SCOTTSBLUFF, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local Legislation current through Ordinance No. 4337, passed 9-3-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 4273
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SCOTTSBLUFF, NEBRASKA RECODIFYING THE GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY, GENERALLY REVISING THE SCOTTSBLUFF MUNICIPAL CODE,
REPEALING PRIOR ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT HEREWITH, PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE
DATE AND PROVIDING FOR PUBLICATION IN PAMPHLET FORM.
Section 1. The City Council of the City of Scottsbluff, Nebraska has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of all ordinances of the City
of Scottsbluff of a general and permanent nature including the Scottsbluff
Municipal Code into a book of ordinances in book form and to be published in
pamphlet form. It is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
City of Scottsbluff and for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the City of Scottsbluff that this
Ordinance take effect as soon as passed by the City Council.
Section 2. The General Ordinances of the City of Scottsbluff as revised,
amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form and published in pamphlet
form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute the Scottsbluff Municipal Code.
Section 3. The Scottsbluff Municipal Code as adopted shall consist of the
following titles:
Chapter 1: Aircraft
Chapter 2: Animals
Chapter 3: Bicycles, skates and skateboards
Chapter 4: Building and Construction
Chapter 5: Cemeteries
Chapter 6: City Government
Chapter 7: Elections
Chapter 8: Fire
Chapter 9: Health
Chapter 10: Library
Chapter 11: Licenses, Occupation Taxes, Regulations
Chapter 12: Nuisances
Chapter 13: Offenses
Chapter 14: Ordinances
Chapter 15: Parks and Recreation
Chapter 16: Police
Chapter 17: Public Transportation
Chapter 18: Sewers
Chapter 19: Solid Waste
Chapter 20: Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks
Chapter 21: Subdivisions
Chapter 22: Traffic
Chapter 23: Water
Chapter 24: Storm Water
Chapter 25: Zoning
Section 4. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Scottsbluff Municipal Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this Ordinance except as they are including and re-ordained
in the Scottsbluff Municipal Code as adopted; provided, such repeal shall not
affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior
to the effective date of this Ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the
provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or
detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to
certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of
bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or
personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land
to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public
places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Scottsbluff Municipal Code.
Section 5. The Scottsbluff Municipal Code shall be deemed published as of the
day of its adoption and approval by the City Council. The Clerk of the City of
Scottsbluff is authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Scottsbluff
Municipal Code in the office of the Clerk and the Clerk is further ordered that
publication shall be in pamphlet form.
Section 6. The Scottsbluff Municipal Code shall be in full force and effect as
provided in Section 7, and the Scottsbluff Municipal Code shall be presumptive
evidence in all courts and places of the Ordinance and all provisions,
sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the date of
passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded, and approved
and that any notices thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 7. This Ordinance shall become effective upon its passage, approval and
shall not be construed to affect any causes of action, civil or criminal,
existing or actions pending at the time this Ordinance becomes effective,
publication shall be in pamphlet form.
PASSED AND APPROVED on January 18, 2022.
Jeanne McKerrigan /s/
Mayor
Attest:   
  Kimberley Wright /s/
City Clerk    (Seal)
Approved as to form:
__________________
City Attorney
CHAPTER 1: AIRCRAFT
   Article
      
1.   AIRCRAFT; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
2.   AIR RAIDS
ARTICLE 1: AIRCRAFT; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-1-1   Flights over city; height; permit
   
1-1-2   Helicopter; permit
   
1-1-3   Same; application; contents
   
1-1-4   Same; decision; time
   
1-1-5   Same; insurance; bond
   
1-1-6   Same; permit; denial
   
1-1-7   Same; permit; contents
   
1-1-8   Same; alternate permit
   
1-1-9   Same; permit; notice
   
1-1-10   Same; permittee; compliance
   
1-1-11   Same; permit; revocation
   
1-1-12   Same; permit; appeal
   
1-1-13   Same; medical uses
   
1-1-14   Stunt flying; prohibited
   
1-1-15   Handbills and other objects; dropping; prohibited
   
1-1-16   Violations; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Aircraft operation, see Neb. RS 18-1508
§ 1-1-1 FLIGHTS OVER CITY; HEIGHT; PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association to:
   (A)   Operate any fixed-wing aircraft, or to cause or permit such an
aircraft to be, over the city at a height of less than 1,000 feet, except when
the aircraft is within a flight pattern authorized by Federal Aviation Agency;
or
   (B)   Operate, without a permit from the City Manager, any helicopter, or to
cause or permit a helicopter to be, over the city at a height of less than
1,000 feet, except when the helicopter is within a flight pattern authorized by
Federal Aviation Authority.
(Ord. 2722, passed - -1982)
§ 1-1-2 HELICOPTER; PERMIT.
   The application for a permit of a type referred to in §
1-1-1 of this article shall be filed with the City Manager on forms provided by
the City Manager. The application shall be filed not less than 14 days before
the date on which the proposed flight or, as the case may be, descent or ascent
is to occur, or before the beginning of a period during which such activities
will occur; provided, the City Manager, where good cause is shown therefor, may
consider an application which has been filed less than 14 days before the
proposed event.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - -1975)
§ 1-1-3 SAME; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   The application for a permit shall set forth:
   (A)   A description of the helicopter;
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner and operator;
   (C)   The date(s) of flight(s), descent(s) or ascent(s), or of the period
(not to exceed one year) during which flight(s), descent(s), and ascent(s) will
occur;
   (D)   The route(s) of the flight(s) and minimum height(s) thereof except
during descent and ascent;
   (E)   If there will be descent(s) or ascent(s), or both, the location(s)
thereof;
   (F)   If an event involving use of a helicopter is being arranged for by
another person or by an association, the name, address, and telephone number of
such person or association and, if the latter, of the person who will be
personally responsible for the conduct of the event; and
   (G)   Such additional information as the City Manager shall find reasonably
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should issue.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - -1975)
§ 1-1-4 SAME; DECISION; TIME.
   The City Manager shall act upon the application for a permit within five
days after the filing thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-5 SAME; INSURANCE; BOND.
   No permit shall issue until the applicant shall:
   (A)   Furnish to the City Manager written evidence that a public liability
insurance policy, in amounts of not less than $200,000 for one person, $500,000
for any one accident, and $50,000 for injuries to property, and including as a
beneficiary the city, shall be in force during, and for 24 hours before and
after the permitted event or, as the case may be, during the period of the
permitted flight(s), descent(s) and ascent(s); and
   (B)   If there will be descents or ascents, or both, deposit with the City
Clerk a surety bond, to be approved by the City Manager, in the sum of $2,500,
or in lieu thereof, cash in that amount, conditioned that no dirt, paper,
litter, or other debris will be permitted to remain upon the tract of land used
for such purpose.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-6 SAME; PERMIT; DENIAL.
   The City Manager shall deny the application if he or she finds that the
proposed flight(s), descent(s), or ascent(s) will create a hazard to the safety
or health of persons or property in the city, cause excessive noise, or
otherwise unreasonably disturb the peace and repose of inhabitants of the city.
If the City Manager denies the application, he or she shall mail or deliver to
the applicant, on the date of the denial, a notice in writing of the denial,
stating the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-7 SAME; PERMIT; CONTENTS.
   Each permit shall state the following:
   (A)   A description of the helicopter;
   (B)   The name of the owner and operator, the name of another person or
association, if any by whom arrangements for an event are being made, and the
name of the person who will be personally responsible for conduct of the event;
   (C)   The flight(s), descent(s), and ascent(s) authorized, including date(s)
or period (not to exceed one year), minimum height(s) and route(s) of flight
(s), and location(s) of descent(s) and ascent(s); and
   (D)   Such other information as the City Manager shall determine to be
necessary or desirable in order to effect compliance with this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-8 SAME; ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   The City Manager, upon denying an application for a permit, shall be
empowered to authorize flight(s), descent(s), and ascent(s) to be held on
dates, at times or places, or on other conditions different from those
specified in the application. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate
permit shall, within 24 hours after notice of the action of the City Manager,
file a written notice of acceptance with the City Manager. An alternate permit
shall conform to the requirements for, and shall have the effect of a permit
under, this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-9 SAME; PERMIT; NOTICE.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a permit, the City Manager shall so inform
the Police Chief and the Fire Chief, and shall so inform the City Council at
its next regular meeting.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-10 SAME; PERMITTEE; COMPLIANCE.
   The person or association to which a permit has been issued shall comply
with all permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and
provisions of this code.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-11 SAME; PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   The City Manager shall have authority to revoke a permit if he or she finds
that the standards for issuance set forth in this article will not, or probably
will not, be substantially met, or that the permittee has willfully or
negligently failed to comply with the requirements of this article in any
substantial respect. The City Manager, on the date of revocation of a permit,
shall deliver or mail to the permittee a notice in writing of the revocation,
stating the reason therefor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-12 SAME; PERMIT; APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial or revocation
of a permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken by filing a notice
thereof with the City Clerk within ten days after the mailing or delivery of
the notice of denial or revocation. The City Council shall act upon the appeal
within ten days after its receipt.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-13 SAME; MEDICAL USES.
   Anything in this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the City Manager,
upon written application of a hospital situated within the city, may issue a
permit for helicopters to operate from time to time over the city at a height
of less than 1,000 feet and elsewhere than within a flight pattern authorized
by Federal Aviation Agency, and to descend to, or ascend from, a designated
area adjacent to the hospital for the purpose of transporting individuals to or
from the hospital for medical treatment. Such a permit shall expire at the end
of the calendar year in which issued, but shall be renewed, without
application, for further periods of 12 months each, unless the City Manager
shall in writing notify the hospital not less than 30 days prior to the
expiration of such a period that the permit will terminate at the end of that
period. The permit shall issue to the hospital, but shall inure, also, to the
benefit of operators of such helicopters, their employees, and co-employees,
and of owners and lessees of such helicopters. The provisions of this article
shall apply to permits issued under this section, except where, in the judgment
of the City Manager, such provisions are inconsistent with this section.
(Ord. 2722, passed - - 1982)
§ 1-1-14 STUNT FLYING; PROHIBITED.
   No person operating any aircraft shall “loop-the-loop,” indulge in “tail
spins” or in any other manner engage in any “stunt flying” or indulge in any
flying or carry out any maneuver more dangerous to person or property than the
ordinary and proper flight of such aircraft over the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2109, passed - - 1975)
§ 1-1-15 HANDBILLS AND OTHER OBJECTS; DROPPING; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drop handbills or any other object while flying over and
above the city.
§ 1-1-16 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this article shall be a Class I violation.
ARTICLE 2: AIR RAIDS
Section
Definitions
   
1-2-1   Generally
   
1-2-2   Air raid drill
   
1-2-3   Air raid period
   
1-2-4   Air raid warning
   
1-2-5   All-clear signal
   
1-2-6   Blackout period
   
1-2-7   Practice blackout
General Provisions
   
1-2-8   Air raid period; acts prohibited during
   
1-2-9   Blackout period; acts prohibited during
   
1-2-10   Practice blackout; acts prohibited during
   
1-2-11   Air raid drill; acts prohibited during
   
1-2-12   Air raids; warnings; all-clear signals
   
1-2-13   Same; protective measures; practice blackouts; air raid drills
   
1-2-14   Rules and regulations; promulgation; enforcement; City Manager; duty
   
1-2-15   Auxiliary officers; appointment; removal
   
1-2-16   Same; Police and Fire Departments; authority
   
1-2-17   Same; orders; obedience; required
   
1-2-18   Lights; restrictions; nuisance; abatement
   
1-2-19   Violations; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Civil defense, see Neb. RS A1-109
DEFINITIONS
§ 1-2-1 GENERALLY.
   Any of the terms defined in subsequent sections of this article has the
meaning, when used in any article of this chapter, which is given the term in
the definition in this article.
§ 1-2-2 AIR RAID DRILL.
   AIR RAID DRILL. The period of time beginning and ending at the times of day
designated in an order, issued by the City Manager, which order may provide
that such air raid drill shall apply to a part, parts, or all of the city.
§ 1-2-3 AIR RAID PERIOD.
   AIR RAID PERIOD. The period of time which begins when an air raid warning is
given pursuant hereto, and ends when an all clear signal is given pursuant
hereto.
§ 1-2-4 AIR RAID WARNING.
   AIR RAID WARNING. The sounding of a public alarm, the type, manner, and
duration of which shall be prescribed by rules and regulations promulgated
pursuant hereto.
§ 1-2-5 ALL-CLEAR SIGNAL.
   ALL-CLEAR SIGNAL. The sounding of a signal different in character from that
of an air raid warning, as prescribed by rules and regulations promulgated
pursuant hereto.
§ 1-2-6 BLACKOUT PERIOD.
   BLACKOUT PERIOD. An air raid period occurring between the hours of sunset
and the following sunrise.
§ 1-2-7 PRACTICE BLACKOUT.
   PRACTICE BLACKOUT. The period of time beginning and ending at the times of
day designated in an order issued by the City Manager, which order may provide
that such practice blackout shall apply to a part, parts, or all of the city.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1-2-8 AIR RAID PERIOD; ACTS PROHIBITED DURING.
   It shall be unlawful during an air raid period to:
   (A)   Operate any vehicle, except that emergency vehicles designated as such
by the City Manager, State of Nebraska, Director of Civil Defense, or proper
authorities of the Armed Forces of the United States, may be operated in
accordance with their granted authority;
   (B)   Congregate in groups of five or more persons on any public way, except
that persons authorized by the City Manager, State of Nebraska, Director of
Civil Defense, or proper authorities of the Armed Forces of the United States,
to perform duties which require their presence out of doors may do so;   
   (C)   Loiter upon any public way;
   (D)   Be present out-of-doors for a period of time longer than five minutes
after the first sounding of an air raid warning, except that persons authorized
by the City Manager, State of Nebraska, Director of Civil Defense, or proper
authorities of the Armed Forces of the United States, to perform duties which
require their presence out-of-doors may do so; or
   (E)   Operate a siren or other device so as to simulate an all-clear signal.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-9 BLACKOUT PERIOD; ACTS PROHIBITED DURING.
   It shall be unlawful during a blackout period to do any act prohibited
during an air raid period, or to display or allow to be displayed or to permit
any light visible from out-of-doors, except such lights as may be prescribed
for emergency vehicles designated as such by the City Manager, State of
Nebraska, Director of Civil Defense, or proper authorities of the Armed Forces
of the United States, and except lights for which a military or paramount
public necessity exist.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-10 PRACTICE BLACKOUT; ACTS PROHIBITED DURING.
   It shall be unlawful during a practice blackout to do any act prohibited
during a blackout period, except that persons may remain in parked vehicles
during such practice blackout.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-11 AIR RAID DRILL; ACTS PROHIBITED DURING.
   It shall be unlawful during an air raid drill to do any act prohibited
during an air raid period, except that persons may remain in parked vehicles
during such an air raid drill.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-12 AIR RAIDS; WARNINGS; ALL-CLEAR SIGNALS.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to provide for the
sounding of air raid warnings and of all-clear signals.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-13 SAME; PROTECTIVE MEASURES; PRACTICE BLACKOUTS; AIR RAID DRILLS.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to carry out air raid
protection measures and practice blackouts and air raid drills at such times as
shall be deemed necessary, expedient, or desirable.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-14 RULES AND REGULATIONS; PROMULGATION; ENFORCEMENT; CITY MANAGER; DUTY.
   The City Manager shall promulgate and cause to be enforced such reasonable
rules and regulations relating to the administration and enforcement of this
article as may be necessary or proper to accomplish the objects and purposes
thereof, which orders, rules, and regulations may be amended, modified, or
revoked at any time, in the manner hereinafter prescribed. All orders, rules,
and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto, and any amendment, modification,
or revocation thereof, shall be in writing and a copy thereof, shall be posted
in the office of the City Clerk, in the police station, and at one or more
other prominent places within the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-15 AUXILIARY OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to appoint, by and with the consent of
the City Council, such auxiliary police and firefighters, air raid wardens,
fire wardens, or other officers as he or she deems necessary or desirable for
the purpose of enforcement and administration of the provisions of this article
and the orders, rules, and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto. Any such
appointment may be revoked by the City Manager at any time, and without the
necessity of showing cause or giving reason for such revocation. Provided, such
appointments or revocations of appointments may be performed by the City
Manager and become effective without the consent of the City Council whenever
an emergency exists; and in such cases, the action of the City Manager shall
remain effective until the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
attended by a majority of the members elected thereto, at which regular or
special meeting, the appointment or revocation of appointment shall either be
ratified or denied by the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-16 SAME; POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS; AUTHORITY.
   All such officers as are appointed pursuant to this article, and all regular
and special members of the Police Department and Fire Department, are hereby
authorized to execute such orders and directions as are reasonably necessary to
the administration of the measures herein provided for; and such officers are
hereby further authorized to arrest any person found violating any of the
provisions of this article or any of the orders, rules, and regulations
promulgated pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-17 SAME; ORDERS; OBEDIENCE; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any
lawful order, command, or direction of any officer appointed pursuant hereto,
or any regular or special member of the Police Department or Fire Department.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-18 LIGHTS; RESTRICTIONS; NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Any light displayed contrary to the provisions of this article or contrary
to any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant hereto, shall constitute
a public nuisance and maybe abated as such.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 1-2-19 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this article shall be a Class I violation.
CHAPTER 2: ANIMALS
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
      
2.   ANIMALS AND FOWL; GENERALLY
      
3.   DOMESTIC ANIMALS
      
4.   DANGEROUS DOGS
      
5.   RELEASE OR DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS
      
6.   RABIES CONTROL
      
7.   KENNELS, BOARDING KENNELS, AND PET SHOPS
      
8.   VIOLATIONS
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
2-1-1   Generally
   
2-1-2   Abandon
   
2-1-2.1   At large
   
2-1-3   Animal
   
2-1-4   Animal control officer
   
2-1-5   Cat
   
2-1-6   Cruel mistreatment
   
2-1-7   Cruel neglect
   
2-1-8   Dog
   
2-1-9   Domestic animal
   
2-1-10   Impounding agency
   
2-1-11   Kennel, boarding kennel, and pet shop
   
2-1-11.1   Mini-pig
   
2-1-12   Own (an animal)
   
2-1-13   Owner (of an animal)
   
2-1-13.1   Stray
   
2-1-14   Vaccination against rabies
   
2-1-15   Valid certificate of rabies vaccination
   
2-1-16   Valid rabies vaccination tag
   
2-1-17   Veterinarian
   
2-1-18   Wild animal or birds
§ 2-1-1 GENERALLY.
   Any of the terms defined in subsequent sections of this article has the
meaning, when used in this chapter, which is given the term in the definition
of this article, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
§ 2-1-2 ABANDON.
   ABANDON. The leaving of an animal by its owner or other person responsible
for its care or custody without making effective provisions for its proper
care.
(Ord. 2915, passed - -1985)
§ 2-1-2.1 AT LARGE.
   AT LARGE. An animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off or away
from the premises of its owner, possessor, or keeper thereof and is neither in
a receptacle, an enclosed vehicle, nor on a leash, cord, or chain.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-1-3 ANIMAL.
   ANIMAL. A domesticated living creature (including a dog or cat) and a wild
living creature previously captured.
§ 2-1-4 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any city police officer or any other city employee
designated by the City Manager to enforce this article.
§ 2-1-5 CAT.
   CAT. Any animal of the species Felis domesticus.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-1-6 CRUEL MISTREATMENT.
   CRUEL MISTREATMENT. Every act or omission which causes, or unreasonably
permits the continuation of, unnecessary or unjustified pain or suffering.
(Ord. 2915, passed - -1985)
§ 2-1-7 CRUEL NEGLECT.
   CRUEL NEGLECT. Failure to provide food, water, protection from the elements,
opportunity to exercise, or other care normal, usual and proper for an animal’s
health and well-being.
(Ord. 2915, passed - -1985)
§ 2-1-8 DOG.
   DOG. Any canine animal, male or female, sexed or neutered.
§ 2-1-9 DOMESTIC ANIMAL.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A dog, cat, or other animal which is not a wild animal as
defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-1-10 IMPOUNDING AGENCY.
   IMPOUNDING AGENCY. Any agency with whom the city has contracted for
impounding services. The term also includes any employee of such agency.
§ 2-1-11 KENNEL, BOARDING KENNEL, AND PET SHOP.
   KENNEL, BOARDING KENNEL, and PET SHOP. Includes any establishment for the
raising, training, boarding, or selling of domestic animals for any purpose,
provided, these terms shall not include the following:
      (1)   An enclosure, residence, or establishment in which no more than
three domestic animals of at least five months of age and their litters are
kept;
      (2)   A pound operated by or under contract with the city; or
      (3)   A licensed veterinary hospital.
(Ord. 3240, passed - -1992)
§ 2-1-11.1 MINI-PIG.
   MINI-PIG. An animal of the species sus scrofa bittatus, commonly known as
the Vietnamese potbellied pig. An animal which is larger than 100 pounds in
weight and/or 22 inches in height is not a MINI-PIG. It is unlawful for any
person to own, keep, or harbor at any time more than one mini-pig per
residential or dwelling unit within the city.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-1-12 OWN (AN ANIMAL).
   OWN. Unless otherwise specified, to possess, keep, harbor, or have control
of, charge of, or custody of an animal. The term shall not apply to animals
owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises of a
veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-1-13 OWNER (OF AN ANIMAL).
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring, or having charge or
control of, or permitting any animal to habitually be or remain on, or be
lodged or fed within, such person’s house, yard, or premises. This term shall
not apply to veterinarians or kennel operators temporarily maintaining on their
premises animals owned by other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-1-13.1 STRAY.
   STRAY. Any domestic animal wandering at large or lost, escaped from its
proper or intended place, with no identifying name tag, rabies tag, microchip,
tattoo, ear tag, brand, or any other form of identification, and therefore, for
which “no owner” is known.
(Ord. 3611, passed - -1999)
§ 2-1-14 VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. Vaccination of a dog by a veterinarian with a
rabies vaccine licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture on the
effective date of this article.
§ 2-1-15 VALID CERTIFICATE OF RABIES VACCINATION.
   VALID CERTIFICATE OF RABIES VACCINATION. A certificate issued by a
veterinarian who has vaccinated a dog against rabies, showing:
      (1)   The owner’s name and address;
      (2)   An adequate description of the dog, including but not limited to,
such items as the dog’s breed, sex, age, name, and distinctive markings;
      (3)   The date of vaccination;
      (4)   The rabies vaccination tag number;
      (5)   The type of rabies vaccine administered; and
      (6)   The manufacturer’s serial number of the vaccine used. Provided, a
certificate of vaccination shall be valid:
         (a)   For purpose of application for a dog license, only if the
vaccination shown in the certificate was with a vaccine that will be effective
during the whole term of the license; or
         (b)   For purposes of avoiding impoundment of a dog, only if the
vaccination shown in the certificate was with a vaccine that still is effective
at the time when the dog is inspected by an officer of the city having
authority to enforce this article.
§ 2-1-16 VALID RABIES VACCINATION TAG.
   VALID RABIES VACCINATION TAG. A metal rabies vaccination tag issued by a
veterinarian showing vaccination of a dog against rabies, if the vaccination
was with a vaccine that still is effective at the time when the dog is
inspected by an officer of the city having authority to enforce this article.
§ 2-1-17 VETERINARIAN.
   VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine
in the state.
§ 2-1-18 WILD ANIMAL OR BIRDS.
   WILD ANIMAL OR BIRDS.
      (1)   Any crows, game animals, fur-bearing animals, game birds, and
upland game birds, as defined in Neb. RS 37-101, as amended, to include any
successor provision to this statute;
      (2)   Any wolf, skunk, or any member of the families Felidae and Ursidae,
except the species Felis domesticus;
      (3)   Any venomous reptiles and snakes;
      (4)   Any African rock pythons, anacondas, reticulated pythons, or
Burmese pythons;
      (5)   Any member of the family crocodylidae or alligatoridae;
      (6)   Any non-human members of the family primata;
      (7)   Any nongame wildlife in need of conservation as determined by the
Nebraska Game and Parks Commission; or
      (8)   Any wildlife determined to be an endangered or threatened species
under the Federal Endangered Species Act of 1973, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1532 et
seq. or any later act or amendment to the Act.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
ARTICLE 2: ANIMALS AND FOWL; GENERALLY
Section
   
2-2-1   Animals; at large; picketing, herding, and pasturing; prohibited;
nuisance
   
2-2-2   Animals; on curb space, sidewalks, and lawns; leading, riding, and
driving; prohibited
   
2-2-3   Cruelty to animals; prohibited
   
2-2-4   Wild bird or animal; captivity prohibited
   
2-2-5   Animal fighting; prohibited
   
2-2-6   Agreements; noncompliance; unlawful
   
2-2-7   Officers; impounded animal; interference; prohibited
   
2-2-8   Emergency destruction of animal
§ 2-2-1 ANIMALS; AT LARGE; PICKETING, HERDING, AND PASTURING; PROHIBITED;
NUISANCE.
   No person owning or having in charge any horse, goat, mule, ass, cattle,
sheep, swine, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guinea fowls, or other domestic
fowl, shall permit the same to run at large within the city. No person owning
or having in charge any horse, goat, mule, ass, cattle, sheep, or swine shall
picket, herd, or pasture or leave unattended the same anywhere within the city.
Any animal or fowl found running at large within the city, or otherwise found
in violation of this section, is hereby declared a nuisance and may be
impounded. Provided, this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
confining of livestock in an enclosure on private grounds for a period not to
exceed 30 days by a person or firm engaged in the business of buying, selling,
and transporting livestock, if the confinement occurs solely as an incident to
such transportation and is within concrete pens, the access to which is solely
over concrete runways, and such pens and runways are washed and kept clean
sufficiently to prevent all avoidable accumulation of manure and refuse and all
avoidable odors. Provided, further, this section shall not be construed to
prohibit the picketing, herding, or pasturing of animals on private grounds
that on September 16, 1963, were being lawfully used for the picketing,
herding, or pasturing of animals of such character, unless such use shall have
been or shall be abandoned for a period of 12 months, in which event the use
shall not be resumed. Provided further, this section shall not be applicable to
mini-pigs, for which separate regulations are made.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-2-2 ANIMALS; ON CURB SPACE, SIDEWALKS, AND LAWNS; LEADING, RIDING, AND
DRIVING; PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to lead, ride, or drive any
horse, goat, mule, ass, cattle, sheep, or swine along, upon, or over any curb
space, sidewalk, or lawn not his or her own in the city, or to suffer any
livestock of any kind owned by him or her under his or her control to go upon
any such curb space, sidewalk, or lawn. Provided, this section shall not be
applicable to mini-pigs, for which separate regulations are made.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-2-3 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit cruelty to animals. A
person commits cruelty to animals if, except as otherwise authorized by law, he
or she intentionally or recklessly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her care or custody to cruel neglect
or abandons such an animal; or
      (3)   Kills or injures any animal owned by or in the care or custody of
another person.
   (B)   Cruelty to animals is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 2715, passed - -1982)
§ 2-2-4 WILD BIRD OR ANIMAL; CAPTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep in captivity within the city any wild animals or
birds. Provided, the following persons are exempt from this section:
      (1)   Any city, state, or federal zoo, park, refuge, or wildlife area;
      (2)   Any bonafide circus or animal exhibit displayed to the public on a
temporary basis;
      (3)   A person possessing or having custody of a sick or injured wild
animal or bird solely for the purpose of transporting the animal to a licensed
veterinarian for care, or to an animal shelter, or to a zoo, or to a state,
federal, or local government official with the authority to handle the animal
or bird;
      (4)   Licensed veterinarians and incorporated animal or bird shelters
caring for injured or sick wild animals or birds supplying emergency temporary
shelter and care;
      (5)   Any “research facility” within the meaning of Section 2(e) of the
Federal Animal Welfare Act, being 7 U.S.C. § 2132(e), or any amendment or
successor provision, licensed by the Secretary of the United States Department
of Agriculture pursuant to that Act;
      (6)   The Nebraska Game and Parks Commission and any agent or official of
that Department acting in his or her official capacity;
      (7)   Any agency or official of the United States government acting in
his or her official capacity;
      (8)   State colleges and universities or any other agency of the state
working with wildlife;
      (9)   A wildlife rehabilitator who holds state and federal permits; or
      (10)   Any person legally holding in captivity any wild bird or animal
within the city as of the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Any wild animal or bird found within the city limits in violation of
this section is hereby declared a nuisance and may be impounded.
   (C)   Violation of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-2-5 ANIMAL FIGHTING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city to set dogs,
other animals, or fowls to fighting by agreement, or otherwise, or in any
manner to urge forward or encourage the same.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1935, passed - -1972)
§ 2-2-6 AGREEMENTS; NONCOMPLIANCE; UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or negligently to fail to
comply, in whole or in part, with the terms of any written agreement with the
city which the person shall have signed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1935, passed - -1972)
§ 2-2-7 OFFICERS; IMPOUNDED ANIMAL; INTERFERENCE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the performance of the
official duties of officers authorized to enforce this chapter, or for any
unauthorized person to release, remove, or injure, or attempt to release,
remove, or injure any animal which has been impounded, or to attempt to do so.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1935, passed - -1972)
§ 2-2-8 EMERGENCY DESTRUCTION OF ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any animal which is found at large in the city and is behaving in such
a manner as to constitute an immediate threat to the safety of a human being
may be immediately destroyed by an animal control officer.
   (B)   Any animal which is found at large in the city and is so sick or
injured that, in the judgment of an animal control officer, human compassion
requires that the suffering be promptly ended, may be destroyed by an animal
control officer. Before such animal is destroyed, the animal control officer
shall make a reasonable effort to identify and notify the owner of the animal.
   (C)   The destruction of an animal pursuant to this section shall be
accomplished in such a manner as to cause the animal a minimum of pain and
suffering. Prudent use of firearms to accomplish the destruction of an animal
pursuant to the authority of this section shall not be considered a violation
of the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 3522, passed - -1997)
ARTICLE 3: DOMESTIC ANIMALS
Section
Licenses
   
2-3-1   License; license tax; vaccination; required; exceptions
   
2-3-2   Applications, requests, and filing; taxes, fees, and payment;
remittance; licenses, issuance; reports
   
2-3-3   Same; license tax
   
2-3-4   License and vaccination tags; attaching
   
2-3-5   Same; loss; replacement
   
2-3-6    – 2-3-8Reserved
General Provisions
   
2-3-9   Dogs and mini-pigs; at large; prohibited
   
2-3-10   Dogs; cats; mini-pigs; nuisance; when; impoundment
   
2-3-11   Domestic animals; noise and sanitary dispositions of feces
   
2-3-12   Cats; regulations; generally
   
2-3-13   Mini-pigs; spaying or neutering
   
2-3-14   Mini-pigs; dangerous; other provisions applicable
LICENSES
§ 2-3-1 LICENSE; LICENSE TAX; VACCINATION; REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own in the city a mini-pig that
is seven months of age or older, or a dog or cat that is four months of age or
older without:
      (1)   Having procured a license therefor and paid a license tax thereon
as provided in this chapter;
      (2)   In the case of a dog, having procured vaccination of the dog
against rabies as provided in this chapter; and
      (3)   In the case of a mini-pig, having procured the spaying or neutering
of the animal.
   (B)   Provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to any animal
owned by a person temporarily remaining within the state for less than 30 days,
to any dog brought into the state for field trial or show purposes, to any dog
brought into the state for hunting purposes for a period of less than 30 days,
or to animals assigned to a research institution or similar facility.
(Ord. 3567, passed - -1997)
§ 2-3-2 APPLICATIONS, REQUESTS, AND FILING; TAXES, FEES, AND PAYMENT;
REMITTANCE; LICENSES AND ISSUANCE; REPORTS.
   (A)   All applications for an animal license shall be made at the office of
the City Clerk and shall be accompanied by a valid certificate that the
requirements of §
2-3-1 of this article have been met. All license taxes and fees payable under
this chapter shall be paid to the City Clerk, unless the city shall have
contracted with a private agency to render such services for and on behalf of
the city. In the latter event, all such applications and requests shall be
made, and all such taxes and fees shall be paid, to such agency, acting for and
on behalf of the city; and the agency may issue such licenses, using forms
supplied by the City Clerk, in the name and on behalf of the city. Upon
issuance of the license, the applicant shall be given a receipt for the amount
of the license tax and given appropriate metal tag or plate signifying that the
license has been issued.
   (B)   All taxes and fees so received and licenses issued by such agency
shall be reported, on a form provided by the City Clerk, and all such taxes and
fees shall be remitted, to the City Clerk within the period of time prescribed
in the agreement between the city and the agency or, if no applicable period of
time has been prescribed in such agreement, within seven days after the end of
the calendar month in which the taxes and fees shall have been received by the
agency.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-3-3 SAME; LICENSE TAX.
   The amount of the license tax shall be as provided in Chapter 6, Article 6
of this code. License tax period for animals required to be licensed under the
provisions of this chapter shall expire on the last day of the month one year
from the month of issuance, and shall become delinquent on the first day of the
following month. Within ten days after a mini-pig becomes seven months, or a
dog or cat becomes four months of age, the license tax shall be due. Provided,
such tax shall not be payable on animals while kept in dog kennels or pet shops
that are subject to, and have paid, the occupation tax on dog kennels or, as
the case may be, pet shops as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 3567, passed - -1997)
§ 2-3-4 LICENSE AND VACCINATION TAGS; ATTACHING.
   The owner of any animal licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall attach to the collar or harness of the animal, in a manner that is
permanent and such that the tags can readily be seen by an officer of the city
having authority to enforce this chapter, the metal tag issued upon payment of
the license tax and a valid vaccination tag.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-3-5 SAME; LOSS; REPLACEMENT.
   Upon satisfactory showing made by the owner or harborer of any animal that
the original license tag or plate has been lost, and upon payment of the fee
specified in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code, the City Clerk shall issue a
duplicate or new tag or plate for the balance of the year for which the tax has
been paid.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§§ 2-3-6 – 2-3-8 RESERVED.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 2-3-9 DOGS AND MINI-PIGS; AT LARGE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or mini-pig, whether the dog
or mini-pig is harbored within or outside the corporate limits of the city, to
cause or permit the dog or mini-pig to be or remain within the corporate
limits, except while within an enclosure, secured by tying, or on a leash;
provided, this requirement shall not apply to a dog or mini-pig while the dog
or mini-pig is on premises occupied by the owner or harborer of the dog or
mini-pig.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-3-10 DOGS; CATS; MINI-PIGS; NUISANCE; WHEN; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog, cat or mini-pig:
      (1)   (a)   Found outside premises occupied by the owner or harborer of
the animal without a license tag or plate attached as required in this article,
or in the case of a dog, without a valid rabies vaccination tag attached as
required in this chapter, and the owner of which does not possess a valid
rabies vaccination certificate in respect of the animal; or
         (b)   Which damages, soils, defiles, or defecates on private property
other than that of the owner of the animal; damages, soils, defiles, or
defecates on a public park or other public place, except a street or alley;
causes unsanitary, dangerous, or offensive conditions; or molests, attacks, or
interferes with persons or animals, or chases vehicles, on any public street,
alley, or other public place, or any private property other than that of the
owner of the animal, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance; provided,
division (A)(1)(a) above shall not apply to animals that are exempt from the
requirements of this article.
      (2)   In addition, any dog or mini-pig:
         (a)   Which is neither confined within an enclosure, nor secured by
tying, nor on a leash as required in this article; or
         (b)   Which by frequent or long continued making of noise, barking,
whining, or squealing, disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any dog, cat, or mini-pig which is a public nuisance as deemed in this
chapter may be impounded. Provided, however, that if the nuisance is of the
type described in division (A)(2)(b) above, the dog or mini-pig may be
impounded only if another complaint of such a nuisance on the premises was
recorded in, and the existence of such earlier claimed nuisance was confirmed
in writing by an investigating officer of the Police Department within the
immediately preceding 12-month period.
   (C)   The remedy provided in this section shall be cumulative, and not in
lieu, of the remedies provided elsewhere in this code.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-3-11 DOMESTIC ANIMALS; NOISE AND SANITARY DISPOSITION OF FECES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own within the corporate limits
of the city any domestic animal that causes noise continually to the
disturbance of the peace of the neighborhood.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person having control of any
animal to fail to remove and sanitarily dispose of feces or defecation
deposited by said animal on any public park, street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public property, or on any private property other than that of the owner of the
animal.
(Ord. 3488, passed - -1996)
§ 2-3-12 CATS; REGULATIONS; GENERALLY.
   Except for §§
2-3-9 and
2-3-10 in this article, all of those provisions of this chapter shall apply to
cats, and those provisions applicable to owners of dogs shall also apply to
owners of cats, unless such provision is clearly inapplicable to cats.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-3-13 MINI-PIGS; SPAYING OR NEUTERING.
   Every mini-pig owned, kept, or harbored within the city shall be spayed or
neutered within 30 days after attaining the age of six months.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
§ 2-3-14 MINI-PIGS; DANGEROUS; OTHER PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   All of the provisions of
Chapter 2, Article 4 dealing with dangerous dogs shall apply to mini-pigs and
those provisions of said chapter and article applicable to owners of dogs shall
also apply to owners of mini-pigs, unless such provision is clearly
inapplicable to mini-pigs.
(Ord. 3461, passed - -1995)
ARTICLE 4: DANGEROUS DOGS
Section
   
2-4-1   Definitions
   
2-4-2   Identification by city; notice; procedure to dispute
   
2-4-3   Restraint required
   
2-4-4   Confinement required; warning sign
   
2-4-4.1   Microchip
   
2-4-5   Prohibited acts
   
2-4-6   Confiscation; when; costs
   
2-4-7   Disposal by court order
   
2-4-8   Violation; destruction of dog
§ 2-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   Wherever used in this article, the following terms shall have the following
meaning:
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog which meets one of the following criteria:
      (1)   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of dog
fighting;
      (2)   Is trained for dog fighting;
      (3)   According to the records of the city has:
         (a)   Killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public or
private property;
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog was
off the owner’s property; or
         (c)   Been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by
the city in accordance with procedures established elsewhere in this article
and the owner has received notice of such determination and such dog again
aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic
animals.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a dog shall not be defined as a
DANGEROUS DOG:
         (a)   If the threat, any injury that is not a severe injury, or the
damage was sustained by
a person who:
            1.   At the time, was committing a willful trespass as defined in
the state statutes or any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog;
            2.   At the time was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog;
            3.   Who has in the past been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog; or
            4.   At the time was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         (b)   If the dog is a trained dog assisting a police officer engaged
in law enforcement duties.
   MICROCHIP or MICROCHIPPED. The device or implantation of the device,
authorized by, and generally accepted by, the veterinary community, to be
permanently implanted in the dog, allowing for permanent identification of the
dog and the dog’s owner, via scanning and reading of the microchip through the
dog’s skin, and hair or fur.
   OWNER. In addition to the definition given the word elsewhere in this
chapter, shall include a person temporarily in possession of the dog at the
request of the owner of the dog as shown on any microchip.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked inflicts a non-severe injury on a
human or injures a domestic animal either on public or private property or
chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any private grounds
other than where the dog resides, or any public grounds in a menacing fashion
or apparent attitude of attack; or
      (2) Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more broken bones or
that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Ord. 3580, passed - -1998; Ord. 3972, passed - -2008)
§ 2-4-2 IDENTIFICATION BY CITY; NOTICE; PROCEDURE TO DISPUTE.
   (A)   A determination that a specific dog is a potentially dangerous dog
shall be made by the Deputy City Attorney who is principally charged with the
responsibility of filing complaints against persons charged with the violation
of any ordinance of the city. The owner of the dog shall be given written
notice of such determination. Such written notice shall inform the owner that
if the dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans
or domestic animals, the city may determine the dog to be a dangerous dog and
require it to be restrained as provided in this code.
   (B)   The city may, in its discretion, determine that any dog which
satisfies the definition of a dangerous dog as defined elsewhere in this
article, or any dog which has been determined to be potentially dangerous and
such dog again aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the safety of humans
or domestic animals is a dangerous dog. Such determination shall be made by the
Deputy City Attorney who is principally charged with the responsibility of
filing complaints against persons charged with the violation of any ordinance
of the city. The owner of the dog shall be given written notice of such
determination. The notice shall be in writing and shall inform the owner that:
      (1)   The dog has been determined to be dangerous;
      (2)   Such dog is required to be restrained and confined as described in
this article;
      (3)   If the owner disputes the identification of the dog as a dangerous
dog, he or she may submit a written request for a hearing to the City Manager
within five working days after receipt of the written notification; and
      (4)   If no such hearing is requested that the identification of the dog
as a dangerous dog shall be final and not subject to further review.
   (C)   The timely request for a hearing under this section shall stay the
determination of the dog as a dangerous dog until a final decision is made by
the City Manager. The hearing shall be held before the City Manager. The burden
of going forward with the evidence shall be on the city to demonstrate that the
dog meets one of the criteria defined in this section. After such hearing, the
City Manager shall have the authority to affirm, reverse, or modify the
identification of the dog as a dangerous dog. The failure of the owner to
request such a hearing shall result in the dog being declared a dangerous dog.
(Ord. 3580, passed - -1998)
§ 2-4-3 RESTRAINT REQUIRED.
   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless such dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain
having a minimum tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in
length.
(Ord. 3267, passed - -1993)
§ 2-4-4 CONFINEMENT REQUIRED; WARNING SIGN.
   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be securely
confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen
or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young children and to
prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have secure sides and
a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides shall be embedded into the ground. The pen or structure shall also
protect the dog from the elements. The owner of a dangerous dog shall post a
warning sign on the property where the dog is kept that is clearly visible and
that informs persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
(Ord. 3267, passed - -1993)
§ 2-4-4.1 MICROCHIP.
   The owner, must as soon as reasonably possible, but no later than 14 days
after the designation or confirmation of the dangerous dog designation, have
the dog microchipped with an approved device, as defined by this article. If
the dog has been seized or impounded, the owner must arrange for the dog to be
microchipped before or at the time of release from custody of animal control
officer. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number of
the microchip must be provided to the animal control authority. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the Panhandle
Humane Society or a qualified veterinarian under the direction of the Panhandle
Humane Society or the animal control officer. In any case, all costs related to
implantation of the microchip must be borne by the dog’s owner and must be paid
before the dog shall be released from impound.
(Ord. 3972, passed - -2008)
§ 2-4-5 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Own or harbor any dog for the purpose of dog fighting, or train,
torment, badger, bait, or use any dog for the purpose of causing or encouraging
that dog to unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic animals; or
   (B)   Possess with intent to sell, offer for sale, breed, or buy or attempt
to buy, within the city any dangerous dog.
(Ord. 3267, passed - -1993)
§ 2-4-6 CONFISCATION; WHEN; COSTS.
   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of this article. Any dangerous dog may
also be confiscated if, within two weeks immediately preceding the date of
confiscation, it was observed in a condition when it was not properly confined
or restrained as provided in this article. The owner shall be responsible for
the reasonable costs incurred by the city for the care of a dangerous dog
confiscated by an animal control officer or for the destruction of any
dangerous dog if the action by the city is pursuant to law and if the owner
violated this article. Any such dog shall be retained by the city pending the
order of an appropriate court.
(Ord. 3267, passed - -1993)
§ 2-4-7 DISPOSAL BY COURT ORDER.
   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the city to dispose of a
dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Ord. 3267, passed - -1993)
§ 2-4-8 VIOLATIONS; DESTRUCTION OF DOG.
   The violation of any provision of this article is a Class I violation.
Provided, that any person violating this article for the first time shall be
required to pay a mandatory minimum fine of $500 upon conviction. Any second or
subsequent violation by the same person shall also require a mandatory minimum
fine of $500. If the person convicted has been previously convicted of a
violation of this article, or of any comparable city ordinance or municipal
code provision in effect prior to the adoption of this article, then, in
addition to any mandatory minimum fine, the dog involved in the subsequent
violation shall be immediately confiscated by the city, and thereafter
destroyed in a humane and expeditious manner.
(Ord. 3267, passed - -1993; Ord. 3972, passed - -2008)
ARTICLE 5: RELEASE OR DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS
Section
   
2-5-1   Impoundment; by whom; notice
   
2-5-2   Release of animal from impoundment
   
2-5-3   Same; fees; amount; determination
   
2-5-4   Same; dog; certificate of vaccination; agreement
   
2-5-5   Wild animal or bird
   
2-5-6   Disposition of impounded animals
   
2-5-7   Same; sale
   
2-5-8   Destruction of sick or injured animals
§ 2-5-1 IMPOUNDMENT; BY WHOM; NOTICE.
   When an animal is authorized to be impounded by any provision of this code,
the impoundment may be carried out by any animal control officer, or by any
employee of an impounding agency. Notice of impoundment of any animal, which
shall note any significant marks of identification, shall be posted in a
conspicuous public place at the pound as public notice of impoundment.
§ 2-5-2 RELEASE OF ANIMAL FROM IMPOUNDMENT.
   The owner of an animal impounded as provided in this chapter, except as
otherwise provided this chapter, may claim and recover possession of the animal
upon compliance with the requirements of this article within three days after
commencement of the impoundment. A fee shall be paid before the release of the
animal.
§ 2-5-3 SAME; FEES; AMOUNT; DETERMINATION.
   The City Council shall establish by resolution or ordinance the amount of a
fee to be paid prior to release of an animal to the owner or harborer thereof.
Such fee may be either a single amount, plus a per diem amount for each day, or
part thereof, during which the animal remains impounded or, alternatively, only
a per diem amount for each such day, or part thereof.
(Ord. 2897, passed - -1985)
§ 2-5-4 SAME; DOG; CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION; AGREEMENT.
   In the case of a dog, if a valid certificate of rabies vaccination of the
animal shall not be exhibited to the impounding agency, the dog shall not be
released to the owner, unless the owner shall also sign an agreement with the
city that such person will procure vaccination of the dog within 72 hours after
release of the dog from impoundment, and will submit to the impounding agency,
within seven days after release of the animal, from impoundment a valid
certificate of such vaccination.
(Ord. 2715, passed - -1982)
§ 2-5-5 WILD ANIMAL OR BIRD.
   A wild animal or bird which has been impounded shall not be released to the
owner unless the owner can furnish evidence that the owner holds any permit
required by the state for keeping wild birds and animals in captivity, and can
provide assurance that the wild animals or bird will not remain or be kept
within the city.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-5-6 DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   If the owner does not comply with all the requirements of this article
within the time specified in this article, then the animal shall be deemed an
abandoned or stray animal, and the animal shall become the property of the
city. Thereafter, if the city shall have contracted with the impounding agency
for disposition of such animals, the animal shall be disposed of by such agency
in accordance with the provisions of the contract between the city and the
agency, which contract shall include a requirement that the agency take
effective steps, to be specified in the contract, to accomplish the vaccination
of any dog or cat, not vaccinated against rabies, which is to be released by
the agency. Otherwise, the animal may be destroyed, released to an institution
for research purposes, adopted, or sold.
(Ord. 3611, passed - -1999)
§ 2-5-7 SAME; SALE.
   Any animal impounded pursuant to this chapter maybe sold. If a sale is to
take place, the notice of impoundment required by this chapter shall also
include the time and place of the sale which shall be posted not less than five
days nor more than ten days from the date of the notice. The animal shall be
sold at auction to the highest bidder. The proceeds of the sale shall first be
applied to all impoundment fees and costs of the sale with the balance paid to
the City Treasurer within three days of the sale. The owner of any animal sold
shall be entitled to the surplus proceeds paid to the City Treasurer upon
making satisfactory proof of ownership within one year from the date of the
sale. If no claim is made within this time, the City Treasurer shall transfer
the proceeds to the General Fund.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-5-8 DESTRUCTION OF SICK OR INJURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   If an animal arrives at the impounding agency in such a sick or
injured condition that, in the judgment of an animal control officer, agents of
the impounding agency, or a licensed veterinarian, human compassion requires
that the suffering be promptly ended, the animal may be immediately destroyed.
Before such animal is destroyed, the animal control officer shall make a
reasonable effort to identify and notify the owner of the animal.
   (B)   The destruction of an animal pursuant to this section shall be
accomplished in such a manner as to cause the animal a minimum of pain and
suffering. Prudent use of firearms to accomplish the destruction of an animal
pursuant to the authority of this section shall not be considered a violation
of the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 3522, passed - -1997)
ARTICLE 6: RABIES CONTROL
Section
   
2-6-1   Dog suspected of rabies; confinement; fees; release; destruction
   
2-6-2   Dog bitten by rabid animal; confinement; release; destruction
   
2-6-3   Rabies; suspected animal; confinement; notification of police
   
2-6-4   Same; observation; laboratory; tests; report
§ 2-6-1 DOG SUSPECTED OF RABIES; CONFINEMENT; FEES; RELEASE; DESTRUCTION.
   Any dog suspected by an animal control officer of being afflicted with
rabies, or any dog that has bitten any person, causing an abrasion of the skin
of the person, and for which a valid certificate or rabies vaccination is not
exhibited, shall be impounded by such officer, under the supervision of a
veterinarian or of a public health authority designated by the City Manager,
provided, if after diligent inquiry for a period of 24 hours, ownership of such
dog or a valid certificate of rabies vaccination cannot be determined, such
officer may cause such dog to be destroyed. Any dog that has bitten any person,
causing an abrasion of the skin of the person, but for which a valid
certificate of rabies vaccination is exhibited, shall be confined by the owner
or some other responsible person, as required by any officer authorized to
enforce this article, for a period of not less than ten days. At the expiration
of such period, the dog shall be examined by a veterinarian. If no symptoms of
rabies then are observed by the veterinarian, the dog, upon payment of fees and
charges and, as the case may be, execution of an agreement as provided in this
section, may be released; otherwise, the dog shall be destroyed. Fees shall be
paid and, if the dog has not been licensed or a valid certificate of rabies
vaccination is not exhibited, the person to whom the dog is to be released
shall enter into an agreement with the city as provided in this chapter with
respect to impounded dogs generally. In addition, such person shall either
exhibit to the City Clerk a receipt from the veterinarian of payment in full of
the charges of the veterinarian for his or her services in examining the dog,
or pay to the City Clerk an amount equal to the reasonable value of such
services as determined by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2695, passed - -1981)
§ 2-6-2 DOG BITTEN BY RABID ANIMAL; CONFINEMENT; RELEASE; DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   If a dog is known to have been bitten by a rabid animal, and a valid
certificate of vaccination of the dog against rabies is not exhibited, the dog
shall be destroyed unless the owner agrees in writing with the city to confine
the dog in strict isolation in a kennel under veterinary supervision for a
period of not less than six months. If a valid certificate of vaccination of
the dog against rabies is exhibited, the dog nevertheless shall be destroyed:
      (1)   Unless the dog is immediately revaccinated, a valid certificate of
revaccination is exhibited, and the owner agrees in writing with the city
immediately to confine the dog for a period of not less than 30 days following
the revaccination; or
      (2)   If the dog is not immediately revaccinated and a valid certificate
of revaccination immediately exhibited, unless the owner agrees in writing with
the city immediately to confine the dog in strict isolation in a kennel under
veterinary supervision for a period of not less than six months.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an agreement entered into as
provided in this section, the dog shall be destroyed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1935, passed - -1972)
§ 2-6-3 RABIES; SUSPECTED ANIMAL; CONFINEMENT; NOTIFICATION OF POLICE.
   Any person owning or having the charge of, or observing any animal which he
or she shall know or suspect to be affected with the disease of rabies shall
immediately confine such animal, if this can be done with reasonable safety,
and shall at once give notice to an animal control officer of the whereabouts
of such animal, and the reasons for believing it to be affected with rabies.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 2-6-4 SAME; OBSERVATION; LABORATORY; TESTS; REPORT.
   Any animal suspected of having rabies shall be confined and kept under
proper care and observation, and shall not be released until 14 days shall have
elapsed from the beginning of such confinement. If such animal dies, suspected
of having rabies, the City Manager or a city employee designated by the City
Manager shall cause the head of such animal to be severed promptly and encased
in a tight container, which container shall be packed in ice in such a manner
that the ice shall not enter such container, and shall be sent to the
Laboratory of the State Health Department at Lincoln, Nebraska, for examination
and report.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
ARTICLE 7: KENNELS, BOARDING KENNELS, AND PET SHOPS
Section
   
2-7-1   License; required
   
2-7-2   Application; certificate of occupancy
   
2-7-3   License term; occupation tax
   
2-7-4   Regulations
   
2-7-5   Inspection
   
2-7-6   License revocation
   
2-7-7   Violation; classification
§ 2-7-1 LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a kennel, boarding kennel, or pet shop
within the city unless the operator holds a valid license for that purpose.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-7-2 APPLICATION; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   An application for a license to operate a kennel, boarding kennel, or pet
shop shall be made to the City Clerk. The application shall include the name of
the operator, the location of the facility, the kind or breed, and number of
domestic animals to be kept in the case of a kennel, the capacity of the
facility in the case of a boarding kennel, and any additional information as
may be required by the City Clerk. No license shall be issued unless a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Planning and Building Official
which authorizes the intended use of the premises.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-7-3 LICENSE TERM; OCCUPATION TAX.
   All licenses shall remain in effect, unless revoked until the following
April 30. Prior to issuing or renewing a license, the City Clerk shall collect
an occupation tax as provided in
Chapter 11, Article 2 of this code. If there is no occupation tax category for
“kennels” or “boarding kennels” in
Chapter 11, Article 2 of this code, then the occupation tax charged for “dog
kennels” shall apply.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-7-4 REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations are established for the operation of
kennels, boarding kennels, and pet shops:
   (A)   All domestic animals shall be kept clean and sanitary and in good
physical condition at all times;
   (B)   All domestic animals shall be securely confined or on a leash;
   (C)   All facilities used for these purposes shall be kept in clean and
sanitary condition and shall be free of decaying food and filth of any kind.
Fresh food and water shall be provided daily;
   (D)   All kennels or confinement areas shall be cleaned and disinfected
prior to placing a new or additional domestic animal into the kennel or
confinement area and at least daily thereafter. The disinfectant shall be
viricidal to distemper and parvo viruses; and
   (E)   In addition to the above requirements, all facilities shall comply
with the regulations promulgated by the Secretary of the United States
Department of Agriculture under the Federal Animal Welfare Act concerning
“Specifications for the Humane Handling, Care, Treatment, and Transportation of
Dogs and Cats”, 9 C.F.R. part 3 (subpart A), including amendments or any
successor sections to these regulations.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-7-5 INSPECTION.
   All city officials with powers to enforce this article shall have the right
to enter any premises licensed or used as a kennel, boarding kennel, or pet
shop for the purpose of conducting inspections and enforcing this article. In
the event that a violation of this article is determined, all animals on the
premises are subject to impoundment.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-7-6 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Any license issued for kennel, boarding kennel, or pet shop may be revoked
by the Planning and Building Official whenever it is determined that the
licensee is operating in violation of this article. The licensee shall have the
right to appeal the revocation to the Board of Adjustment in the same manner as
provided for appeals of decisions of the Planning and Building Official.
(Ord. 3184, passed - -1991)
§ 2-7-7 VIOLATION; CLASSIFICATION.
   The violation of any provision of this article is a Class I violation.
ARTICLE 8: VIOLATIONS
Section
   
2-8-1   Violation; classification
§ 2-8-1 VIOLATION; CLASSIFICATION.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter which is not otherwise
classified is a Class II violation, Skates, and Skateboards
CHAPTER 3: BICYCLES, SKATES, AND SKATEBOARDS
   Article
      
1.   BICYCLE REGISTRATION
      
2.   BICYCLE EQUIPMENT AND OPERATION
      
3.   SKATES AND SKATEBOARDS
      
4.   MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS
      
5.   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES
ARTICLE 1: BICYCLE REGISTRATION
Section
   
3-1-1   Definitions
   
3-1-2   Unregistered bicycles; operation prohibited
   
3-1-3   Registration; application; fee
   
3-1-4   Registration certificate; when issuable
   
3-1-5   Registration; inspection; Police Chief
   
3-1-6   Registration certificate; period effective
   
3-1-7   Registration plate; attaching
   
3-1-8   Records; Police Chief; duty
   
3-1-9   Registration plate; display; operation without; prohibited
   
3-1-10   Registered bicycle; transfer; report; registration; registration
plates; transfer; application
   
3-1-11   Serial number, registration plate, and police number; removal;
destruction; alteration; prohibited
   
3-1-12   Bicycle rental agencies; bicycle registration and registration plates;
required
   
3-1-13   Violations; penalty
§ 3-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in this article, the terms defined in this section shall have
the following meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled solely by human power, upon which any person
may ride, and having two tandem wheels either of which is more than 14 inches
in diameter.
   POLICE CHIEF. The Chief of Police or any city employee designated by the
Police Chief to perform the functions described in this article.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 3-1-2 UNREGISTERED BICYCLES; OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle upon any street or
public way within the city without first having registered the bicycle as
provided in this article.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 3-1-3 REGISTRATION; APPLICATION; FEE.
   Application for registration of any bicycle shall be made by the owner in
writing to the Police Chief on forms furnished by the city. The application
shall include the name of the applicant, the applicant’s address, a description
of the bicycle, and any other information as the Police Chief may require.
Before the issuance of a registration certificate and number plates, the
applicant shall pay to the Police Chief the fee provided in Chapter 6, Article
6 of this code.
(Ord. 3340, passed - -1994)
§ 3-1-4 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE; WHEN ISSUABLE.
   The Police Chief shall issue a registration certificate for a bicycle when
such bicycle satisfactorily complies with the inspection test hereafter
provided for, and upon the payment of the required registration fee.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-1-5 REGISTRATION; INSPECTION; POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief shall inspect each bicycle presented to him or her for
registration, and shall refuse to issue a registration certificate and number
plate for any bicycle found to be in an unsafe mechanical condition.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-1-6 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE; PERIOD EFFECTIVE.
   All registration certificates and number plates issued hereunder shall be
effective as long as the owner owns the bicycle, provided, registration
certificates and number plates may be issued for a lesser period of time if
requested by the owner or if the Police Chief determines the circumstances
warrant a shorter registration period.
(Ord. 3968, passed - -2008)
§ 3-1-7 REGISTRATION PLATE; ATTACHING.
   The city shall provide a registration number plate corresponding to the
number appearing on the registration certificate, which registration plate
shall be attached to the bicycle under the supervision of the Police Chief and
shall remain attached thereto for as long as the owner owns the bicycle.
(Ord. 3968, passed - -2008)
§ 3-1-8 RECORDS; POLICE CHIEF; DUTY.
   The Police Chief shall keep a record of all fees collected for the issuance
of registration certificates, the date of issuance thereof, to whom issued, the
number thereof, a description of the bicycle, the manufacturer’s serial number
on the bicycle frame, and the Police Department serial number stamped on such
frame.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-1-9 REGISTRATION PLATE; DISPLAY; OPERATION WITHOUT; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle upon any street or
public way without having the registration number plate issued therefor under
the direction of the Police Chief, displayed upon the frame of such bicycle so
as to be plainly visible.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-1-10 REGISTERED BICYCLE; TRANSFER; REPORT; REGISTRATION; REGISTRATION
PLATES; TRANSFER; APPLICATION.
   It shall be the duty of any person who sells or transfers ownership of any
registered bicycle to report, within five days from the date of sale or
transfer, such sale or transfer by returning to the Police Chief the
registration certificate therefor, together with the name and address of the
person to whom such bicycle was sold or transferred. It shall be the duty of
the purchaser or transferee of such bicycle to apply for a new registration
therefor within five days of sale or transfer.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-1-11 SERIAL NUMBER, REGISTRATION PLATE, AND POLICE NUMBER; REMOVAL;
DESTRUCTION; ALTERATION; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously remove,
destroy, mutilate, or alter the manufacturer’s serial frame number of any
bicycle registered pursuant to the provisions hereof, or any registration
number plate during the period when such registration is operative.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1458, passed 3-9-1964)
§ 3-1-12 BICYCLE RENTAL AGENCIES; BICYCLE REGISTRATION AND REGISTRATION PLATES;
REQUIRED.
   A rental agency shall not offer any bicycle for rent unless such bicycle
shall first have been registered and the registration number plate attached
thereto as hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-1-13 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. In
addition, a person convicted of any provision of this article may be ordered to
surrender the number plate for his or her bicycle to the Police Chief for a
period of not to exceed six months, or be ordered to surrender their bicycle to
the Police Chief for impounding for a period of not to exceed six months.
Provided, in the event of an apparent violation of §
3-1-9 of this article by a person under 12 years of age who has not been
convicted, and not received a written warning, of a violation of any provision
of this chapter during the preceding 12 months, such person shall not be
subject to prosecution for such apparent violation but the Police Chief shall,
instead, issue to such person a written warning and mail a copy thereof to the
parents or guardian of such person at their last known address.
(Ord. 3968, passed - -2008)
ARTICLE 2: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT AND OPERATION
Section
   
3-2-1   Bicycle; brakes
   
3-2-2   Bicycles; lights and reflectors
   
3-2-3   Bicycle rental agencies; bicycles; safety equipment; good condition;
required
   
3-2-4   Operation; on certain sidewalks; prohibited
   
3-2-5   Same; limitation; prohibition
   
3-2-6   Same; on streets
   
3-2-7   Sidewalks; parks; pedestrians; presumption of negligence
   
3-2-8   Riding abreast; restrictions
   
3-2-9   Entering sidewalk and street; right-of-way
   
3-2-10   Parking; restrictions; requirements
   
3-2-11   Riders; number; position; restrictions
   
3-2-12   Holding to moving vehicle; prohibited
   
3-2-13   Packages, bundles, and articles; restrictions
   
3-2-14   General traffic regulations; applicability
   
3-2-15   Violations; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle operation, see Neb. RS 60-6,315 et seq.
   Bicycle equipment, see Neb. RS 60-6,318 and 60-6,319
§ 3-2-1 BICYCLE; BRAKES.
   Any bicycle operated on the streets and public ways of the city shall be
equipped with a brake or brakes which will enable the operator to stop the
bicycle within 25 feet of the point of braking when moving at a speed of ten
mph on dry, level, and clean pavement.
(Ord. 3340, passed - -1994)
§ 3-2-2 BICYCLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS.
   No person shall operate any bicycle upon the streets or public ways of the
city from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless the
bicycle is equipped with a light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet
to the front on a clear night, and with a red reflector, of not less than one-
half inch in diameter, which is visible on a clear night from all distances
between 100 feet and 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
lower beams on a motor vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet
to the rear may be used in addition to the required red reflector.
(Ord. 3340, passed - -1994)
§ 3-2-3 BICYCLE RENTAL AGENCIES; BICYCLES; SAFETY EQUIPMENT; GOOD CONDITION;
REQUIRED.
   Bicycles offered for rent by a rental agency shall be equipped by such
agency with lights and other safety equipment as is required by this article,
and shall be kept in good and safe working order.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-2-4 OPERATION; ON CERTAIN SIDEWALKS; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate any bicycle on a public sidewalk situated in whole
or in part within the area bounded by Railway Street on the south, 20th Street
on the north, 2nd Avenue on the east and Avenue B on the west.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 3-2-5 SAME; LIMITATION; PROHIBITION.
   The City Council, whenever it shall determine by resolution that the public
safety, convenience, or welfare requires, may limit or entirely prohibit the
operation of bicycles upon any public sidewalk within the city, or within any
area of the city designated in the resolution. The operation of a bicycle on a
designated sidewalk shall constitute a violation of this article.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 3-2-6 SAME; ON STREETS.
   Any person operating a bicycle on any street or public way shall ride as
near to the curb on the right side of the street or public way as is
practicable, and shall exercise due care when passing any vehicle.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 3-2-7 SIDEWALKS; PARKS; PEDESTRIANS; PRESUMPTION OF NEGLIGENCE.
   Any person operating a bicycle upon a public sidewalk or within a park shall
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians, shall announce his or her presence
before passing a pedestrian, and shall exercise due care when passing a
pedestrian. Any person operating a bicycle upon a public sidewalk or within a
park when involved in a collision with a pedestrian, shall be rebuttedly
presumed to have been negligent.
(Ord. 3447, passed - -1995)
§ 3-2-8 RIDING ABREAST; RESTRICTIONS.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a street or roadway or within Monument Valley
Pathways shall not ride more than two abreast.
(Ord. 3447, passed - -1995)
§ 3-2-9 ENTERING SIDEWALK AND STREET; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on such
sidewalk or sidewalk area; and, upon entering any street or roadway, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such street or roadway.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-2-10 PARKING; RESTRICTIONS; REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall park a bicycle on the street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public way in such a position as to interfere with the safety of movement of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. When parked upon a sidewalk, the bicycle shall
be parked within four feet of the curb. Where a public bicycle rack containing
parking space is situated within 100 feet, the bicycle shall be parked in such
rack.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1458, passed 3-9-1964)
§ 3-2-11 RIDERS; NUMBER; POSITION; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride on a bicycle unless
such bicycle is constructed to carry the number of persons to be conveyed. No
person shall ride in front of the operator.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-2-12 HOLDING TO MOVING VEHICLE; PROHIBITED.
   No person riding a bicycle shall take hold of, or hold onto, any vehicle in
motion.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-2-13 PACKAGES, BUNDLES, AND ARTICLES; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person riding a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article which
prevents the rider from keeping both hands upon the handle bars.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-2-14 GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   All stop signs, light signals, and other general traffic regulations shall
apply to bicycle operators as well as operators of other vehicles.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 3-2-15 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. In
addition, a person convicted of any provision of this article may be ordered to
surrender the number plate for his or her bicycle to the Police Chief for a
period of not to exceed six months, or be ordered to surrender his or her
bicycle to the Police Chief for impounding for a period of not to exceed six
months. Provided, in the event of an apparent violation of this article by a
person under 12 years of age who has not been convicted, and not received a
written warning, of a violation of any provision of this chapter during the
preceding 12 months, such person shall not be subject to prosecution for such
apparent violation but the Police Chief shall, instead, issue to such person a
written warning and mail a copy thereof to the parents or guardian of such
person at their last known address.
(Ord. 3427, passed - -1995)
ARTICLE 3: SKATES AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
   
3-3-1   Skates
   
3-3-2   Skateboard
   
3-3-3   Operation; on streets prohibited
   
3-3-4   Same; on certain sidewalks; prohibited; exceptions
   
3-3-4.1   Same; on property of Scottsbluff School District; prohibited
   
3-3-5   Sidewalks; parks; pedestrians; presumption of negligence
   
3-3-6   Violations; penalty
§ 3-3-1 SKATES.
   The term SKATES shall mean any device worn on the feet or shoes which has
one or more wheels attached and which is propelled solely by human power.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 3-3-2 SKATEBOARD.
   The term SKATEBOARD shall mean a single platform mounted on wheels, which is
propelled solely by human power and which has no mechanism or other device with
which to steer or to control the movement or direction of the platform.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 3-3-3 OPERATION; ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   Skates and skateboards shall not be operated on the streets of the city
except for the purpose of crossing a street within a crosswalk or designated
street crossing area. The rules relating to pedestrians crossing streets shall
apply to persons crossing streets on skates or a skateboard.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 3-3-4 SAME; ON CERTAIN SIDEWALKS; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall operate skates or a skateboard on a public sidewalk or city-
owned or operated parking lot situated in whole or in part within the area
bounded by Railway Street on the south, 20th Street on the north, 2nd Avenue on
the east and Avenue B on the west. Provided, however, that skates or
skateboards may be operated on public parking lots in connection with a
business promotion event for which a permit has been issued as provided
elsewhere in this code.
(Ord. 3436, passed - -1995)
§ 3-3-4.1 SAME; ON PROPERTY OF SCOTTSBLUFF SCHOOL DISTRICT; PROHIBITED.
   The Mayor and the City Council find that:
   (A)   The Scottsbluff School District has requested the City Council to
regulate and prohibit by ordinance the operation of skates and skateboards on
school property;
   (B)   Such areas are within the city, or owned or under the control of the
Scottsbluff School District, and are semi-public places;
   (C)   Such property is adjacent to school buildings owned or under the
control of Scottsbluff School District; and
   (D)   No person shall operate skates or a skateboard upon any property of
the Scottsbluff School District.
(Ord. 3588, passed - -1998)
§ 3-3-5 SIDEWALKS; PARKS; PEDESTRIANS; PRESUMPTION OF NEGLIGENCE.
   Any person operating skates or a skateboard upon a public sidewalk or within
a park shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians, shall announce his or her
presence before passing a pedestrian, and shall exercise due care when passing
a pedestrian. Any person operating skates or a skateboard upon a public
sidewalk or within a park when involved in a collision with a pedestrian, shall
be rebuttably presumed to have been negligent.
(Ord. 3447, passed - -1995)
§ 3-3-6 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. In
addition, a person convicted of any provision of this article may be ordered to
surrender his or her skates or skateboard to the Police Chief for impounding
for a period of not to exceed six months. Provided, in the case of an apparent
violation of any provision of the article by a person under 12 years of age who
has neither been convicted nor received a warning of a violation of any
provision of this chapter during the preceding 12 months, a written warning
shall be issued and a copy shall be mailed to the parents or guardians of the
apparent violator at their last known address.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
ARTICLE 4: MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS
Section
   
3-4-1   Motorized skateboard
   
3-4-2   Operation; where prohibited
   
3-4-3   Violation; penalty
§ 3-4-1 MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD.
   A MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD shall mean any device consisting of a deck or riding
surface of any design upon which a person may stand or sit, having any number
of wheels, and is propelled by any type of motorized power, which is capable of
traveling more than 15 mph, including any hover board, goped, pocket
motorcycle, motorized skateboard, motorized scooter, and the like. Provided,
however, that a device designed and used for the transport of disabled persons
shall not be considered a motorized skateboard within the meaning of this
article, and an ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE as defined by § 3-
5-1 of this chapter shall not be considered a motorized skateboard within the
meaning of this article.
(Ord. 4048, passed - -2011; Ord. 4181, passed - -2016)
§ 3-4-2 OPERATION; WHERE PROHIBITED.
   Motorized skateboards shall not be operated:
   (A)   On any public street and alley in the city;
   (B)   On any public sidewalk or city-owned parking lot described in §
3-3-4 of this chapter;
   (C)   In any city park or roadway within a park;
   (D)   On any pedestrian or bicycle pathway; or
   (E)   On any public or private property when notice against trespass is
given as defined in §
13-2-9(A)(2) of this code.
(Ord. 4181, passed - -2016)
§ 3-4-3 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. In
addition, a person convicted of any provision of this article may be ordered to
surrender his or her motorized skateboard to the Chief of Police for impounding
for a period not to exceed six months.
(Ord. 3668, passed - -2001)
ARTICLE 5: ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES
Section
   
3-5-1   Defined
   
3-5-2   Exception from certain requirements
   
3-5-3   Operation; restrictions
   
3-5-4   Operation at night time; equipment required
   
3-5-5   Violations; penalty
§ 3-5-1 DEFINED.
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE shall mean a self-balancing,
two-non tandem-wheeled device, designed to transport only one person and
containing an electric propulsion system with an average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower, whose maximum speed on a paved level surface, when powered
solely by such a propulsion system and while being ridden by an operator who
weighs 170 pounds, is less than 20 mph.
(Ord. 4048, passed - -2011)
§ 3-5-2 EXCEPTION FROM CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An electric personal assistive mobility device may be operated within
the city on the streets, alleys, highway, or sidewalk, except that such
electric personal assistive mobility devices may not be operated on any part of
the Monument Valley Pathways or where bicycles are prohibited from being
operated pursuant to
Chapter 3, Article 2 of this title.
   (B)   All electric personal assistive mobility devices must be registered
with the Police Department. An application for registration shall be made by
the owner in writing to the Police Department on forms furnished by the Police
Department. The application shall include the name of the applicant, the
applicant’s address, a description of the electric personal assistive mobility
device, and any other information as the Police Department may require. Before
the issuance of a registration certificate and number plates, the applicant
shall pay to the Police Department the fee as provided in Chapter 6, Article 6
of this code. The Police Department shall issue a registration certificate for
an electric personal assistive mobility device when such device satisfactorily
complies with the inspection test provided for, and upon payment of the
required registration fee. The Police Department shall inspect each electric
personal assistive mobility device for registration, and shall refuse to issue
a registration certificate and number plate for any electric personal assistive
mobility device found to be in unsafe mechanical condition. All registration
certificates and number plates issued shall be effective as long as the owner
owns the electric personal assistive mobility device, provided the certificates
and number plates may be issued for a lesser period of time if requested by the
owner, or if the Police Department determines the circumstances warrant a
shorter registration period.
   (C)   The Police Department may provide a registration number plate
corresponding to the number appearing on the registration certificate, which
number plate shall be attached to the electric personal assistive mobility
device under the supervision of the Police Department, and shall remain
attached to the electric personal assistive mobility device for as long as the
owner owns the device. The records shall be kept by the Police Department
reflecting all fees collected for the issuance of registration certificates and
date of issuance, to whom issued, the number thereof, a description of the
electric personal assistive mobility device, and the manufacturer’s serial
number on the device.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an electric personal
assistive mobility device upon any street or public way without having a
registration number plate issued therefor under the direction of the Police
Department displayed upon the frame of such electric personal assistive
mobility device to be plainly visible.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of any person who sells or transfers ownership of
any electric personal assistive mobility device to report within five days of
the date of sale or transfer such sale or transfer by returning to the Police
Department the registration certificate therefor, together with the name and
address of the person to whom such electric personal assistive mobility device
was sold or transferred. It shall be the duty of a purchaser or transferee of
such electric personal assistive mobility device to apply for a new
registration within five days of the sale or transfer.
(Ord. 4048, passed - -2011)
§ 3-5-3 OPERATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person who operates an electric personal assistive mobility device
on the streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public ways of the city shall comply
with the same provisions as operators of bicycles pursuant to §§
3-2-2 and
3-2-4 through
3-2-14 of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device
must wear a helmet in compliance with Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282.
   (C)   Every operator shall comply with Neb. RS 60-6,142 in regard to driving
on the shoulders of highways.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to stand, ride, or be
carried upon an electric personal assistive mobility device while being
operated within the city.
   (E)   Any person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device
upon a sidewalk or within a sidewalk space shall do so at their own risk.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to operate an electric personal assistive
mobility device within the city carelessly or without due caution so as to
endanger a person or property.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 16 years of age to operate
an electric personal assistive mobility device within the city, except
individuals 14 years of age or older may operate an electric personal assistive
mobility device if such operation is part of a tour group that has been
approved by the City Manager. Records of approved tour groups shall be kept at
City Hall and available for inspection during regular business hours.
   (H)   An electric personal assistive mobility device, its owner, and its
operator, shall be entitled to the exemptions as provided for by Neb. RS 60-
6,375, as the same presently exists.
(Ord. 4048, passed - -2011)
§ 3-5-4 OPERATION AT NIGHT TIME; EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   When in use at nighttime, an electric personal assistive mobility device or
the operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall be
equipped with a light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front
on a clear night, and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which is
visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to such red reflector.
(Ord. 4048, passed - -2011)
§ 3-5-5 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provisions of this article shall be punishable as
provided in §
6-7-1 of this code as a Class II violation.
(Ord. 4048, passed - -2011)
CHAPTER 4: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
   Article
      
1.   CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE; GENERALLY
      
2.   ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION
      
3.   PLUMBING AND HEATING
      
4.   PUBLIC SERVICE EQUIPMENT
      
5.   TELEVISION AND RADIO ANTENNA SYSTEMS
      
6.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
      
7.   FAIR HOUSING
      
8.   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
      
9.   SATELLITE EARTH STATIONS
      
10.   MOBILE HOMES
ARTICLE 1: CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE; GENERALLY
Section
   
4-1-1   Code Administrator II
   
4-1-1.1   Geographical applicability
   
4-1-2   Standard codes; adopted; exceptions
   
4-1-3   Same; definitions; generally
   
4-1-4   Same; basic code defined
   
4-1-5   Same; building official defined
   
4-1-6   Same; corporation counsel defined
   
4-1-7   Same; Department of Building Inspection defined
   
4-1-8   Same; municipality defined
   
4-1-9   Restriction of employees
   
4-1-10   International Building Codes; portions excluded
   
4-1-10.1   International Residential Code; portions excluded
   
4-1-11   International Building Code; continuation of existing uses and
structures
   
4-1-12   Same; wood frame construction
   
4-1-13   Same; sign; bond
   
4-1-14   Same; demolition; removal; lot regulation
   
4-1-15   Same; signs; inspection
   
4-1-16   Same; bond
   
4-1-17   International Residential Code; garage; accessory building
   
4-1-18   Finished grade
   
4-1-19   Fire limits; established
   
4-1-20   Entries; notices; orders
   
4-1-21   Building Code; variances
   
4-1-22   Same; fees
   
4-1-23   Permit; subdivision of land
   
4-1-24   Permits; fees; required
   
4-1-25   Same; fees; amount
   
4-1-26   Same; application for solid waste containers
   
4-1-27   Same; fees; refund; new permit
   
4-1-28   Same; fees; estimated cost; defined
   
4-1-29   Same; completion of work
   
4-1-30   Violations; penalties
   
4-1-31   Permit; failure to request; notice; delinquent fee
   
4-1-32   Building contractor; defined
   
4-1-33   Registration; required
   
4-1-34   Registration; procedure
   
4-1-35   Notice to applicant or building contractor; how given
   
4-1-36   Regulations; orders; compliance; required
   
4-1-37   Registration; revocation; procedure
   
4-1-38   Appeal
   
4-1-39   Violation; penalty
Statutory reference:
   City regulation of construction, see Neb. RS 16-234
   Adoption of standard codes by reference, see Neb. RS 18-132 et seq.
§ 4-1-1 CODE ADMINISTRATOR II.
   The City Manager is authorized to designate an employee of the city as Code
Administrator II. If no employee is so designated, the functions of the Code
Administrator II as described in this code shall be performed by the
Development Services Director.
(Ord. 3690, passed - -2001)
§ 4-1-1.1 GEOGRAPHICAL APPLICABILITY.
   All provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all areas within which
the city has exercised its zoning jurisdiction pursuant to Chapter 25 of this
code.
(Ord. 3791, passed - -2004)
§ 4-1-2 STANDARD CODES; ADOPTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following standard building codes are adopted for the purposes of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal,
demolition, equipment, use, occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings
and structures, including permits and penalties:
      (1)   The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, published by the
International Code Council. Reference to “International Building Code”
throughout this code shall mean this code;
      (2)   The International Residential Code 1 & 2 Family Dwellings, 2018
Edition, including Appendix F, published by the International Code Council.
Reference to the “International Residential Code” throughout this code shall
mean this code; and
      (3)   The International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition, adopted
by the Nebraska Legislature as the “Nebraska Energy Code”.
   (B)   The International Building Code, International Residential Code 1 & 2
Family Dwellings, and the International Energy Conservation Code, 2018 Edition,
are described collectively as “the Building Code”. Except for those portions
specifically excluded or modified by this or other sections of this code, the
Building Code is adopted in this section by reference and shall be controlling
with respect to the construction of all buildings and structures within the
corporate limits of the city and within the area with respect to which the city
has exercised its zoning jurisdiction under
Chapter 25 of this code. One copy of each code shall be on file in the City
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 4207, passed - -2017; Ord. 4251, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 4285, passed 9-19-
2022)
§ 4-1-3 SAME; DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   Wherever the following words or terms are used in any of the standard codes
comprised in the Building Code, they shall be deemed to mean as follows.
§ 4-1-4 SAME; BASIC CODE DEFINED.
   BASIC CODE. The International Building Code.
(Ord. 3162, passed - -1990; Ord. 3690, passed - -2001)
§ 4-1-5 SAME; BUILDING OFFICIAL DEFINED.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Code Administrator II.
(Ord. 2892, passed - -1984; Ord. 3690, passed - -2001)
§ 4-1-6 SAME; CORPORATION COUNSEL DEFINED.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney or Deputy City Attorney.
§ 4-1-7 SAME; DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING INSPECTION DEFINED.
   DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING INSPECTION. The Department of Development Services.
(Ord. 3534, passed - -1997)
§ 4-1-8 SAME; MUNICIPALITY DEFINED.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Scottsbluff.
§ 4-1-9 RESTRICTION OF EMPLOYEES.
   An official or employee connected with the Department of Development
Services shall not be engaged in or directly or indirectly connected with the
furnishing of labor, materials, or appliances for the construction, alteration,
or maintenance of a building, or the preparation of plans or specifications,
within the city’s zoning jurisdiction, unless he or she is the owner of the
building; nor shall such officer or employee engage in any work which conflicts
with his or her official duties or with the interests of the department.
(Ord. 3690, passed - -2001)
§ 4-1-10 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODES; PORTIONS EXCLUDED.
   Sections 101.4.1, 101.4.2. 101.4.3, 101.4.4, 101.4.6, 101.4.7, 105.1.1,
105.1.2, 105.2, 109, 110, 112, 113, 115, 3103, and Chapters 13, 27, 28, 29 and
30 of the 2018 International Building Code are excluded and not adopted by this
municipal code.
(Ord. 4207, passed - -2017; Ord. 4251, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 4271, passed 1-3-
2022; Ord. 4285, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 4-1-10.1 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE; PORTIONS EXCLUDED.
   Sections 105.2, 107, 112, 113, 309.5, 313, and Chapter 2904 Fire Sprinkler
System, and Chapters 11 through 42, which are the energy, plumbing, mechanical
and electrical sections, of the 2018 International Residential Code are
excluded from the Building Code and are not considered as adopted by this code.
(Ord. 4207, passed - -2017; Ord. 4251, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 4-1-11 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE; CONTINUATION OF EXISTING USES AND
STRUCTURES.
   The date “June 3, 1975” shall be considered as inserted in the blank in
Section 3412.2 of the International Building Code.
(Ord. 4207, passed - -2017)
§ 4-1-12 SAME; WOOD FRAME CONSTRUCTION.
   Table 1505.1 B of the International Building Code shall be considered as
amended to read as follows: “Table 1505.1 B. Type 5B construction: Buildings
and structures of Type 5B construction with a fire separation of not less than
ten (10) feet from the leading edge of the roof”.
(Ord. 3606, passed - -1999; Ord. 3690, passed - -2001; Ord. 3796, passed - -
2004)
§ 4-1-13 SAME; SIGN; BOND.
   Appendix H, Chapter H-105.2, “Construction Documents” of the International
Building Code shall be considered as amended to read as follows: “Appendix H,
Chapter H-105.2, ‘Construction Documents’: No person shall erect, install,
remove or rehang any sign for which a permit is required under the provisions
of the International Building Code until an approved bond shall have been filed
in the sum of $5,000.00 as herein required”.
(Ord. 3503, passed - -1996; Ord. 3690, passed - -2001)
§ 4-1-14 SAME; DEMOLITION; REMOVAL; LOT REGULATION.
   Section 3303.4 of the International Building Code shall be considered as
amended to read as follows:
“3303.4 Lot regulation: Whenever a structure is demolished or removed, the
premises shall be maintained free from all unsafe or hazardous conditions by
the proper regulation of the lot, restoration of established grades and the
erection of the necessary retaining walls and fences in accordance with the
provisions of Article 30. All footings and foundations of the demolished or
removed structure shall be removed from the site”.
§ 4-1-15 SAME; SIGNS; INSPECTION.
   Section 3107.1 of the International Building Code shall be considered as
amended to read as follows:
“3107.1 Inspections: Every sign shall be inspected and approved by the building
official. Every electrical illuminated sign shall be inspected on the ground
before the sign is installed. Every electrical illuminated sign shall comply
with Article 600 of the National Electrical Code”.
(Ord. 3503, passed - -1996; Ord. 3690, passed - -2001; Ord. 3796, passed - -
2004)
§ 4-1-16 SAME; BOND.
   No person shall remove or demolish any structure for which a permit is
required under the provisions of the International Building Code until an
approved bond shall have been filed in the sum of $5,000.
(Ord. 3162, passed - -1990; Ord. 3690, passed - -2001)
§ 4-1-17 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE; GARAGE; ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   Section R-309.2 of the International Residential Code shall be considered as
amended to read as follows: “R-309.2. Separation Required. The garage shall be
completely separated from the residence and its attic area by one-half (1/2)
inch gypsum board or equivalent applied to the garage side. If a detached
accessory building is separate, and is more than five (5) but less than ten
(10) feet distant, from the main dwelling structure, measured from building
lines, one-half (1/2) inch gypsum board or equivalent shall be applied on the
entire interior wall of the main dwelling structure. The one-half (1/2) inch
gypsum board or equivalent shall cover the interior wall from exterior to
exterior wall sheeting and from floor to under exterior roof sheeting”.
(Ord. 3606, passed - -1999; Ord. 3690, passed - -2001)
§ 4-1-18 FINISHED GRADE.
   The finished grade from the curb line to any wall facing the street shall be
not less than one-quarter inch above the curb grade for every foot the wall is
set back from the curb line. The curb grade shall be determined by the City
Manager or the designee of the City Manager upon an application for a building
permit.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2409, passed - -1978)
§ 4-1-19 FIRE LIMITS; ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following areas are hereby declared to be within the fire limits
of the city:
Platted Areas
Platted Areas
Broadway Addition     All of Blocks 1, 2
City Addition         All of Blocks 1, 2
First Addition        All of Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
Fourth Addition       Lots 16 - 28 of Block 1
Kenesaw Addition      All of Block 1
Kelley-Brester Replat Lots 1 - 3 of Block 1
Main Street Addition  Lots 1 - 24
McClanahan’s AdditioAll of Block 1
North Scottsbluff     W 1/2 of Blocks 23, 29, 36; all of Blocks 20, 21, 22, 30,
                      35
Original Town         All of Blocks 1 - 15
Railway Subdivision   All of Block 1
Rueb Subdivision      Lots 1 - 3
Rheault Subdivision   Lots 1 - 3
Second Addition       All of Blocks A, B, C, D, E
Seventh Addition      All of Blocks 1, 2, 3, 4, A
Sixth Addition        All of Blocks 4, 5
South Side Addition   All of Blocks 1, 2
Sunset Addition       All of Block 1
TCI Addition          All of Block 1
Third Addition        Lots 5 to 12 of Block 3; Lots 5 to 8 of Block 4; all of
                      Blocks 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
Tri-State Addition    All of Blocks 1, 2, 3
Water Shop Addition   All of Block 1
Unplatted Areas
NE 1/4 Section 26     Tax Lots 1, 2, 13, 14, 14A, 14B, 19A, 19B, 19C, 19D, 19E
                      That portion of BN & SF Railway right-of-way that lies
                      north and west of an intersection of an easterly
NE 1/4 Section 26     extension of the north boundary of the E 12th Street
                      right-of-way and the east boundary of said BN & SF
                      Railroad right-of- way
                      That portion of BN & SF Railway right-of-way that lies
SW 1/4 Section 23     south and east of the SE corner of Lot 9, Block 1,
                      Country Club View Addition
                      That portion of BN & SF Railway right-of-way that lies
SE 1/4 Section 23     north and west of an intersection of the south boundary
                      line of said quarter section and east boundary of said BN
                      & SF Railway right-of-way
 
   (B)   Each of the foregoing descriptions, together with the introductory
clause and the applicable column and other headings in this section, shall
constitute a separate and distinct section of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2409, passed - -1978; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 4-1-20 ENTRIES; NOTICES; ORDERS.
   The Planning and Building Official and the Code Administrator II, or his or
her deputy, in the discharge of their official duties and upon proper
identification, shall have authority to enter any building, structure, or
premises at any reasonable hour. To enforce compliance with law, to remove
illegal or unsafe conditions, and to secure the necessary exit facilities in
buildings and structures, the Official or Administrator shall issue such
notices or orders as may be necessary.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2565, passed - -1980; Ord. 3796, passed - -
2004)
§ 4-1-21 BUILDING CODE; VARIANCES.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Planning and Building Official or
the Chief Building Inspector may apply to the Building, Fire Codes Exception
Board for a variation of the application of any provision of the Building Code
to the particular case. The application shall be in writing, shall specify the
variation sought, and shall be signed by the applicant. The Board, upon such
application and after a public hearing pursuant to such notice as the Board
shall specify, may vary the application of any provision of the Building Code
to the particular case when, in its opinion, the enforcement thereof would do
manifest injustice, and would be contrary to the spirit and purpose of the
Building Code or public interest. A decision of the Board to vary the
application of any provision of the Building Code shall specify in what manner
the variation is made, the conditions upon which it is made, and the reasons
therefor.
(Ord. 3062, passed - -1987)
§ 4-1-22 SAME; FEES.
   Any person applying for a variation of the application of any provision of
the Building Code shall, at the time of submitting the application to the
Planning and Building Official, pay to the Planning and Building Official a fee
equal to one-half of the original building permit application filing fee,
provided, the minimum fee shall be $20. Provided, further, no such fee shall be
payable if the application is made by the city pursuant to a motion of the City
Council.
(Ord. 3006, passed - -1986)
§ 4-1-23 PERMIT; SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   No permit shall be issued for the construction or alteration of a building
or structure on a tract of land which has not been subdivided in accordance
with state law and applicable subdivision ordinances of the city, and no permit
shall be issued for the removal of a building or structure from one tract of
land to another or to a new location on the same tract of land, unless the
tract to which the building or structure is proposed to be moved or (in the
event of a proposal to remove a building or structure to a new location on the
same tract), unless such tract shall have been subdivided in accordance with
state law and applicable sections of this code.
(Ord. 2409, passed - -1978)
§ 4-1-24 PERMITS; FEES; REQUIRED.
   No permit required by the Building Code nor any permit required by the Fire
Prevention Code as that term is defined in
Chapter 8 of this code shall be issued until the fee prescribed in this code
shall have been paid, nor shall an amendment be approved until the additional
fee, if any, payable because of an increase in the estimated cost of the
building or structure shall have been paid; provided, the Planning and Building
Official may waive payment of the fee required for a demolition permit in event
the building or structure shall have been condemned or ordered demolished.
(Ord. 3506, passed - -1996)
§ 4-1-25 SAME; FEES; AMOUNT.
   (A)   The fees for permits required by the Building Code and Fire Prevention
Code shall be as provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
   (B)   The Planning and Building Official annually in January shall determine
the average cost per square foot of construction of residential, business,
commercial, and industrial units, and such cost shall be deemed to constitute
during the 12 ensuing calendar months the cost of construction of such units
for purposes of computing the fee for a permit to construct such units, unless
the applicant shall submit evidence, satisfactory to the Planning and Building
Official that the actual cost of construction of the unit(s) for which a permit
is sought will be less than the amount determined by the Official in January of
that calendar year.
(Ord. 3506, passed - -1996)
§ 4-1-26 SAME; APPLICATION FOR SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS.
   In addition to the other requirements prescribed in this article, no permit
required by the Building Code shall be issued until the contractor shall have
submitted to the Planning and Building Official an application for solid waste
container(s) in accordance with the requirements in
Chapter 19 of this code.
(Ord. 2704, passed - -1981)
§ 4-1-27 SAME; FEES; REFUND; NEW PERMIT.
   In case of abandonment or discontinuance, the cost of work performed under a
permit may be estimated, an adjustment of the fee made and the portion of the
fee for uncompleted work returned to the permit holder; provided, no refund of
a prescribed minimum fee shall be made. If such discontinuance is due to a
revocation of permit, a similar adjustment and return may be made; provided, no
refund shall be made until all penalties incurred or imposed by due authority
have been collected. After such a refund has been made, no work shall be
resumed until a new application has been made and a new permit has been issued.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2409, passed - -1978)
§ 4-1-28 SAME; FEES; ESTIMATED COST; DEFINED.
   The term ESTIMATED COST, as used in this article means the reasonable value
of all services, labor, materials, and use of scaffolding and other appliances
or devices entering into and necessary to the prosecution and completion of the
work ready for occupancy; provided, the cost of excavating or grading, and of
painting, decorating or other work that is merely for embellishment or not
necessary for the safe and lawful use of the building or structure shall not be
deemed to be a part of such estimated cost.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2409, passed - -1978)
§ 4-1-29 SAME; COMPLETION OF WORK.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all work authorized
under a permit granted under the Building Code shall be completed within two
years after the work has commenced.
   (B)   Work of the following types shall be completed within the following
period of time after the work has commenced:
      (1)   Construction or repair of a single-family residence: one year;
      (2)   Construction or repair of detached private garage: six months;
      (3)   Moving of building from original foundation to new foundation: six
months; provided, the building shall be permanently attached to the new
foundation within three months after its removal from the original foundation;
and
      (4)   Demolition of any building or structure: three months.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2409, passed - -1978)
§ 4-1-30 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A violation of any provision of this article, including the standard codes
adopted thereby, and a violation of with any lawful permit, order, or notice
made or given thereunder, is a Class II violation. Each day that a violation or
noncompliance shall continue after notification by the Planning and Building
Official shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2409, passed - -1978)
§ 4-1-31 PERMIT; FAILURE TO REQUEST; NOTICE; DELINQUENT FEE.
   In the event the Planning and Building Official shall determine that
construction for which a prior permit was required by this article has occurred
without an application therefor in the form required by this article having
been filed with the Official, the Official shall in writing notify the owner(s)
and, if the building or structure is in the possession of or occupied by
another, shall also notify the latter, of such determination, and that such
person(s) shall, within 14 days after service of such notice, file with the
Official the required application and pay to the Official the fee required,
under preceding sections of this article, to be paid in connection with such an
application, together with a delinquent fee in the amount provided in Chapter
6, Article 6 of this code. The Official shall cause such notice to be sent
either personally or by certified mail addressed to the last known residence
address of the person(s) upon whom the notice is to be sent; and service by
such mail shall be complete upon deposit of the envelope containing the notice
in the United States Post Office.
(Ord. 3006, passed - -1986)
§ 4-1-32 BUILDING CONTRACTOR, DEFINED.
   The term BUILDING CONTRACTOR as used in this chapter means an individual or
other legal entity engaged in the business of contracting with an owner or with
another building contractor to provide labor for the construction, alteration,
repair, or improvement of buildings or other structures, including sidewalks
and streets. An employee of a building contractor who does not directly
contract with an owner or another building contractor is not a building
contractor within this definition.
§ 4-1-33 REGISTRATION; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to engage in the business of a building
contractor within the city or its zoning jurisdiction without having first
registered with the city as required by this chapter.
§ 4-1-34 REGISTRATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Manager or the city employee designated by the City Manager
may register building contractors to do business in the city or its zoning
jurisdiction. Before registering a contractor, the City Manager or his or her
designee may require the applicant to:
      (1)   Furnish references;
      (2)   Describe the general nature of the work the applicant proposes to
do;
      (3)   Describe the applicant’s experience;
      (4)   Identify the employees of the applicant;
      (5)   Describe any liability insurance insuring the applicant (such
insurance is not required);
      (6)   Describe whether a license to conduct business as a building
contractor has been revoked or suspended by any other jurisdiction, and if so,
to fully describe the circumstances; and
      (7)   State the applicant’s business and residence addresses, and phone
numbers, including cell phones if any.
   (B)   Upon the applicant’s furnishing the required information and paying
the fee described in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code, the applicant shall be
registered unless the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager
articulates written reasons why, for reasons associated with the competence or
integrity of the applicant, it is not in the best interest of the city that
applicant be registered. The applicant shall either be registered or shall be
sent a written explanation why the applicant will not be registered within 14
days after the date of application.
   (C)   Such registration will be valid for one calendar year after the date
of issuance, after which time it will expire without further notice to the
registrant. Upon application for renewal of such registration, the applicant
will advise the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager in writing if
any statement in the original application is no longer accurate.
§ 4-1-35 NOTICE TO APPLICANT OR BUILDING CONTRACTOR; HOW GIVEN.
   In the event of a change of address, the City Planner shall be notified in
writing of such change. Any notice required by this chapter to be sent to an
applicant or building contractor shall be properly given if sent by regular
U.S. mail to the address shown on the application, or, in the event the City
Planner has been given written notice of a change of address, to such changed
address. Notice may also be given in any other manner reasonably calculated to
give the recipient of the notice actual knowledge of its contents.
§ 4-1-36 REGULATIONS; ORDERS; COMPLIANCE; REQUIRED.
   All building contractors shall comply with all applicable provisions of this
code and all building codes adopted by this code, and shall comply with all
lawful orders given by employees of the city. All building contractors shall be
responsible to insure that their employees comply with the provisions of this
section.
§ 4-1-37 REGISTRATION; REVOCATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any registration issued granted to a building contractor maybe revoked
by the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager in writing upon a
showing of good cause after notice and a hearing.
   (B)   Good cause for revocation shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Falsification of information on the application for registration;
and
      (2)   Any improper construction practice that endangers life or property.
§ 4-1-38 APPEAL.
   If registration is denied or revoked by a designee of the City Manager, the
applicant may appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of appeal with the
City Clerk within 14 days. The City Manager, after an appropriate hearing in
which the Nebraska Rules of Evidence shall not apply, may affirm or reverse the
decision denying or revoking the registration. The hearing shall be de novo.
Evidence shall not be restricted to the evidence presented to the designee, and
the City Manager shall owe no deference to the decision of the designee. If
registration was denied or revoked by the City Manager, any appeal shall be to
an appropriate court.
§ 4-1-39 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who falsifies information on an application for a building
contractor registration, or who violates any provision of this §§
4-1-32 through
4-1-36 of this article shall be guilty of a Class II violation.
ARTICLE 2: ELECTRICAL CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
4-2-1   Definitions; generally
   
4-2-2   Same; area of city jurisdiction defined
   
4-2-3   Same; electrical code defined
   
4-2-4   Same; electrical equipment defined
   
4-2-5– 4-2-9   Reserved
Administration of Law
   
4-2-10   Electrical Inspector; power; duties
   
4-2-11   Same; entry; tests; electric power; wires
   
4-2-12   Dangerous equipment; conditions; notice
   
4-2-13   Electrical Inspector; defense
   
4-2-14   Electrician; state license; required; exceptions
   
4-2-15   Same; supervision
   
4-2-16   Construction permit; required; exceptions
   
4-2-17   Same; application
   
4-2-18   Same; fees
   
4-2-19   Electrical contractor; bond
   
4-2-20   Permit; posting
   
4-2-21   Same; expiration; renewal
   
4-2-22   Same; revocation
   
4-2-23   Same; work; conformance
   
4-2-24   Inspections; required
   
4-2-25   Same; notice to Electrical Inspector; leaving work open
   
4-2-26   Same; time; notice to applicant
   
4-2-27   Failure to request permit and inspection; delinquent fee
   
4-2-28– 4-2-32   Reserved
Electrical Code
   
4-2-33   National Electrical Code; adopted
   
4-2-34   Same; branch circuit conductors; other
   
4-2-35   Same; changes in existing installations
   
4-2-36   Same; service disconnecting means
   
4-2-37   Repealed
   
4-2-38– 4-2-41   Reserved
Violations; Penalty
   
4-2-42   Violations; penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-2-1 DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   The following words or phrases, whenever used in this article or the
Electrical Code, shall be deemed to mean the following.
§ 4-2-2 SAME; AREA OF CITY JURISDICTION DEFINED.
   AREA OF CITY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within the corporate limits
of the city, and within the area outside the corporate jurisdiction within
which the city has exercised or, as the case may be, shall exercise its zoning
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3503, passed - -1996)
§ 4-2-3 SAME; ELECTRICAL CODE DEFINED.
   ELECTRICAL CODE. The standard Electrical Code as adopted in this article.
(Ord. 3503, passed - -1996)
§ 4-2-4 SAME; ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DEFINED.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. Includes material, fittings, devices, appliances,
fixtures, apparatus, and the like, as a part of, or in connection with, an
electrical installation.
(Ord. 3503, passed - -1996)
§§ 4-2-5 – 4-2-9 RESERVED.
ADMINISTRATION OF LAW
§ 4-2-10 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; POWER; DUTIES.
   The City Manager is authorized to designate an employee of the city as
Electrical Inspector. If no employee is so designated, the functions of the
Electrical Inspector as described in this code shall be performed by the
Planning and Building Official. The Electrical Inspector is hereby authorized,
empowered, and directed to interpret, where necessary, and enforce all
provisions of this article, to the end that fires and accident or injury to
persons or property shall be prevented.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-11 SAME; ENTRY; TESTS; ELECTRIC POWER; WIRES.
   The Electrical Inspector, upon proper identification and subject to
requirements of search warrants, where applicable, shall have the right during
reasonable hours to enter any building or premises and, in the discharge of his
or her official duties, to inspect and test any electrical equipment or
appliances therein contained. The Electrical Inspector shall have the authority
to cause the turning off of electrical power and, in case of an emergency, to
cut or disconnect any wire where electrical power is dangerous to life or
property.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-12 DANGEROUS EQUIPMENT; CONDITIONS; NOTICE.
   Whenever in the judgment of the Electrical Inspector, any electrical
equipment has been constructed or placed, or is guarded, in a manner such as
would tend to cause or permit fires or accidents or endanger life or property,
the Electrical Inspector shall at once notify the owner or occupant, or the
agent of the owner or occupant, of such defect and order him or her to repair,
rearrange, or remove the same.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-13 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; DEFENSE.
   Any suit brought against the Electrical Inspector or his or her subordinates
because of an act performed by him or her, or an omission by him or her
occurring, in the enforcement of any provision of this article shall be
defended by the city until final termination of the proceedings.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-14 ELECTRICIAN; STATE LICENSE; REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the installation,
repair, or alteration of electrical equipment within the area of city
jurisdiction without having secured from the State Board of Electrical
Examiners a license of the class or type which by the laws of the state is
required to be held by the person engaged in such work. A true copy of the
license shall be filed in the office of the Electrical Inspector before any
work for which the license is required shall commence; provided, a license
issued in respect of a calendar year will meet the requirement of this section
until the next following January 31.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   An apprentice electrician working under the direct supervision of a
licensed master electrician or licensed journeyman electrician;
      (2)   Employees of public power districts, public power and irrigation
districts, electric membership or cooperative associations, public utility
corporations, railroads, petroleum companies, petrochemical companies, pipeline
companies, telephone or telegraph systems, or employees of affiliated companies
performing manufacturing, installation, and repair work for such employer,
while acting within the scope of their employment;
      (3)   The installation, maintenance, repair, or alteration of vertical
transportation or passenger conveyors, elevators, or appurtenances thereto;
      (4)   The engaging of any electrical appliance where approved electrical
outlets are already installed;
      (5)   An employee, working for a single employer as part of such
employer’s full-time staff and not holding himself or herself out to the public
for hire, while acting within the scope of his or her employment; or
      (6)   An owner of property performing work on such property or farm
property which he or she owns, excluding commercial, industrial, or public use
buildings.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-15 SAME; SUPERVISION.
   If an electrical contractor employs persons to make an electrical
installation, all work shall be done under the direct supervision of a licensed
master electrician or a licensed journeyman electrician.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-16 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT; REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No electrical equipment shall be installed and no alteration shall be made
in the electrical equipment in any building or on any premises for use in
connection with electric power, lights, signs, motors, or heating devices
without having secured from the Electrical Inspector a permit therefor.
Provided, this section shall not apply to maintenance and repairs on the
premises of a person, firm, or corporation regularly employing journeyman
electricians for that purpose; provided, further, the Electrical Inspector, if
he or she finds that the safety of persons or property does not require a
permit, may waive the requirement of a permit for repairing or replacing snap
switches, fuses, lamp fixtures, taping bare joints, and repairing drop cords.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-17 SAME; APPLICATION.
   An application for a permit to install, replace, or alter electrical
equipment shall be made in writing upon forms furnished by the Electrical
Inspector. The application shall show the location of the proposed work, and
shall include a drawing or schematic diagram illustrating and describing the
proposed installation of electrical equipment. The Electrical Inspector shall
examine every such application, plan, and diagram for compliance with the
provisions of this article before issuing a permit to the applicant. (Ord.
1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-18 SAME; FEES.
   The Electrical Inspector shall collect from the applicant the fee provided
in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 4-2-19 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR; BOND.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of
installation, repair, or alteration of electrical equipment for which a
construction permit is required in this article until such person, firm, or
corporation shall have filed with the City Clerk a bond, with two or more
sureties, or a bond of surety company to be approved by the City Clerk, in the
penal sum of $2,000 conditioned that the principal will indemnify and keep
harmless the city, in case of accident or damage arising from negligence or
unskillfulness in doing or protecting such work, or from unfinished or
inadequate work, and that the principal will restore the public streets,
alleys, sidewalks, and pavement over all work done, and fill all excavations
made by the principal, so as to leave all streets, sidewalks, and pavements in
as good condition as when the work began, and will maintain the same to the
satisfaction of the City Manager for a period of six months thereafter.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-20 PERMIT; POSTING.
   The electrical construction permit shall be posted by the person installing
the work in a conspicuous place on the building or premises wherein the work is
being performed, and shall be maintained by such person in such place until the
work has been completed and final approval thereof by the Electrical Inspector
has been obtained.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-21 SAME; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL.
   A construction permit issued under provisions of this article shall become
null and void if the work is not commenced within six months from date of
issuance of the permit or shall be abandoned for a period of 120 days. Renewal
of an expired permit for identical work shall be obtained before work is
recommenced, and the renewal fee therefor shall be the minimum amount required
for a new permit.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-22 SAME; REVOCATION.
   The Electrical Inspector may, in writing, revoke a permit which has been
issued under the provisions of this article whenever the permit has been issued
in reliance upon a misrepresentation of work proposed or incorrect information
supplied by the applicant, or in violation of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-23 SAME; WORK; CONFORMANCE.
   All work done by the holder of such a permit shall conform to the plans and
specifications therefor which are included in the approved application, unless
the Electrical Inspector shall in writing consent to a deviation from such
plans or specifications.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-24 INSPECTIONS; REQUIRED.
   The Electrical Inspector shall make the following inspections of electrical
equipment installations:
   (A)   An “electrical rough-in” inspection when all conduit, boxes, wires
troughs, raceways, cabinets, and panel boards to be installed are in place,
before the view thereof has been obscured and before installing fixtures or
devices;
   (B)   “Meter loop” inspection when all conduit, service entrance equipment,
meter sockets, main service disconnects, and distribution panels are in place
and all wiring from the point of service attachment to the point of
distribution is in place, before current is permanently connected or restored;
   (C)   “Final electrical” inspection when all electrical equipment to be
installed, including all outlets, receptacles, lights, switches, fixtures,
appliances, motors, controls, devices, and apparatus are in place, completed,
and operating; and
   (D)   Such other inspections or tests of apparatus as the Electrical
Inspector shall deem necessary to determine compliance with provisions of this
article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-25 SAME; NOTICE TO ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; LEAVING WORK OPEN.
   During and upon completion of the installation of electrical equipment, it
shall be the duty of the contractor, electrician, or installer to notify the
Electrical Inspector when the work is ready for inspection. It shall be the
responsibility of the contractor or person in charge of electrical installation
to see that no work is obscured from view and is left open until inspected and
approved.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-26 SAME; TIME; NOTICE TO APPLICANT.
   The Electrical Inspector shall complete inspection of work by the close of
the working day of the department following the day on which the department has
been notified that the work is ready for inspection. When, upon inspection of
the work, the Electrical Inspector finds the electrical installation to be
fully in compliance with provisions of this article, and not to constitute a
hazard to life and property, he or she shall attach to the installation a tag
approving the installation, and shall authorize connection of the installation
to the electrical service and the turning on of the power. If the Electrical
Inspector finds the electrical installation not to be fully in compliance with
provisions of this article, or that it constitutes a hazard to life or
property, he or she shall so notify the person, firm, or corporation who made
the installation and, if such person, firm, or corporation shall so request,
shall furnish to such person a statement in writing of the reasons for such
finding. No power shall be turned on until an approval tag has been attached
and authorization for a connection has been given by the Electrical Inspector,
provided, if the Electrical Inspector shall fail to complete an inspection
within the time herein limited, work may proceed or, as the case may be, a
connection may be made or power may be turned on at the risk of the person
doing the work and his or her employer, if any.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
§ 4-2-27 FAILURE TO REQUEST PERMIT AND INSPECTION; DELINQUENT FEE.
   If the Electrical Inspector becomes aware that a person has failed to file a
necessary request for a permit and/or inspection, the Electrical Inspector
shall send to such person a written notification by certified mail to file such
request within 14 days. Any person filing a late request for a permit or
inspection shall pay to the Electrical Inspector a delinquent fee in the amount
provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 2892, passed - -1984)
§§ 4-2-28 – 4-2-32 RESERVED.
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 4-2-33 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED.
   The 2023 Edition of NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, as published by the
National Fire Protection Association, is adopted for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration,
maintenance and removal of all equipment within or on all buildings, private or
public, within the area of city jurisdiction. Reference to “the National
Electrical Code” or “the Electrical Code” throughout the municipal code shall
mean this code. Except for those portions specifically excluded or modified by
this or other sections of the municipal code, the National Electrical Code is
adopted in this section by reference. The construction, alteration, maintenance
and removal of all electrical equipment shall comply with the National
Electrical Code and with additional requirements as are prescribed in this
article. One copy of the National Electrical Code shall be on file in the City
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 4059, passed - -2011; Ord. 4143, passed - -2015; Ord. 4218, passed 7-17-
2017; Ord. 4335, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 4-2-34 SAME; BRANCH CIRCUIT CONDUCTORS; OTHER.
   Section 210.19(A4) of the Electrical Code shall be deemed to be hereby
amended to read as if the first sentence thereof had been deleted and there had
been inserted in lieu thereof the following sentences: “Branch circuit
conductors supplying loads other than cooking appliances as covered in (b)
above and as listed in Section 210.19 shall have an ampacity sufficient for the
loads served and shall not be smaller than No. 12 AWG copper. No aluminum
conductor smaller than No. 8 AWG shall be used in any electrical installation”.
(Ord. 3850, passed - -2005)
§ 4-2-35 SAME; CHANGES IN EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
   Section 220.16(A) and (B) of the Electrical Code shall be deemed to be
hereby amended to include the following additional subparagraph: “(3) Other
requirements. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding in subparagraphs (1) and
(2) of this subparagraph (d) when any additions, alterations, or renewals of
existing wiring installations are made, that portion added, altered, or renewed
shall be made to conform with all requirements for new building, except that,
when more than 50 percent of the lineal footage of the wiring in any building
is changed, the entire wiring installation in the building shall be made to
conform with all the requirements for new buildings, and that, when more than
50 percent of the lineal footage of any circuit is changed, the circuit shall
be made to conform with all the requirements for new buildings. When any part
of a wiring installation has been disconnected due to fire, flood, altered by
unauthorized persons, nature, calamity, or otherwise becoming a hazard, such
installation may not be reconnected without inspection and approval by the
Electrical Inspector”.
(Ord. 3850, passed - -2005)
§ 4-2-36 SAME; SERVICE DISCONNECTING MEANS.
   Section 230-70(A)(1) of the Electrical Code shall be deemed to be here by
amended to include the following additional sentences: “The service
disconnecting means located inside a building shall be located immediately
adjacent to and within sight of a walk-in exit door and not within the swinging
area of such door. The distance between the disconnecting means and such exit
door shall not exceed twelve (12) feet open travel measured from the exit door
to the disconnecting means”.
(Ord. 3850, passed - -2005)
§ 4-2-37 REPEALED.
§§ 4-2-38 – 4-2-41 RESERVED.
VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
§ 4-2-42 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article or the neglect or refusal to
comply with any lawful order or notice of the Electrical Inspector made
pursuant to the provisions hereof, is a Class II violation. Where the
Electrical Inspector shall have notified any person as provided in § 4-2-12 of
this article to repair, rearrange, or remove electrical equipment within 30
days and such person shall fail to do so, each day which shall elapse after the
expiration of such 30 days’ time until the order of the Electrical Inspector is
fully complied with shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2200, passed - -1976)
ARTICLE 3: PLUMBING AND HEATING
Section
General Provisions
   
4-3-1   Article; scope
   
4-3-2    – 4-3-6Reserved
Definitions
   
4-3-7   Generally
   
4-3-8   Air for combustion
   
4-3-9   Appliance; gas
   
4-3-10   Appliance; unvented
   
4-3-11   Appliance; vented
   
4-3-12   Chimney
   
4-3-13   Combustible material
   
4-3-14   Combustible material; protected
   
4-3-15   Draft hood or draft diverter
   
4-3-16   Flue
   
4-3-17   Gas
   
4-3-18   Gas service line
   
4-3-19   Gas service line extension
   
4-3-20   Main; gas
   
4-3-21   Outlet; gas
   
4-3-22   Piping; house gas
   
4-3-23   Purge
   
4-3-24   Rating; input
   
4-3-25   Rating; output
   
4-3-26   Regulator; gas pressure
   
4-3-27   Riser
   
4-3-28   Space heater
   
4-3-29   Vent
   
4-3-30    – 4-3-33Reserved
Compliance with State Law; Adoption of Codes; Plumbing Inspector
   
4-3-34   Plumbing Inspector
   
4-3-35   State law; compliance
   
4-3-36   International Plumbing Code; adopted; exceptions
   
4-3-37   International Mechanical Code; adopted
   
4-3-38   Repealed
   
4-3-39   Repealed
   
4-3-40   Standard codes; references; file
   
4-3-41   Unsanitary plumbing; vacating premises; Plumbing Inspector power
   
4-3-42   Excavations; backfilling
   
4-3-43   Solar Code; permit; fees
   
4-3-44   Same; permit; failure to obtain; delay
   
4-3-45    – 4-3-49Reserved
Plumbers; Licensing; Regulation
   
4-3-50   Plumbing license; required
   
4-3-51   Plumbing contractors; license; required
   
4-3-52   Water utilities; water and sewer mains
   
4-3-53   Same; apprentice plumber; certificate
   
4-3-54   Heating; steam, gas, oil, and water fitting; contractor’s license;
required
   
4-3-55   Same; unlicensed person; hiring; prohibited
   
4-3-56   Limited contractor; qualifications
   
4-3-57   Applications; forms; requirements; general
   
4-3-58   Contractor; license; application; bond; fee; expiration
   
4-3-59   Master plumber; license; application; qualifications; proof
   
4-3-60   Journeyman plumber; license; application; qualifications; proof
   
4-3-61   Apprentice plumber; certificate; application
   
4-3-62   Sheet metal for heating worker; license; application; qualifications;
proof
   
4-3-63   Mechanical contractor; definition
   
4-3-64   Gas fitter; license; application; qualifications
   
4-3-65   Apprentice, journeyman, and master mechanical contractor; worked
allowed; license required
   
4-3-66   Water fitter; license; application; qualifications; proof
   
4-3-67   Examination; time; place; nature
   
4-3-68   Examination; failure to pass; reexamination
   
4-3-69   Licenses; issuance; renewal
   
4-3-70   Same; master plumbers
   
4-3-71   Same; fees
   
4-3-72   Plumber’s license; scope; effect
   
4-3-73   Sheet metal for heating worker’s license; scope; effect
   
4-3-74   Steam fitter’s license; scope; effect
   
4-3-75   Gas fitter’s license; scope; effect
   
4-3-76   Oil fitter’s license; scope; effect
   
4-3-77   Water fitter’s license; scope; effect
   
4-3-78   Licenses; certificates; revocation
   
4-3-79   Plumbing signs; restrictions
   
4-3-80   Lawn sprinkler systems; vacuum breaker
   
4-3-81    – 4-3-84Reserved
Construction Permits; Inspection
   
4-3-85   Construction; repair; permit; required; exceptions
   
4-3-86   Same; application
   
4-3-87   Permit; posting; required
   
4-3-88   Deviation; prohibited
   
4-3-89   Inspection; notice to Plumbing Inspector; leaving work open; time of
inspection
   
4-3-90   Tests; required; by whom; presence of Plumbing Inspector
   
4-3-91   Tests; specifications
   
4-3-92   Inspection; results; notice
   
4-3-93   Final inspection; notice to Plumbing Inspector; final tests
   
4-3-94   Final inspection; certificate; effect; unsatisfactory work;
condemnation
   
4-3-95   Inspection fees; amounts
   
4-3-96   Permit; inspections; failure to request; notice; delinquent fee
   
4-3-97   Lawn sprinkling system; requirements
   
4-3-98   Same; construction and installation; permit; fee
   
4-3-99   Same; inspections; notice; fees
   
4-3-100    – 4-3-104Reserved
Water Supply
   
4-3-105   Service line; depth; protection from freezing
   
4-3-106   Same; distance from sewer
   
4-3-107   Same; material
   
4-3-108   Meter pits; specifications
   
4-3-109   Water meters; location; position
   
4-3-110   Pipes; inside buildings; grade; stop and waste valves
   
4-3-111   Same; bends; off-sets; copper pipe
   
4-3-112   Plumbing fixtures and appliances; water supply
   
4-3-113   Private well; standards
   
4-3-114   Public water wells; wellhead protection; encroachments
   
4-3-115   Same; existing facilities within wellhead protection area
   
4-3-116   Same; monitoring or dewatering wells within the wellhead protection
area
   
4-3-117    – 4-3-118Reserved
Sewers; Drains
   
4-3-119   Public sewer; independent connection; required; when
   
4-3-120   Same; common lateral; permit; when
   
4-3-121   Same; permit; application; agreement
   
4-3-122   Junction wye (Y); connection
   
4-3-123   Tap; permit; required
   
4-3-124   Same; specifications; presence; Plumbing Inspector
   
4-3-125   Sewer pipe; location; grade
   
4-3-126   Same; materials
   
4-3-127   Same; diameter
   
4-3-128   Waste and vent piping; soil stacks; materials
   
4-3-129   Same; support
   
4-3-130   Roof drains; mud traps
   
4-3-131   Mud traps; use
   
4-3-132    – 4-3-135Reserved
Plumbing Fixtures; Accommodations
   
4-3-136   Wooden sinks, wash trays, and bathtubs; prohibited; exceptions;
permit
   
4-3-137   Ventilation; required; specifications
   
4-3-138    – 4-3-141 Reserved
Gas Lines
   
4-3-142   Main-to-curb lines; installation; by whom
   
4-3-143   Service line; installation; testing; inspection; by whom
   
4-3-144   Same; location
   
4-3-145   Same; material; construction
   
4-3-146   Exposed lines and devices; protection
   
4-3-147   House gas piping; material
   
4-3-148   Same; fittings; stop cocks
   
4-3-149   Gas pipes; concealed; inside flue; prohibited
   
4-3-150   Natural gas; turning on and off; restrictions
   
4-3-151    – 4-3-154Reserved
Heating Units
   
4-3-155   Gas appliances and accessories; specifications; general
   
4-3-156    – 4-3-159Reserved
Violations; Penalty
   
4-3-160   Violations; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Plumbing inspection, see Neb. RS 18-1901 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-3-1 ARTICLE; SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to all installations and repair
of plumbing material and fixtures, gas fittings, devices, appliances, fixture
and apparatus, drainage or sewer disposal systems, water softeners, oil heating
equipment, liquid petroleum dispensers and storage equipment and refrigerating
equipment, hereinafter usually referred to as “plumbing”, within or on public
or private buildings, structures or premises within the city, or outside the
city within the area in respect of which the city has exercised its zoning
jurisdiction, for the conveyance of water, waterborne wastes, fuels or gases
and their respective disposal systems.
(Ord. 3084, passed - -1988)
§§ 4-3-2 – 4-3-6 RESERVED.
DEFINITIONS
§ 4-3-7 GENERALLY.
   Any of the terms defined in subsequent sections of this article has the
meaning, when used in any article of this chapter, which is given the term in
the definition in this article. (Where altitude is involved in determining the
meaning of words or phrases, or their derivatives, the altitude shall be
considered to be that of the city.)
§ 4-3-8 AIR FOR COMBUSTION.
   AIR FOR COMBUSTION. The amount of air required for safely and properly
burning gas at the altitude involved.
§ 4-3-9 APPLIANCE; GAS.
   APPLIANCE; GAS. A fixture or apparatus manufactured and designed to use
natural, manufactured, mixed, or other gas as a medium for developing light,
heat, or power, and including, but not limited to, gas ranges, gas room
heaters, gas steam and hot water boilers, and gas burners of all kinds,
together with any attachments or apparatus designed to be attached to any gas
appliance, such as solid tops, pilot lights, governors, regulators, fuel
savers, and safety devices.
§ 4-3-10 APPLIANCE; UNVENTED.
   APPLIANCE; UNVENTED. A gas appliance designed or installed in such a manner
that the products of combustion are not conveyed directly to a chimney or flue.
§ 4-3-11 APPLIANCE; VENTED.
   APPLIANCE; VENTED. A gas appliance designed and installed in such a manner
that all the products of combustion are conveyed directly to an approved
chimney or flue.
§ 4-3-12 CHIMNEY.
   CHIMNEY. A vertical masonry or reinforced concrete shaft enclosing one or
more flues designed for the purpose of removing the products of combustion of
solid, liquid, or gas fuel to the outside atmosphere.
§ 4-3-13 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL.
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL. Material that will ignite at or above a temperature of
750ºF and will continue to burn or glow at that temperature.
§ 4-3-14 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL; PROTECTED.
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL; PROTECTED. Any protective material conforming to the
standards therefor of Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., and that prevents the
temperature of combustible material from exceeding 90ºF above normal room
temperature.
§ 4-3-15 DRAFT HOOD OR DRAFT DIVERTER.
   DRAFT HOOD or DRAFT DIVERTER. A device attached to or made a part of the
vent outlet from an appliance, and designed by the manufacturer of the
appliance to:
      (1)   Ensure the ready escape of the products of combustion, in the event
of no draft, backdraft, or stoppage in the vent beyond the draft hood;
      (2)   Prevent a backdraft from entering the appliance; and
      (3)   Neutralize the effect of stack action of the flue upon the
operation of the appliance. “Automatic draft regulator” is a device attached to
or made a part of the vent outlet from an appliance, and designed to govern the
effect of stack action of the flue upon the operation of the appliance.
§ 4-3-16 FLUE.
   FLUE. A pipe, vertical or nearly so in direction, designed to convey all the
products of combustion to the outside atmosphere. “Flue-Type A” means tile or
fire clay brick-lined chimney or smoke stacks for all types of fuels. “Flue-
Type B” means approved vent piping of noncombustible, corrosion-resistant
material of adequate strength and heat insulating value and having bell and
spigot of other acceptable joints. “Flue-Type C” means single wall vent pipe,
of a type approved by Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., or by AGA.
§ 4-3-17 GAS.
   GAS. Includes natural, manufactured, mixed gas, or liquefied petroleum
products.
§ 4-3-18 GAS SERVICE LINE.
   GAS SERVICE LINE. A pipe and fittings used to convey unmeasured gas from the
main to the premises to be supplied, and in general, extending underground to a
riser that extends above ground at the foundation wall through which the pipe
passes.
§ 4-3-19 GAS SERVICE LINE EXTENSION.
   GAS SERVICE LINE EXTENSION. All gas pipe and regulators, meter headers, and
other devices installed inside the premises to connect the end of the gas
service line with the fitting to which the inlet piping for the meter
installation is to be attached, and containing unmeasured gas.
§ 4-3-20 MAIN; GAS.
   MAIN; GAS. A portion of the system used for distributing gas, which is
designed to supply gas to the service pipes of one or more units, generally is
located entirely outside of the premises, and ordinarily lies parallel with the
boundary line of the street or alley within which it lies.
§ 4-3-21 OUTLET; GAS.
   OUTLET; GAS. A threaded connection in a house gas piping system to which a
gas-burning appliance is or may be attached.
§ 4-3-22 PIPING; HOUSE GAS.
   PIPING; HOUSE GAS. The system of piping, within a structure or a building,
that conveys gas from the outlet of the service meter or line to appliances at
various places throughout the building, and is entirely exposed. Any outside
piping underground that contains measured gas also constitutes house gas
piping.
§ 4-3-23 PURGE.
   PURGE. To clear of air, water, or other foreign substance.
§ 4-3-24 RATING; INPUT.
   RATING; INPUT. The amount of gas fuel in BTU’s per hour that can be safely
burned in an appliance at the altitude involved.
§ 4-3-25 RATING; OUTPUT.
   RATING; OUTPUT. The amount of heat in BTU’s per hour that an appliance will
deliver for useful service when operating at rated input.
§ 4-3-26 REGULATOR; GAS PRESSURE.
   REGULATOR; GAS PRESSURE. A device that maintains a substantially uniform gas
pressure at its outlet.
§ 4-3-27 RISER.
   RISER. A fuel gas supply pipe that extends vertically.
§ 4-3-28 SPACE HEATER.
   SPACE HEATER. Includes, but is not limited to, gas heating stoves, radiant
heaters, and room heaters.
§ 4-3-29 VENT.
   VENT. A pipe designed to convey the products of combustion from an appliance
to the outside atmosphere.
§§ 4-3-30 – 4-3-33 RESERVED.
COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW; ADOPTION OF CODES; PLUMBING INSPECTOR
§ 4-3-34 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The City Manager is authorized to designate an employee of the city as
Plumbing Inspector. If no employee is so designated, the functions of the
Plumbing Inspector as described in this code shall be performed by the Planning
and Building Official.
§ 4-3-35 STATE LAW; COMPLIANCE.
   Plumbing installations or other sanitary conveniences shall fully comply
with all applicable state laws, rules, and regulations now existing or
hereafter enacted or adopted.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-36 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the installation and repair of plumbing material and fixtures,
appliances and apparatus, drainage or sewer disposal systems, water softeners,
dispensers, and storage equipment, hereinafter referred to as “plumbing”, that
certain plumbing code known as the International Plumbing Code, published and
recommended by the International Code Council, being the 2018 Edition thereof
(hereinafter usually referred to as the “Plumbing Code”). One copy of such code
is on file in the office of the City Clerk, and such code is hereby adopted and
incorporated in this section by reference as fully as if set out at length
herein (except such portions thereof as hereinafter are excluded, or adopted
with modifications).
   (B)   Provided, Chapter 1 and §§ 603.2 and 605.0 of the International
Plumbing Code are hereby excluded from, and shall not be deemed to have been
adopted by, this section.
(Ord. 4258, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 4-3-37 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE; ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the complete installation, maintenance, and repair of heating,
ventilating, cooling, and refrigeration systems, hereinafter referred to as
“mechanical plumbing”, that certain mechanical plumbing code known as
International Mechanical Code, published and recommended by the International
Code Council, being the 2018 Edition thereof (hereinafter usually referred to
as “Mechanical Code”). One copy of such code is on file in the office of the
City Clerk, and such code is hereby adopted and incorporated in this section by
reference as fully as if set out at length herein (except such portion thereof
as hereinafter are excluded, or adopted with modifications).
   (B)   Provided, Chapter 1 of the International Mechanical Code is hereby
excluded from, and shall not be deemed to have been adopted by, this section.
(Ord. 4258, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 4-3-38 REPEALED.
§ 4-3-39 REPEALED.
§ 4-3-40 STANDARD CODES; REFERENCES; FILE.
   All references in this article to codes or pamphlets are to codes or
pamphlets, three copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk.
All of such codes and pamphlets are standard codes. All of such codes and
pamphlets are hereby adopted and incorporated in this article as fully as if
set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-41 UNSANITARY PLUMBING; VACATING PREMISES; PLUMBING INSPECTOR POWER.
   Whenever upon inspection any building or premises, or part thereof, is found
unfit for human habitation by reason of defective plumbing, water piping, gas
fitting, or drainage system, the Plumbing Inspector may order the vacation of
such building, premises, or part thereof, and a written or printed order shall
be conspicuously posted on the building or premises, and where practicable, a
copy shall be served on the owner, agent, or occupant of such premises, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to vacate such
premises when so ordered.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-42 EXCAVATIONS; BACKFILLING.
   No concrete rubble, building material wastes, garbage, or trash shall be
used for backfilling of excavations for water, sewer, or gas lines. The
material used shall be thoroughly tamped and packed into place so that no
settling will take place. The holder of the building permit and the holder of
the excavation permit, if an excavation permit is required, shall maintain the
surface over the refilled excavation in a smooth condition for a period of six
months from the completion of backfilling. No water, sewer, or gas line shall
cross another such line unless the trench for the lower line has been
excavated, backfilled, and tamped back to the satisfaction of the Plumbing
Inspector.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-43 SOLAR CODE; PERMIT; FEES.
   The applicant for a permit required under the Solar Code shall pay to the
Code Administrator II for each permit, at the time of issuance the fee provided
in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3796, passed - -2004)
§ 4-3-44 SAME; PERMIT; FAILURE TO OBTAIN; DELAY.
   Any person who shall commence any work for which a permit is required by the
Solar Code without first having obtained a permit therefor shall, if
subsequently permitted to obtain a permit, pay double the permit fee fixed by
this article for such work; provided, this provision shall not apply to
emergency work when it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the Code
Administrator II that such work was urgently necessary and that it was not
practical to obtain a permit therefor before the commencement of the work. In
all cases in which failure to procure a permit before commencing work shall be
determined by the Code Administrator to be excusable under the foregoing
provisions, a permit must be obtained as soon as it is practical to do so and,
if there be an unreasonable delay in obtaining such permit, a double fee as
herein provided shall be charged and paid.
(Ord. 2892, passed - -1984; Ord. 3796, passed - -2004)
§§ 4-3-45 – 4-3-49 RESERVED.
PLUMBERS; LICENSING; REGULATION
§ 4-3-50 PLUMBING LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual to do any plumbing within the
corporate limits of the city, or the area outside the city within which the
city has exercised its zoning jurisdiction, unless such individual holds a
master plumber’s license issued by the city and does the actual installation or
repair work; or holds a journeyman plumber’s license issued by the city and
does the actual installation or repair work under the direct supervision of an
individual who holds a master plumber’s license issued by the city. It shall be
unlawful for any individual, partnership, corporation, or other firm engaged in
the business of plumbing, or in the doing of plumbing for hire, to cause any
plumbing to be done, within the corporate limits of the city or the area
outside the city within which the city has exercised its zoning jurisdiction,
otherwise than in the manner provided in the next preceding sentence.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2445, passed - -1979)
§ 4-3-51 PLUMBING CONTRACTORS; LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   In addition to the requirements and prohibitions prescribed elsewhere in
this article:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to engage in the business of
plumbing, or to install or repair plumbing for hire, within the corporate
limits of the city or the area outside the city within which the city has
exercised its zoning jurisdiction, unless such individual holds a plumbing
contractor’s license as provided in this article or does the work as an
employee of an individual, partnership, corporation, or other firm, or as a
member of a partnership or otherwise unincorporated firm, which holds such a
license; and
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any partnership, corporation, or other firm
to engage in the business of plumbing, or to cause any plumbing to be installed
or repaired for hire, within the corporate limits of the city or the area
outside the city within which the city has exercised its zoning jurisdiction,
unless such partnership, corporation, or other firm holds a plumbing
contractor’s license as provided in this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2445, passed - -1979)
§ 4-3-52 WATER UTILITIES; WATER AND SEWER MAINS.
   Anything in §§
4-3-50 or
4-3-51 of this subchapter to the contrary notwithstanding, such sections shall
not apply to employees of a water utility acting within the scope of their
employment. The construction, repair, or replacement of water mains or sanitary
sewer mains in the public streets, alleys, or other public places of the city
pursuant to a contract with the city, or to authorization granted by the City
Council, shall not constitute the doing of plumbing, the engaging in the
business of plumbing, or the installation or repair of plumbing for hire within
the meaning of such sections.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2445, passed - -1979)
§ 4-3-53 SAME; APPRENTICE PLUMBER; CERTIFICATE.
   An apprentice plumber holding a certificate issued by the Plumbing Inspector
may assist the holder of a master plumber’s license in the installation and
repair of plumbing, but may not perform the actual installation or repair.
Provided, not more than one apprentice plumber may be employed to assist one
master plumber, nor may more than one apprentice plumber per journeyman plumber
be employed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2445, passed - -1979)
§ 4-3-54 HEATING; STEAM, GAS, OIL, AND WATER FITTING; CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE;
REQUIRED.
   No individual for hire shall work at the installation, repair, or alteration
of sheet metal for heating, steam fitting, gas fitting, oil fitting, or water
fitting unless he or she is a plumbing contractor or limited contractor, or is
employed by a plumbing contractor or limited contractor, who has a plumbing
contractor’s license or a limited contractor’s license issued by the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-55 SAME; UNLICENSED PERSON; HIRING; PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any individual contractor or other person
to hire anyone not holding the requisite license or certificate for the work
involved to supervise the installing units, water softeners, or other fixtures,
devices, or appliances designed for connection to the water supply system but
not to the sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-56 LIMITED CONTRACTOR; QUALIFICATIONS.
   A limited contractor shall hold, or shall employ the services of at least
one employee holding, a license either as a sheet metal for heating worker,
steam fitter, gas fitter, oil fitter, or water fitter issued by the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-57 APPLICATIONS; FORMS; REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL.
   The application for a license or certificate required by this subchapter
shall be made in writing on forms furnished by the Plumbing Inspector, and
shall state the date, the name of the applicant, the location of his or her
place of business or employment, and such other information as the Plumbing
Inspector may require. Every such application by a person who does not hold a
license as a plumbing contractor or limited contractor shall be signed both by
the applicant and by the plumbing contractor or limited contractor by whom he
or she is employed.
(Ord. 4157, passed - -2015)
§ 4-3-58 CONTRACTOR; LICENSE; APPLICATION; BOND; FEE; EXPIRATION.
   A plumbing contractor’s license or a limited contractor’s license shall be
granted to every person, firm, partnership, and corporation who is a plumbing
contractor or, as the case may be, a limited contractor, and who shall make
application to the City Clerk therefor, pass an examination administered by the
Plumbing Examining Board, and file with such application, a bond with two or
more sureties, or a bond of a surety company to be approved by the City Clerk
in the penal sum of $2,000, conditioned that such licensee will indemnify and
keep harmless the city in case of any accidents or damage arising from
negligence or unskillfulness in doing or protecting his or her work, or from
any unfinished and/or inadequate work done in pursuance of such license, and
that such licensee will restore the street, sidewalk, and pavements over all
work that he or she might lay and fill all excavations made, so as to leave all
streets, sidewalks, and pavement in as good condition as they were when found,
and will maintain the same to the satisfaction of the City Manager or the
designee of the City Manager for the period of six months thereafter. The
annual fee for plumbing contractor’s license or limited contractor’s license in
the city shall be $25, and shall be due and payable to the City Clerk on or
before May 1 of each calendar year. Such license shall be for one year or any
fraction thereof expiring on April 30.
(Ord. 4157, passed - -2015)
§ 4-3-59 MASTER PLUMBER; LICENSE; APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS; PROOF.
   Applications for a master plumber’s license must have had, in the first
instance, passed an examination administered by the Plumbing Examining Board
and have had, at least three years’ actual experience as a licensed journeyman
plumber, and shall present documentary proof thereof in the form of letters or
affidavits from employers, or former employers or such other qualified persons
attesting to such fact. Following issuance of a provisional master plumber’s
license as provided in this article, an applicant for a final master plumber’s
license must, as a condition to qualifying for the issuance of such a license
to him or her, have had one year’s actual experience as a provisionally
licensed master plumber.
(Ord. 2900, passed - -1985; Ord. 4157, passed - -2015)
§ 4-3-60 JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER; LICENSE; APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS; PROOF.
   Applicants for a journeyman plumber’s license must have passed an
examination administered by the Plumbing Examining Board and have had at least
three years’ actual experience as a plumber’s apprentice or plumber’s helper,
and shall present documentary proof thereof in the form of letters or
affidavits from employers or former employers or such other qualified persons
attesting to such fact.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978; Ord. 4157, passed - -
2015)
§ 4-3-61 APPRENTICE PLUMBER; CERTIFICATE; APPLICATION.
   Applicants for an apprentice plumber’s certificate shall, on filing of
application and having passed an examination administered by the Plumbing
Examining Board, then will be issued a certificate by the Plumbing Inspector,
who shall record the name and date of issuance of the certificate.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978; Ord. 4157, passed - -
2015)
§ 4-3-62 SHEET METAL FOR HEATING WORKER; LICENSE; APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS;
PROOF.
   Applicants for a sheet metal for heating worker’s license must have had two
years’ actual experience in the installation of sheet metal for heating units
and appliances, and shall present documentary proof thereof in the form of
letters or affidavits from employers or former employers or such other
qualified persons attesting to such fact.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978; Ord. 4258, passed 2-1-
2021)
§ 4-3-63 MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR; DEFINITION.
   The term MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR shall include anyone engaged in the business
of construction, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to, and maintenance of mechanical systems as
regulated by the International Mechanical Code. Mechanical contractors may
install gas piping with proper certification.
(Ord. 4258, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 4-3-64 GAS FITTER; LICENSE; APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Applicants for a gas fitter’s license shall have had two years’ actual
experience in gas fitting under the supervision of a licensed plumber or
licensed gas fitter; shall have a comprehensive knowledge of the application
and use of natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, and manufactured gases; shall
be familiar with the approved standard fixtures and appliances for consuming
these gases; and shall be familiar with and thoroughly understand the
recommended methods of installation of such fixtures and appliances as provided
in Pamphlet No. 54, dated 1984, of the National Board of Fire Underwriters.
(Ord. 3006, passed - -1986; Ord. 4258, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 4-3-65 APPRENTICE, JOURNEYMAN, AND MASTER MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR; WORKED
ALLOWED; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Apprentice mechanical contractor.
      (1)   Work allowed. The construction, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, and maintenance of
mechanical systems while employed by and under the direct supervision of a
master mechanical contractor or a journeyman mechanical contractor licensed by
the city.
      (2)   Licensing requirements. None; apprentices may be registered with
the city as a means of documenting their work experience.
   (B)   Journeyman mechanical contractor.
      (1)   Work allowed. The construction, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, and maintenance of
mechanical systems while under the employment of a master mechanical
contractor.
      (2)   Licensing requirements. One year of relevant work experience with
references provided and employment with a contractor holding a master
mechanical contractor license issued by the city.
      (3)   Gas piping. Journeyman mechanical contractors may install gas
piping if employed by a master mechanical contractor certified by the city for
its installation.
   (C)   Master mechanical contractor.
      (1)   Work allowed. The construction, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, and maintenance of
mechanical systems.
      (2)   Licensing requirements. The applicant shall submit to an
examination of the International Code Council master mechanical exam and have a
minimum of two years’ experience as a mechanical journeyman with references
provided for confirmation. Up to one year of this requirement may be fulfilled
by successful completion of a course from an approved trade or technical
school. The city may accept a master mechanical license from another
jurisdiction in lieu of the required exam and referenced experience; provided
the applicant was issued said license from the other jurisdiction using exams
similar in scope and character to the exams used by the city, and said
applicant was required to provide references showing at least three years of
mechanical experience.
      (3)   Gas piping. Master mechanical contractors may install gas piping if
they submit to and pass the International Code Council gas pipe fitters
examination in addition to other master mechanical licensing requirements.
(Ord. 4258, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 4-3-66 WATER FITTER; LICENSE; APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS; PROOF.
   Applicants for a water fitter’s license shall have had at least two years’
experience in the installation of water pipes, or have been an apprentice
plumber for at least two years; shall present documentary proof of such fact in
the form of letters or affidavit from the employer or former employers, or
other qualified persons; and shall pass an examination by the Plumbing
Examining Board showing that the applicant has a thorough knowledge of safety
requirements and precautions.
(Ord. 3722, passed - -2002)
§ 4-3-67 EXAMINATION; TIME; PLACE; NATURE.
   The Plumbing Examining Board shall conduct examinations upon receipt of an
application as required by this article from time to time at such time and
place as the Board my designate, but no applicant shall be compelled to wait
more than 30 days following presentation of the application. Such Board shall
propound such examinations to each applicant as will ascertain his or her
knowledge of plumbing, gas fitting, house drainage, plumbing ventilation, sheet
metal work for heating, water fitting, and related subjects, as the case may be
and, if satisfied of the competency of such applicant, shall thereupon issue a
master plumber’s, journeyman plumber’s, sheet metal for heating worker’s, gas
fitter’s, or water fitter’s license, as the case may be, authorizing such
applicant to engage in the calling or trade for which he or she has made
application.
(Ord. 4157, passed - -2015)
§ 4-3-68 EXAMINATION; FAILURE TO PASS; REEXAMINATION.
   When an applicant fails to pass an examination designated or required by the
Plumbing Inspector, he or she shall be permitted to resubmit his or her
application six months after date of the examination failed. An applicant may
resubmit his or her application as often as desired, but in no event in a
shorter period than six months after the examination failed.
§ 4-3-69 LICENSES; ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.
   The licenses for which provisions are made in the preceding sections of this
subchapter shall be issued upon the recommendation of the Plumbing Examining
Board. All original and all renewal licenses may be renewed at the dates of
their expiration. Renewal licenses shall be granted without a reexamination.
Upon a written application of the licensee filed with the Board, showing that
his or her purposes and qualifications remain unchanged, unless it is made to
appear by affidavit before the Board that the applicant is no longer competent,
or otherwise entitled to such renewal license, in which event the renewal
license shall not be granted until the applicant has undergone the examination
herein above required. Provided, issuance of master plumber licenses shall also
be subject to the provisions of this article, which shall govern the issuance
of such licenses in any respects in which such provisions are inconsistent with
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 4157, passed - -2015)
§ 4-3-70 SAME; MASTER PLUMBERS.
   Only a provisional master plumber’s license may be issued, in the first
instance, to applicants for a master plumber’s license (other than applicants
holding a master plumber’s license) who the Plumbing Examining Board shall
determine to have had the experience specified in the first sentence of § 4-3-
59 of this subchapter. The term of such a license shall be 13 months, and such
a license shall not be subject to renewal. After one year following issuance of
such a license, the holder of the license may apply to the Board for a final
master plumber’s license. If the Board shall determine that throughout such
year the holder complied with all requirements of this article pertaining to
work which may be done by a master plumber, and the applicant has passed an
examination administered by the Plumbing Examining Board, then the Board shall
authorize the issuance of a final master plumber’s license to such holder;
otherwise, it shall deny the application. A final master plumber’s license
shall expire on April 1 of each year, and shall require renewal as provided in
this article.
(Ord. 2900, passed - -1985; Ord. 4157, passed - -2015)
§ 4-3-71 SAME; FEES.
   At the time of filing an application for a provisional master plumber’s
license, the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk an examination fee and a
license fee in the amounts provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code. At
the time of filing an application for a license as a journeyman plumber, sheet
metal for heating worker, steam fitter, gas fitter, oil fitter, or water
fitter, the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk an examination fee and a
license fee in the amounts provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code. The
fee for renewal of master plumber’s licenses and for renewal of licenses for
journeyman plumbers, sheet metal for heating workers, steam fitter, gas
fitters, oil fitters, and water fitters shall be as provided in Chapter 6,
Article 6 of this code. Renewal fees shall be due on or before the anniversary
of the date of issuance of the existing license. No additional fee shall be
payable for a final master plumber’s license.
(Ord. 3025, passed - -1987)
§ 4-3-72 PLUMBER’S LICENSE; SCOPE; EFFECT.
   A master plumber’s license or journeyman plumber’s license shall authorize
such licensee to engage in the calling or trade of plumber as an artisan to
place, replace, install, construct, or reconstruct pipes, fittings fixtures, or
other materials connected with the business of plumbing, intended for the
conveying of water, waterborne wastes, fuels, or gases.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-73 SHEET METAL FOR HEATING WORKER’S LICENSE; SCOPE; EFFECT.
   A sheet metal for heating worker’s license shall authorize the holder
thereof to construct or install sheet metal conductors for heat distribution
and venting of heating equipment in accordance with applicable sections of this
article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-74 STEAM FITTER’S LICENSE; SCOPE; EFFECT.
   A steam fitter’s license shall authorize the holder thereof to engage in the
work of installing steam generating equipment for heating and commercial uses
in accordance with the applicable sections of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-75 GAS FITTER’S LICENSE; SCOPE; EFFECT.
   A gas fitter’s license shall authorize the holder thereof to engage in the
work of installing piping for the transmission of natural gas and gas consuming
appliances in accordance with the applicable provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-76 OIL FITTER’S LICENSE; SCOPE; EFFECT.
   An oil fitter’s license shall authorize the holder thereof to engage in the
work of installing oil or liquid fuel burning equipment and appurtenant storage
facilities and appliances in accordance with the applicable provisions of this
article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-77 WATER FITTER’S LICENSE; SCOPE; EFFECT.
   A water fitter’s license shall authorize the holder thereof to engage in the
work of installing water softeners or other fixtures, devices, or appliances
designed for connection to the water supply system but not to the sanitary
sewer, in accordance with the applicable provisions of this article. Provided,
such license shall not authorize the holder to change any piping that is not
directly connected to the fixture, device, or appliance being installed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-78 LICENSES; CERTIFICATES; REVOCATION.
   Any plumbing license or certificate issued by the City Clerk upon
recommendation of the Plumbing Examining Board may be revoked by the Plumbing
Examining Board as provided in the applicable state statutes. A judgment of
conviction of violation of any of the provisions, conditions, terms, rules,
regulations, or requirements of this article, or of the provisions of this code
relating to excavations in streets, alleys, parkways, or other public places or
grounds, may constitute grounds for such revocation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2445, passed - -1979)
§ 4-3-79 PLUMBING SIGNS; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or expose the sign
“plumbing”or “plumber”, or a sign containing words of similar import and
meaning, unless such person be duly licensed by the city in accordance with §§
4-3-7 through 4-3-33 of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-80 LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEMS; VACUUM BREAKER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not holding a plumber’s license required
under this article to construct, install, or repair a vacuum breaker in the
water supply line of a lawn sprinkler system which is subject to the
requirements of this article, or that part of the water supply line leading to
such vacuum breaker.
(Ord. 3084, passed - -1988)
§§ 4-3-81 – 4-3-84 RESERVED.
CONSTRUCTION PERMITS; INSPECTION
§ 4-3-85 CONSTRUCTION; REPAIR; PERMIT; REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person, prior to beginning or performing any work in the construction,
reconstruction, or alteration of any plumbing, gas fitting, steam fitting, oil
fitting, sheet metal work for heating or appliances, or house drainage system,
or systems of pipes for the conveyance of water, waterborne waste, fuel, or
gases in any building, or installing any water softener, or constructing,
altering, or repairing any septic tank, sewer, or drain for the conveyance or
disposal of sewage or waste liquids on any premises, shall first secure from
the Plumbing Inspector a permit therefor. Provided, no permit shall be required
for the removal of any stoppage in soil or waste pipes, or for replacing broken
or damaged fixtures, traps, and piping which conform to the requirements of
this article, and where such replacement fixtures, traps, and piping are in
good serviceable and sanitary condition, nor for the replacing of traps in soil
or waste pipes.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-86 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Application for a permit to install, change, or alter any plumbing, gas,
steam fittings, oil fittings, and sheet metal for heating appliances, or
apparatus or sewage disposal systems shall be made in writing upon forms
furnished by the Plumbing Inspector. The application shall describe the
location of the proposed work, with a drawing or diagram thereon or attached
thereto. The Plumbing Inspector shall examine every such application and plans,
drawings, or diagrams for compliance with the provisions of this article before
issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-87 PERMIT; POSTING; REQUIRED.
   The permit shall be posted by the person obtaining it in a conspicuous place
on the building or premises wherein the work is being done, until completion of
the work.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-88 DEVIATION; PROHIBITED.
   No deviation shall be made in the details of the work as shown by the
application for permit, except with written permission in writing by the
Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-89 INSPECTION; NOTICE TO PLUMBING INSPECTOR; LEAVING WORK OPEN; TIME OF
INSPECTION.
   When work is ready for inspection, the Plumbing Inspector shall be notified
in writing or by phone, and it shall be the duty of the plumbing contractor,
limited contractor, or person in charge to see that all work is left open until
inspected and approved. The Plumbing Inspector shall complete inspection of
work by the close of the working day of the department following the day on
which the department has been notified that such work is ready for inspection.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-90 TESTS; REQUIRED; BY WHOM; PRESENCE OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   It shall be the duty of the plumbing contractor, limited contractor, or
person in charge to test, in the manner hereinafter provided and in the
presence of the Plumbing Inspector, all soil, waste, vent, water, steam gas and
oil pipes, all sheet metal work for heating, and the fittings in connection
therewith.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-91 TESTS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   All plumbing, gas fitting, steam fitting, oil fitting, sheet metal work for
heating, and house drainage work shall be tested and meet a test as follows:
   (A)   For water system, shall hold city water pressure for a period of 20
minutes without leaking;
   (B)   For house drainage systems within and under all buildings or
structures, shall hold a cold water pressure of not less than four pounds per
square inch for a period of 20 minutes without leaking, or an air pressure of
ten pounds on an approved type gauge for 20 minutes;
   (C)   For natural gas fitting, the system shall hold an air pressure of 20
pounds on an approved type gauge for a period of 20 minutes;
   (D)   For liquefied petroleum (LP) gas fitting and all other manufactured
gases for domestic and commercial uses, in strict accordance with the
applicable manual for approved installation contained in Pamphlet No. 58, dated
1995, of the National Fire Protection Association;
   (E)   For steam fitting, the system shall hold cold water under city water
main pressure without leaking for a period of 20 minutes;
   (F)   For oil fitting or liquid petroleum products, the system shall hold an
air pressure of 20 pounds on an approved type gauge for a period of 20 minutes;
   (G)   For gas piping and venting, the system shall comply with the standards
of installation contained in the 2018 National Fuel Gas Code of the National
Fire Protection Association,
   (H)   For heating, ventilating, and cooling installations, the system shall
comply with the standards of installation contained in the International
Mechanical Code, dated 2018; and
   (I)   As further set out in §§
4-3-142 through 4-3-154 of this article, water for conducting tests will be
“jumped” at the meter loop by a suitable hose connection or union coupled
connection from the house service line to the house distribution system. After
the tests have been completed, the plumbing contractor, limited contractor, or
his or her workers in charge shall turn the water off at the curb cock and
disconnect the “jumper” connection in the presence of the Plumbing Inspector.
An approved type air gauge shall not exceed 50 pounds capacity and shall be
graduated in not to exceed two pound increments. All gauges may be subjected to
inspection and tests by the Plumbing Inspector when there is any doubt as to
the accuracy of such gauge. A fire test of gas fittings is prohibited under any
circumstances.
(Ord. 4258, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 4-3-92 INSPECTION; RESULTS; NOTICE.
   If upon inspection the Plumbing Inspector finds the work or material used is
not in accordance with the provisions of this article, he or she shall notify
the person doing the work in writing or by posting written notice upon the
premises. If the work is found to be satisfactory by the Plumbing Inspector, he
or she shall so inform the workers in charge and shall place a notice of
approval (tag) showing the date of such inspection on the premises.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-93 FINAL INSPECTION; NOTICE TO PLUMBING INSPECTOR; FINAL TEST.
   When the work is completed and all fixtures set, the Plumbing Inspector must
be notified that the work is ready for final inspection, and the Plumbing
Inspector may require a final test.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-94 FINAL INSPECTION; CERTIFICATE; EFFECT; UNSATISFACTORY WORK;
CONDEMNATION.
   Upon final approval of the work by the Plumbing Inspector, and payment of
inspection fees, a final certificate of inspection may be issued by the
Plumbing Inspector. Plumbing, gas fitting, steam fitting, oil fitting, or sheet
metal work for heating that has not had final inspection and a certificate
issued on the same shall be subject to condemnation in whole or in part, so far
as it is found not in conformity with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-95 INSPECTION FEES; AMOUNTS.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall, prior to the issuance of each plumbing permit,
collect from the plumbing contractor or limited contractor inspection fees as
provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3006, passed - -1986)
§ 4-3-96 PERMIT; INSPECTIONS; FAILURE TO REQUEST; NOTICE; DELINQUENT FEE.
   In the event the Plumbing Inspector shall determine that construction for
which a prior permit or an inspection was required by any provision of this
article has occurred without an application therefor in the manner required by
such provisions having been made, the Plumbing Inspector shall in writing
notify the owner(s) and, if the premises are in the possession of or occupied
by another, shall also notify the latter, of such determination, and that such
person(s) shall, within 14 days after service of such notice, file the required
application and pay to the Plumbing Inspector the fee required, under such
provisions of this article, to be paid in connection with such an application,
together with a delinquent fee in the amount provided in Chapter 6, Article 6
of this code. The Plumbing Inspector shall cause such notice to be served
either personally or by certified mail addressed to the last known residence
address of the person(s) upon whom the notice is to be served; and service by
such mail shall be complete upon deposit of the envelope containing the notice
in the United States Post Office.
(Ord. 3006, passed - -1986)
§ 4-3-97 LAWN SPRINKLING SYSTEM; REQUIREMENTS.
   The new construction or installation, in whole or in part, after June 27,
1988 of any lawn sprinkler system which is, or is to be, connected to the
city’s potable water supply system shall comply with the requirements of §
603.0 of the Cross-Connection Control of the International Plumbing Code
adopted by the municipal code, and with all of the other sections of the
municipal code.
(Ord. 3532, passed - -1997)
§ 4-3-98 SAME; CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION; PERMIT; FEE.
   Every person, prior to commencing new construction or installation, in whole
or in part, of a lawn sprinkler system which is, or is to be, connected as
provided in §
4-3-97 of this subchapter shall obtain a permit therefor from the Plumbing
Inspector. The application therefor shall be made in writing upon forms
furnished by the Plumbing Inspector. A fee in the amount provided in Chapter 6,
Article 6 of this code, which shall not be refundable, shall be paid at the
time of filing the application; the fee shall be payable to the City Clerk, but
shall be collected by the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 3084, passed - -1988)
§ 4-3-99 SAME; INSPECTIONS; NOTICE; FEES.
   The provisions of §§
4-3-89,
4-3-95, and
4-3-96 of this subchapter shall apply, as well, to the construction or
installation of lawn sprinkler systems, or parts thereof, which are subject to
§
4-3-97 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3084, passed - -1988)
§§ 4-3-100 – 4-3-104 RESERVED.
WATER SUPPLY
§ 4-3-105 SERVICE LINE; DEPTH; PROTECTION FROM FREEZING.
   All service pipe from the curb box to the building shall be laid not less
than four and one-half feet below the surface of the ground. In all cases,
service lines must be so protected as to prevent rupture from freezing.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-106 SAME; DISTANCE FROM SEWER.
   All water service lines shall be installed so as to be at least five feet
away from sewer lines, unless this distance is impractical, in which case the
plumber shall obtain from the Plumbing Inspector a written waiver of the
requirement.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-107 SAME; MATERIAL.
   Service pipes from the water main to the meter or valve within the building
shall be not less than one inch outside diameter and shall be made of Type K
copper, cast iron, or Polyethylene CTS200PSI-D2737 (AWWA C901); and from the
meter or valve within the building shall be brass pipe, copper tube or copper
pipe, galvanized iron pipe or galvanized steel pipe, or PEX, which must meet
ASTM standard F876/877.
(Ord. 3642, passed - -2000)
§ 4-3-108 METER PITS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   All meter pits shall be constructed at a point near the property line and
shall be of a design approved by the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-109 WATER METERS; LOCATION; POSITION.
   Water meters shall be installed in a basement, utility room, or meter pit.
All water meters shall be installed in a horizontal position not less than nine
inches above the floor, and in a location that is and will remain easily
accessible to the water meter reader and for meter repair.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-110 PIPES; INSIDE BUILDINGS; GRADE; STOP AND WASTE VALVES.
   All water pipes in buildings shall be graded so as to drain at the lowest
point; and a stop and waste valve shall be installed in an accessible place.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-111 SAME; BENDS; OFF-SETS; COPPER PIPE.
   All bends and off-sets in copper pipe shall be made so as to leave a full-
sized opening, and care shall be taken not to materially weaken any portion of
the pipe bendings.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-112 PLUMBING FIXTURES AND APPLIANCES; WATER SUPPLY.
   Branch lines to plumbing fixtures or appliances shall not be smaller than
the inlets of the fixtures or appliances to which they are connected.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-113 PRIVATE WELL; STANDARDS.
   (A)   All private wells shall comply with standards promulgated by the State
Health Department.
   (B)   After the effective date of this section, no person shall install a
private well without first obtaining a permit from the city. No permit shall be
granted unless the applicant demonstrates that the proposed private well is not
located within 1,000 feet of any of the city’s existing wells or well systems.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978; Ord. 3670, passed - -
2001)
§ 4-3-114 PUBLIC WATER WELLS; WELLHEAD PROTECTION; ENCROACHMENTS.
   Facilities that are likely hazards to the safety of drinking water or that
could have a substantial impact on a system shall meet the separation
requirements set forth in Title 179 of the Nebraska Department of Health and
Human Services, Regulations Governing Public Water Systems. The following
facilities must be located beyond the specified minimum horizontal separation
distances from a public water well.
Category Distance in Feet
Category                                                      Distance in Feet
Chemical or petroleum product storage                         500
Corral                                                        500
Feedlot or feedlot runoff                                     1,000
Land application of municipal/industrial waste material       1,000
Pit toilet/vault toilet                                       500
Sanitary sewer line                                           50
Sanitary sewer connection                                     100
Sanitary sewer manhole                                        100
Sanitary landfill/dump                                        500
Sewage treatment plant                                        500
Sewage wet well                                               500
Sewage lagoon                                                 1,000
Underground disposal system (septic system, cesspool, and the 500
like)
Wastewater holding tanks                                      500
Water well                                                    1,000
 
§ 4-3-115 SAME; EXISTING FACILITIES WITHIN WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   Existing facilities within the distance separation requirements for wellhead
protection will be allowed to continue at their current location. If the
existing facility would close for over 90 days, the pre-existing right is
permanently lost and the facility shall comply with distance requirements
established in § 4-3-114 of this subchapter.
§ 4-3-116 SAME; MONITORING OR DEWATERING WELLS WITHIN THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION
AREA.
   Any monitoring or dewatering well drilled within the wellhead protection
area shall be installed and decommissioned in a manner that meet standards set
forth in the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services, Regulations
Governing Water Well Construction, Pump Installation and Water Well
Decommissioning Standards, Title 178, and the Nebraska Department of Health and
Human Services, Regulations Governing Public Water Systems, Title 179.
§§ 4-3-117 – 4-3-118 RESERVED.
SEWERS; DRAINS
§ 4-3-119 PUBLIC SEWER; INDEPENDENT CONNECTION; REQUIRED; WHEN.
   The plumbing and drainage system of each new building, and of new work
installed in an existing building or premises, shall, except as hereinafter
provided, have an independent connection with a public sewer if such a sewer
exists in the street or alley upon which the property abuts.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-120 SAME; COMMON LATERAL; PERMIT; WHEN.
   (A)   When approved by the Plumbing Inspector, more than one house or other
building situated on the same premises may be connected to the same lateral,
providing each connection is to a wye (Y).
   (B)   In the event of a subsequent subdivision of the premises into two or
more tracts, whether by a recorded plat, a deed or a contract to sell:
      (1)   The permit shall expire on the date of such plat, deed or contract,
and the permit shall so state; and
      (2)   All connections in excess of one to the lateral shall be removed
and connection(s) of the houses or other buildings to separate lateral(s) shall
be installed by the owner(s), upon receiving a permit therefor from the
Plumbing Inspector, within 30 days after the date of the plat, deed, or
contract.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2418, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-121 SAME; PERMIT; APPLICATION; AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The application for a permit to connect more than one house or other
building situated on the same premises to the same lateral shall be in writing,
and shall include a drawing of the connection(s) existing and proposed and such
other information as the Plumbing Inspector shall require.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A written agreement with the city in recordable and otherwise in
such form as the Plumbing Inspector shall prescribe, and signed and
acknowledged by the owner(s) of record (and contract purchasers, if any) of the
premises on which the connection(s) is (are) to be made, wherein such owner(s)
covenant(s), on behalf, also, of all successors in interest to the premises, or
any part thereof, that, upon a subdivision of the property, all connections
will be removed and re-connected as provided in this article; and
      (2)   The amount of the fee chargeable by the Register of Deeds for
recording the agreement. The Plumbing Inspector shall cause such agreement to
be recorded with the Register of Deeds forthwith after issuing the permit.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2418, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-122 JUNCTION WYE (Y); CONNECTION.
   If the sewer main contains a proper junction wye (Y), the private sewer line
shall be connected to such wye (Y).
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-123 TAP; PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   The sewer main shall not be tapped except upon written permission of the
Plumbing Inspector. Such permission may be granted in event a proper junction
wye (Y) on the sewer main is not available.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-124 SAME; SPECIFICATIONS; PRESENCE; PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   Taps of the main sewer, when permitted, shall be made by using an approved
wye (Y) saddle. Taps of right angles to the direction of flow are prohibited.
All taps shall be made in the presence of the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-125 SEWER PIPE; LOCATION; GRADE.
   Sewer pipes shall be run as directly as possible and shall have a fall of at
least one-eighth inch to the foot. Where sewer pipe runs under a sidewalk, it
shall be at least two feet below the sidewalk. Sewer and drains of greater
depth than ten feet may run up to grade within three feet at the property line,
and, where the property line is some distance above the grade of the street,
one-eighth bends may be used. It shall not be necessary to lay sewer pipes
deeper than two feet from the surface, provided a fall of one-eighth inch to
the foot can be obtained.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-126 SAME; MATERIALS.
   All sewer pipes under a building shall be cast iron, Schedule 40, Type 1,
poly vinyl chloride meeting standard specification A.S.T.M. D-2665-78 or
acrylonitrile butadiene styrene meeting standard specification A.S.T.M. D-2662-
78. Poly vinyl chloride sewer pipe may also be used in the right-of-way of any
public or private street, alley, or way meeting specification A.S.T.M. D-
3034.81.
(Ord. 2763, passed - -1982)
§ 4-3-127 SAME; DIAMETER.
   All sewer pipe, except common laterals and branch sewer pipe, from the sewer
main to the stub from the building shall be at least four inches in diameter.
Common laterals shall be not less than six inches in diameter, and branch sewer
pipe shall be not less than three inches in diameter.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-128 WASTE AND VENT PIPING; SOIL STACKS; MATERIALS.
   All waste pipes, soil stacks, and vent pipes shall be cast iron, soil
stacks, and vent pipes shall be cast iron, copper, galvanized steel, or
Schedule 40, Type 1, poly vinyl chloride meeting standard specification
A.S.T.M. D-2665-78; or acrylonitrile butadiene styrene meeting standard
specification A.S.T.M. D-2662-78.
(Ord. 2763, passed - -1982)
§ 4-3-129 SAME; SUPPORT.
   All waste pipes, soil stacks, and vent pipes shall be properly supported.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-130 ROOF DRAINS; MUD TRAPS.
   No rainwater leaders, roof drains, or mud interceptor (traps) shall be
connected to a sanitary sewer; provided, if a storm sewer is not available to
which a satisfactory connection of a mud interceptor (trap) could be made, a
special permit to connect a mud interceptor (trap) to a sanitary sewer may be
issued by the Plumbing Inspector if he or she finds that the waste to be
drained through the mud interceptor (trap) will not interfere with, or cause
problems with respect to, the operation of the city’s sewer system. A permit to
connect a mud interceptor (trap) to a sanitary sewer, if issued, may contain
reasonable restrictions concerning use of the mud interceptor (trap).
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-131 MUD TRAPS; USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any mud interceptor (trap)
connected to a sanitary sewer of the city any material other than mud and water
resulting from the washing of vehicles.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§§ 4-3-132 – 4-3-135 RESERVED.
PLUMBING FIXTURES; ACCOMMODATIONS
§ 4-3-136 WOODEN SINKS, WASH TRAYS, AND BATHTUBS; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS;
PERMIT.
   Wooden sinks, wash trays, and bathtubs are hereby prohibited in any
building; provided, wooden sinks or vats may be used by engravers, battery
stations, and photographers in work in which strong acids are used, upon
obtaining a special permit from the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-137 VENTILATION; REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   No plumbing fixture shall be installed in any room or compartment which does
not contain a window, opening on a street, yard, court, or vent shaft, or which
is not otherwise provided with proper ventilation by means of a local vent
pipe. Fan exhaust systems of ventilation serving toilet and/or urinal rooms
shall be so designed and operated as to provide a complete change of air in not
to exceed five minutes. Local vent pipes serving toilet or urinal rooms or
compartments shall be constructed of sheet metal and have not less than 36
square inches of cross-sectional area, and shall extend from the ceiling to and
above the roof, or terminate not less than ten feet from any door, window, or
other opening in a building that is used for ventilation purposes or as a means
of fresh air supply.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§§ 4-3-138 – 4-3-141 RESERVED.
GAS LINES
§ 4-3-142 MAIN-TO-CURB LINES; INSTALLATION; BY WHOM.
   All main-to-curb lines shall be installed by the gas company.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-143 SERVICE LINE; INSTALLATION; TESTING; INSPECTION; BY WHOM.
   Service lines shall be installed by a licensed plumber or gas fitter. They
shall be tested and inspected by the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-144 SAME; LOCATION.
   Service lines leading from the property line to the meter location shall be
buried to a depth of not less than 24 inches and at a distance of at least 36
inches from any existing ditch or ditches. The point at which a service line
enters a building must be above the finished grade. Service lines shall be
installed in a location permitting proper location of the gas meter. The
locations of service lines and meters shall be selected by the gas company.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-145 SAME; MATERIAL; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Service line pipe shall be black malleable iron pipe not less than one
and one-fourth inch in diameter, and mill-wrapped with wrapping that, as
determined by the Plumbing Inspector, will afford proper protection. In the
alternative, service line pipe may be polyethylene pipe which meets or exceeds
all requirements set forth in ASTM D2513.
   (B)   Where laid on the surface of the ground, or beneath the surface of
ground over which is to be poured concrete or similar material, the service
line pipe shall be enclosed in tile or steel pipe ducts.
(Ord. 3532, passed - -1997)
§ 4-3-146 EXPOSED LINES AND DEVICES; PROTECTION.
   Gas lines installed above ground outside a building, or that are exposed to
unusually damp conditions, shall be coated or wrapped with a protective
covering approved by the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-147 HOUSE GAS PIPING; MATERIAL.
   All house gas piping shall be black malleable iron or corrugated stainless
steel tubing, except that nonferrous metal pipe may be used to connect a built-
in gas appliance with the stop cock on the service line, if authorized in
writing by the Plumbing Inspector, and A.G.A. rated and approved pipe may be
used to connect a gas appliance. Rubber hose connections shall not be used
except for intermittently used appliances such as Bunsen-type laboratory
burners.
(Ord. 3223, passed - -1992)
§ 4-3-148 SAME; FITTINGS; STOP COCKS.
   No bushings or cast iron fittings, except cast iron body stop cocks, may be
used. No cement of any kind shall be used to repair faulty fittings. Provisions
shall not be made for rubber hose connections, except for intermittently used
appliances, such as Bunsen-type laboratory burners. Unions shall not be used in
any lines, except to connect appliances, for which purpose the union shall be
placed between the valve above the floor and the appliance. Right and left
couplings shall be used in connecting lines. All gas appliances shall have a
stop cock on the connection one inch above the floor and not more than five
feet from the appliance. Pipe joint cement may be used on male threads only.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-149 GAS PIPES; CONCEALED; INSIDE FLUE; PROHIBITED.
   No gas pipes shall be concealed or shall run up or through any flue.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§ 4-3-150 NATURAL GAS; TURNING ON AND OFF; RESTRICTIONS.
   Gas service shall not be turned on or off at the meter except by an employee
of the gas company.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§§ 4-3-151 – 4-3-154 RESERVED.
HEATING UNITS
§ 4-3-155 GAS APPLIANCES AND ACCESSORIES; SPECIFICATIONS; GENERAL.
   Every gas appliance and accessory shall have an input rating for high
altitude operation, established by a testing laboratory approved by the
Plumbing Inspector, that is not less than the gas supply, and shall otherwise
comply with applicable American Standard Approval or Listing Requirements
covering safe operation, construction, and performance. Every gas appliance and
accessory shall bear the label of a nationally recognized testing agency, such
as American Gas Association.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2382, passed - -1978)
§§ 4-3-156 – 4-3-159 RESERVED.
VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
§ 4-3-160 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. Each
day’s failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with such provisions shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense.
ARTICLE 4: PUBLIC SERVICE EQUIPMENT
Section
   
4-4-1   Gas mains and pipelines; location
   
4-4-2   Same; construction; permit
   
4-4-3   Same; installation; authority
   
4-4-4   Same; removal; relocation; authority; notice
   
4-4-5   Poles; wires; construction; Electrical Inspector; authority
   
4-4-6   Violations; penalty
§ 4-4-1 GAS MAINS AND PIPELINES; LOCATION.
   All gas mains, pipelines, and all appurtenances thereto of public service
companies shall be constructed in such manner that they will not interfere with
the water system, the sewer system, or the wires, lines, equipment, or any
apparatus on the poles and arms of any public utility located on the same
street or alley, or with travel through the streets and alleys of the city, or
with buildings now erected or that hereafter maybe erected. No gas mains or
pipelines shall be laid in the same trench with the water or sewer pipes in any
street, alley, or public grounds in the city, or nearer than three feet to any
water or sewer pipe. They shall be confined to alleys where possible.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 4-4-2 SAME; CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT.
   Gas mains, pipelines, and all appurtenances thereto of public service
companies shall be erected or located over, upon or under the streets, alleys,
and common grounds, or elsewhere, within the city only after application shall
have been made to the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager, and
permission in writing so to do shall have been granted by the City Manager or
his or her designee.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 4-4-3 SAME; INSTALLATION; AUTHORITY.
   Gas mains, pipelines, and appurtenances thereto shall be installed at such
places and in such manner as the City Manager or the designee of the City
Manager shall designate.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 4-4-4 SAME; REMOVAL; RELOCATION; AUTHORITY; NOTICE.
   Whenever it becomes necessary for the city to use the ground where gas
mains, pipelines, and appurtenances thereto are located, or whenever reasonable
means of ingress or egress to private or public property or the public safety
or convenience requires the relocation of gas mains, pipelines, or other
appurtenances that occupy any portion of the public street or alley from lot
line to lot line, the City Manager or another city employee designated by the
City Manager shall notify the public service company or companies or their
agents, at the city, to remove such gas mains, pipelines, or appurtenances, and
shall designate some place as close as possible where they may be reset or
placed. Such public service company or companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving such notice, cause such gas mains, pipelines, or appurtenances to be
removed. Provided, nothing in this article shall abridge, modify, or nullify
the provisions of any franchise, resolution, or ordinance relating to public
service companies.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 4-4-5 POLES; WIRES; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this article, insofar as they are relevant, shall apply
also to the erection, location, placing, setting, moving, relocating,
replacing, resetting, and removing of poles, wires, conduits, and all
appurtenances thereto of public service companies, except as in this section
otherwise provided. As to such equipment, the Electrical Inspector shall have
and exercise the powers and duties that by the terms of such sections are
vested in the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager with respect to
gas mains, pipelines, and appurtenances thereto. The Electrical Inspector shall
so direct the placing, stringing, and attaching of wires upon poles erected in
the streets and alleys of the city that the same shall cause as little
obstruction, either to travel in the streets or to the use and enjoyment of
private property, as is compatible with the public interest.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 4-4-6 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation.
ARTICLE 5: TELEVISION AND RADIO ANTENNA SYSTEMS
Section
Definitions
   
4-5-1   Generally
   
4-5-2   Antenna
   
4-5-3   Height
   
4-5-4   Mast
   
4-5-5   Person
General Provisions
   
4-5-6   Compliance with article; required
   
4-5-7   Approved construction and materials
   
4-5-8   Construction standards
DEFINITIONS
§ 4-5-1 GENERALLY.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this article.
§ 4-5-2 ANTENNA.
   ANTENNA. The outdoor part of the equipment used for transmitting or
receiving television or radio signals into or from space.
§ 4-5-3 HEIGHT.
   HEIGHT. The overall vertical length of the antenna system above the ground,
or, if such system be located on a building, then above the ground level of
such building.
§ 4-5-4 MAST.
   MAST. The part of the outside antenna system to which the antenna is
attached, and the support or extension required to elevate the antenna to a
height deemed necessary for adequate operation.
§ 4-5-5 PERSON.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-5-6 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; REQUIRED.
   All television or radio transmission or receiving antenna systems shall
comply with the requirements of this article.
§ 4-5-7 APPROVED CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIALS.
   No electrical materials, devices, or equipment designed for attachment to or
installation in any electrical circuit or system for television or radio
antennas shall be installed or used unless they are in conformity with approved
methods of construction for safety to life and property. As to matters not
covered by the preceding provisions of this subchapter, all materials, devices,
and equipment shall conform to the standards of the Underwriters’ Laboratories,
Inc., or other qualified testing laboratories (as determined by the Chief
Building Inspector) current as of the time of installation, and the
installation thereof shall meet the requirements of the National Electrical
Code. The provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed to be supplemental to
all other provisions of the municipal code relating to the construction and
maintenance of buildings and structures, and electrical work, and all
television and radio transmission and receiving systems shall also conform to
the requirements of the other provisions.
(Ord. 3162, passed - -1990)
§ 4-5-8 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All television or radio transmission or receiving antenna systems
constructed or caused to be constructed by a public service company or
corporation engaged in the business of transmitting or receiving television or
radio signals into or from space, and any television or radio transmission or
receiving antenna tower that extends in excess of 70 feet above the ground
shall be constructed and maintained in good repair in accordance with the
published standards of Electronic Industries Association dated November, 1966,
entitled Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting
Structures, RS-222-A. Provided, any television or radio antenna tower that
extends in excess of 70 feet above the ground shall be supported upon the
ground.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1641, passed - -1967)
ARTICLE 6: UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
4-6-1   Unsafe building and structure; unlawful; nuisance
   
4-6-2   Definitions
   
4-6-3   Wind energy conversion system
   
4-6-4    – 4-6-6Reserved
   
4-6-7   Notice; how; when given; affidavit
Administration of Law
   
4-6-8   Inspection; Planning and Building Official
   
4-6-9   Determination; order; notice to interested parties
   
4-6-10   Same; contents
   
4-6-11   Same; order; time for compliance
   
4-6-12   Same; notice; posting; affidavit
   
4-6-13   Same; order; compliance and hardship
   
4-6-14   Standards for repair, rehabilitation, vacation, and demolition
   
4-6-15   Same; building permits; stay
   
4-6-16   Hearing, notice, and stay
   
4-6-17   Hearing; conduct of; decision
   
4-6-18   Same; demolition; removal of materials and debris; by city
   
4-6-19   Same; material and debris; sale and disposition
   
4-6-20   Same; repair and demolition; sale; report; certificates
   
4-6-21   Same; expense of repair, demolition, and removal; payment
   
4-6-22   Same; expense of repair, demolition, and removal; assessment
   
4-6-30   Emergency order; subsequent procedure
   
4-6-32   Rights and remedies; cumulative
   
4-6-33   City officials, employees, and agents; liability; defense
   
4-6-34    – 4-6-38Reserved
Violations; Penalty
   
4-6-39   Violations; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Unsafe buildings, see Neb. RS 18-1722 and 18-1722.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 4-6-1 UNSAFE BUILDING AND STRUCTURE; UNLAWFUL; NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building or structure
within the corporate limits of the city to cause or permit such building or
structure to become or remain an unsafe building or structure within the
meaning of this article. Any such building or structure is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and shall be repaired, rehabilitated, vacated, or
demolished, as the case may be, as provided in this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2523, passed - -1979)
§ 4-6-2 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which have any of the following defects
are hereby declared to be unsafe buildings or structures:
      (1)   All buildings or structures having one or more walls or other
vertical structural members which list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that
a plumb line passing through the center of gravity of the lean, list, or buckle
point falls outside of the middle third of the base of the wall or structural
member;
      (2)   All buildings or structures which, exclusive of the foundation,
show 33% or more of damage or deterioration of a supporting member or members,
or 50% or more of damage or deterioration of the non-supporting part of the
enclosing or outside walls or covering;
      (3)   All buildings or structures the floor or roof of which bears a load
or loads of such weight as to create a danger of collapse of the building or
structure, or any part thereof;
      (4)   All buildings or structures having a part or parts which are so
attached that they may fall and injure the occupants or members of the public
or property;
      (5)   All buildings or structures which have been damaged by fire, wind,
or other cause so as to have become dangerous to life, safety, or the general
health and welfare of the occupants or the people of the city; and
      (6)   All buildings or structures which have become or are so
dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, or unsanitary as to be likely to cause sickness
or disease, so as to work injury to the health, safety or general welfare of
the occupants or the people of the city.
   (B)   Whenever used in this article, the following words shall have the
meaning indicated unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      INTERESTED PARTY.
         (a)   Any entity shown by records in the office of the County Register
of Deeds to have or claim an interest in the building or structure which is the
subject of a determination and order as described in this article; or
         (b)   Any tenant occupying such building or structure.
      OFFICIAL. The Planning and Building Official of the city.
      TENANT. An entity in physical possession of or occupying all or part of
the building or structure in question whose name does not appear in the records
of the County Register of Deeds as an owner of such building or structure.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-3 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM.
   A wind energy conversion system, and any component thereof, constitutes a
structure within the meaning of this article.
(Ord. 1771, passed - -1982)
§§ 4-6-4 – 4-6-6 RESERVED.
§ 4-6-7 NOTICE; HOW; WHEN GIVEN; AFFIDAVIT.
   (A)   All notices required by this article shall be given by the City
Manager or such employee of the city to whom the City Manager delegates the
task of giving the notice. Any investigation to determine the name and address
of an interested party shall be conducted by the City Manager or such employee
of the city to whom the City Manager delegates the task of conducting such
inquiry.
   (B)   All notices required by this article shall be in writing, shall be
dated, and may be given in any manner reasonably calculated to give the
interested party to whom the notice is directed actual knowledge of the
contents of the notice.
   (C)   Notice to an owner shall be deemed properly given if sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the address shown in the records of the
County Treasurer for the owner of the building or structure in question.
   (D)   Notice to a lien holder shall be deemed properly given if sent by
mailed certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address, if any, shown
on the lien document filed in the office of the Register of Deeds.
   (E)   Notice to a tenant shall be deemed properly given if mailed certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the building or structure in
question. Reasonable inquiry shall be made to determine the name of the tenant
or tenants. If after reasonable inquiry the name of the tenant or tenants
cannot be found, such notice shall be sent, certified mail, return receipt
requested, to “tenant or tenants” at the address of the building or structure
in question. This division (E) shall not be construed to require notice to a
tenant to be mailed; such notice maybe given in any manner authorized by
division (B) above.
   (F)   If after diligent investigation and inquiry the address of an
interested party cannot be ascertained, and no other means of giving notice is
available, notice may be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of such interested party.
   (G)   If any person upon whom a notice is required to be served under this
article is deceased, the notice shall be issued to, and copies shall be served
upon, the duly appointed personal representative, if any, of the estate; the
surviving spouse, if any, of the deceased; and all heirs the name of whom can
be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence.
   (H)   If an interested party is deceased, and after diligent investigation
and inquiry the names, residence, place of abode, or whereabouts of the heirs,
devisees, personal representatives, or other persons interested in the estate
of such named person deceased cannot be ascertained, notice may be published
addressed to “the heirs, devisees, legatees, personal representatives, and all
other persons interested in the estate of such named person deceased”, “real
names unknown”.
   (I)   If after diligent investigation and inquiry, the name, residence, or
address of an interested party, not deceased, cannot be ascertained, notice
shall be published addressed to “all persons having or claiming to have an
interest in”, followed by a legal description of the lot or tract where the
building or structure in question is located.
   (J)   Any notice given by certified mail shall be deemed to have been given
on the date that such notice was mailed.
   (K)   (1)   Any notice given by publication shall be published once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, and shall be deemed to have been
given on the date of such publication.
      (2)   If notice by publication is given, notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place on the building or structure to which the notice relates.
   (L)   If, for any reason, a notice shall be determined to have been
insufficient or defective, then such continuances or extensions of time as
justice requires may be granted.
   (M)   After the giving of notice in any manner, the person giving the notice
shall prepare and execute an affidavit. A copy of the notice shall be attached
to the affidavit. The affidavit shall state that attached is a true copy of the
notice which was served, the names of the persons upon whom the notice was
served, and the date and manner of service. If the notice was published, an
affidavit by the printer of publication shall be obtained.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
ADMINISTRATION OF LAW
§ 4-6-8 INSPECTION; PLANNING AND BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Planning and Building Official, or his or her duly appointed deputies,
may inspect or cause to be inspected all public or quasi-public buildings,
schools, halls, churches, theaters, hotels, tenements, commercial offices,
manufacturing or loft buildings, and all structures that are not buildings, for
the purpose of determining their structural safety. Whenever the Official shall
receive information that any other type of building or portion thereof in the
city violates the provisions of this article, the Official or his or her duly
appointed deputies may inspect or cause to be inspected such building,
structure, or portion thereof. It shall be the duty of every owner, agent,
lessee, or occupant of any building or structure to permit such an inspection
at any reasonable time.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2565, passed - -1980)
§ 4-6-9 DETERMINATION; ORDER; NOTICE TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   If the Official, upon inspection by him or her or his or her duly appointed
deputy, shall find a building or structure to be unsafe as defined in this
article one or more violations of this article, the Official shall proceed
forthwith to make such a determination in writing and enter an order to repair,
vacate, or demolish the building or structure. Notice of the determination and
the order, and a copy of such determination and order and shall be given to
interested parties within three business days after the determination is made.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-10 SAME; CONTENTS.
   The order and determination shall contain:
   (A)   A description of the respects in which the Official has found the
building or structure to be an unsafe building or structure within the meaning
of this article;
   (B)   A specification of the action required of the interested parties. The
Official may order the building or structure repaired, vacated, or demolished
in whole or in part;
   (C)   A specification of the time within which the action required of the
interested parties is to be completed;
   (D)   A statement that if the interested parties do not comply with the
order within the time provided that the city may cause the required action to
be carried out and levy the cost thereof as a special assessment against the
real estate upon which the building or structure in question is located. The
assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and may be collected in the
manner provided for special assessments;
   (E)   A statement that the interested party may have a hearing before the
City Manager;
   (F)   A statement that if such a hearing is desired, it must be requested in
writing, mailed, or delivered to the City Clerk, within 20 days after the order
and determination described in §
4-6-9 of this article is dated;
   (G)   A statement that the City Manager may, after such hearing, affirm or
modify the order of the Planning and Building Official, and that the interested
party may appeal the decision of the City Manager to the appropriate court; and
   (H)   If the Official shall determine that the building is unsafe for
occupancy pending repair or rehabilitation, the order shall include an order
that the building be vacated within a time specified in the order, and that it
not be reoccupied without a written permit from the Official.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-11 SAME; ORDER; TIME FOR COMPLIANCE.
   In determining the time to be allowed to complete any required action, the
Planning and Building Official and, if a hearing is requested, the City
Manager, shall consider all relevant factors, including but not limited to the
nature of the action required, any hardship resulting to interested parties,
and the nature of the hazard presented by the unsafe building or structure in
question. If the Planning and Building Official or, if a hearing is requested,
the City Manager, shall determine that a building or structure, or a portion
thereof, is so unsafe, or is unsafe in a respect such that a delay in
repairing, rehabilitating, vacating, or demolishing the building or structure
would result in undue danger or other hazard to persons or property, he or she
may declare that there exists an emergency requiring that the order to repair,
rehabilitate, vacate or demolish be carried out immediately.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-12 SAME; NOTICE: POSTING; AFFIDAVIT.
   Upon making a determination that a building or structure is unsafe and
entering an order to repair, rehabilitate, vacate or, as the case may be,
demolish the building or structure, the Planning and Building Official shall
issue and cause to be posted a written notice as herein provided. The notice
shall summarize the determination and order which have been made, be printed or
type-written upon cardboard or other material of equivalent durability, and be
posted in two or more conspicuous places on the exterior of the building or
structure. Upon completion of such posting, the Official shall sign and cause
to be filed in the office of the City Clerk an affidavit, to which shall be
attached and in which shall be incorporated by reference a copy of the posted
notice, and which shall identify the building or structure upon which the
notice was posted and the tract of land upon which the building or structure
was situated and shall specify the date of the posting and the locations of the
posting upon the building or structure, and the person by whom the posting was
done.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2565, passed - -1980)
§ 4-6-13 SAME; ORDER; COMPLIANCE AND HARDSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any
order of the Planning and Building Official or, after a hearing, of the City
Manager, issued pursuant to this article. Provided, if the Official or, after a
hearing, the City Manager, shall find that compliance with the order within the
time specified in the order would create undue hardship to the owner or
occupant of the building and that delay would not involve undue hazard or
injury to persons or property, an extension of time may be granted within which
such extended time compliance with the order shall be completed. Such finding,
the grounds therefor, and the order of extension shall be in writing.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-14 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, REHABILITATION, VACATION, AND DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Official and
the City Manager in ordering repairs, rehabilitation, vacation, or demolition.
   (A)   If the cost of repairing or rehabilitating an unsafe building so that
it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this article does not
exceed 50% of the actual appraised value of the building as shown by the
records of the office of the County Assessor, it shall be ordered repaired or
rehabilitated.
   (B)   If the unsafe building is in such condition as to render it dangerous
to the health, safety, or general welfare of its occupants, it shall be ordered
to be vacated.
   (C)   In any case where the cost of repair or rehabilitation of the unsafe
building so that it no longer will exist in violation of the terms of this
article is in excess of 50% of the actual appraised value of the building as
shown by the records of the office of the County Assessor, it shall be ordered
demolished unless repaired or rehabilitated so that it no longer will exist in
violation of the terms of this article.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-15 SAME; BUILDING PERMITS; STAY.
   After an order has been made by the Planning and Building Official as
provided in this article, no building permit shall be issued in respect of the
building which is the subject of such report, except with the consent and
approval of the Planning and Building Official.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-16 HEARING, NOTICE, AND STAY.
   (A)   A request for a hearing as provided in this article shall stay the
order of the Official. Upon receipt of a request for hearing as provided in
this article, the City Manager shall set a date, time, and place for a hearing,
and shall give notice to the interested party who requested the hearing. Such
notice shall be given no less than seven days before the date of the hearing.
   (B)   Such notice shall:
      (1)   State the date, time, and place of the hearing;
      (2)   Advise such interested party that he or she may be represented by
an attorney; and
      (3)   Advise such interested party that at the hearing the city and the
interested party may present evidence relevant to the question of whether the
building or structure in question is in fact unsafe, and if so, what is
necessary to correct the situation and what orders should be made.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-17 HEARING; CONDUCT OF; DECISION.
   The City Manager shall preside at such hearing. The interested party who
requested a hearing may be represented by an attorney. If deemed necessary or
appropriate by the City Manager, the City Attorney or Deputy City Attorney
shall represent the city. The city shall first present the reasons supporting
the determination and order made by the Planning and Building Official. The
interested party who requested the hearing may then present evidence in
opposition to such order and determination. An interested party who did not
request a hearing may not participate in the hearing, although such interested
party may be a witness. The Nebraska Evidence Rules shall not be in effect at
such hearing. The City Manager may allow the parties or their attorneys to
argue the matter after the reception of evidence. The City Manager shall not be
bound in any manner by the determination and order of the Planning and Building
Official but shall consider the matter de novo and shall make an independent
decision. The City Manager may affirm, reverse, or modify the determination and
order of the Planning and Building Official. The City Manager shall make a
written decision within seven days after the conclusion of the hearing and
shall notify the parties of such decision in the manner provided in this
article.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-18 SAME; DEMOLITION; REMOVAL OF MATERIALS AND DEBRIS; BY CITY.
   If the Official or, after a hearing, the City Manager, shall order a
building or structure repaired or demolished and debris removed by the city as
provided in this article, and the owner shall fail or refuse to comply with the
order in whole, or in part, within the time specified in the order, the
Planning and Building Official shall in writing so report to the City Manager
and submit to the City Manager an estimate concerning the cost of the repair or
demolition and removal, and a recommendation concerning the manner in which the
repair, demolition, and removal shall be effected. If it shall appear to the
City Manager that the aggregate cost of the repair or demolition and removal
work will not exceed the sum of $7,500, the City Manager, shall in writing so
determine and, in his or her sound discretion, shall order either that the
repair or demolition and the removal work be done by employees of the city
under the direction of the Official, or that the work be done by a private
contractor, subject to inspection and approval of the work by the Official. If
the City Manager shall determine that the work shall be done by employees of
the city under the direction of the Official, the Official shall proceed with
the repair or demolition of the building or structure and removal from the lot
or tract of all materials and debris, and he or she shall place the lot or
tract in a safe condition. If the City Manager shall determine that the work
shall be done by a private contractor, he or she shall also determine in
writing whether the taking of bids would be likely to result in the lowest cost
and, depending upon his or her decision in that respect, shall make appropriate
arrangements for a contract with a private contractor for that purpose. Such
bids may be solicited in any manner which, in the sound discretion of the City
Manager, is the best suited to eliciting the lowest and best bid, but the bids
shall be in writing. No repair, demolition, or removal work shall be commenced
by a private contractor until a written contract therefor shall have been
signed by the contractor and the city, the latter, by the Mayor or, in case of
his or her absence or disability, by the Vice President of the City Council. If
it shall appear to the City Manager that the aggregate cost of the repair or
demolition and removal work will exceed the sum of $7,500, the City Manager
shall in writing so determine, and shall submit to the City Council, the
estimate of cost, together with a recommendation by the City Manager that the
city advertise for bids for such work as provided in Neb. RS 16-321. All
repair, demolition, or removal work done by a private contractor, whether done
pursuant to a bid accepted by the City Council, or otherwise, shall be subject
to inspection and approval by the City Manager or the delegee of the City
Manager. Provided however, that if the City Council shall find that there
exists an emergency as provided in Neb. RS 16-321, may, by an ordinance adopted
by three-fourths of the members of the City Council, waive estimates of cost
and advertising for bids where the apparent cost of the work will exceed
$7,500, and the expense of such repair, demolition, and removal may be paid as
provided in this article and assessed against the lot or tract as provided in
this article.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-19 SAME; MATERIAL AND DEBRIS; SALE AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Where pursuant to an order of the Official or, after a hearing, the
City Manager, an unsafe building or structure has been repaired or demolished
and the materials and debris removed or, as the case may be, is about to be
repaired or demolished and removed, the Official shall sell, or if there
appears to him or her to be a substantial doubt whether the gross proceeds of
sale will exceed the expenses of sale, shall otherwise dispose of the materials
and debris. The sale shall be at private sale or public auction, as will in the
discretion of the Official be likely to realize the largest amount of proceeds
after payment of the expenses of sale. The proceeds of sale shall be applied in
payment, in the following order, of:
      (1)   The expenses of sale;
      (2)   The expenses incurred by the city in the proceedings to have the
building or structure determined to be an unsafe building and, as the case
maybe, a nuisance and, if a special assessment is to be made, the estimated
expense of levying such assessment;
      (3)   The expense of repair or demolition of the building or structure
and removal of the material and debris;
      (4)   Unpaid general taxes on the building, structure, lot, or tract; and
      (5)   Unpaid special assessments against the lot or tract.
   (B)   The balance, if any, of the proceeds shall be paid to interested
parties as their interest may appear. If any of such expenses shall have been
paid by the city prior to the sale, the proceeds shall be paid into the fund
out of which the expenses were paid, to the same extent that they would have
been applied in payment of the expenses had the expenses not been paid
initially out of the fund.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-20 SAME; REPAIR AND DEMOLITION; SALE; REPORT; CERTIFICATES.
   Where pursuant to an order of the Official or, after a hearing, the City
Manager an unsafe building or structure has been repaired or demolished and
materials and debris have been removed, the Official shall file with the City
Clerk a written report thereof. The report shall identify the building or
structure and the lot or tract; state the name and address of the owner and of
any other person having, or appearing or claiming to have, an interest therein;
state that the owner of the building or structure did not complete repair or
demolition thereof and removal of the materials and debris from the lot or
tract within the time specified by the order of the Official, or after a
hearing, the City Manager; state the date or dates when the repair, demolition,
and removal were completed by the city; and, in the event that the work was
performed otherwise than under a contract let by the City Council, state the
cost, in itemized form, of the work. If the work was performed by a private
contractor, the report shall contain a certificate of the Official that the
work was performed in accordance with the contract; and, if the contract was
one which was let by the City Council, there shall also be attached to the
report a certificate of the City Manager or the delegee of the City Manager
that the work was performed in accordance with the contract.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-21 SAME; EXPENSE OF REPAIR, DEMOLITION, AND REMOVAL; PAYMENT.
   When a report and certificate of the Official and, as the case may be, a
certificate of the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager shall have
been filed with the City Clerk as provided in this article, the City Council
may authorize payment of the expenses so certified.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-22 SAME; EXPENSE OF REPAIR, DEMOLITION, AND REMOVAL; ASSESSMENT.
   Where an unsafe building or structure has been repaired or demolished and
material and debris removed from the lot or tract pursuant to an order made in
accordance with this article, the City Council, after notice and hearing as
provided in Neb. RS 16-707, and either prior or subsequent to a sale of the
removed materials and debris as provided in this article, may by ordinance
specially assess the cost of such repair, demolition, and removal against the
lot or tract. Any such assessment shall be a lien on the lot or tract on which
levied from the date of passage of the assessment ordinance, shall become
delinquent in 20 days after such date, shall draw interest at the rate of 6%
per annum from such date until the assessment shall become delinquent, and
thereafter shall draw interest at the rate of 9% per annum. The City Clerk
shall certify all such assessments to the County Clerk as provided in Neb. RS
16-646 and 16-702.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
§ 4-6-30 EMERGENCY ORDER; SUBSEQUENT PROCEDURE.
   Whenever any person shall fail to comply with an order of the Planning and
Building Official to repair, rehabilitate, vacate, or demolish immediately an
unsafe building or structure and remove the material and debris as provided in
this article, the Official shall forthwith so report to the City Manager, and
the city shall proceed with such repair or demolition and removal as provided
in this article (except that the City Manager may waive estimates of cost and
bidding where the apparent cost of the work will not exceed the sum of $7,500),
and the City Council, if it shall find that there exists an emergency as
provided in Neb. RS 16-321, may, by an ordinance adopted by three-fourths of
the members of the City Council, waive estimates of cost and advertising for
bids where the apparent cost of the work will exceed $7,500, and the expense of
such repair, demolition and removal may be paid as provided in§ 4-6-28 of this
article and assessed against the lot or tract as provided in this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2565, passed - -1980)
§ 4-6-32 RIGHTS AND REMEDIES; CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies provided in this article are in addition to the remedies
provided in other portions of the municipal code, and are not in derogation of
any rights or remedies which the city has under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1901, passed - -1971)
§ 4-6-33 CITY OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND AGENTS; LIABILITY; DEFENSE.
   No officer, or employee or agent of the city shall be personally liable for
any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or permitted in the discharge of his or her office, employment, or
agency under this article. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or
agent of the city as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge
of his or her duties under this article shall be defended by the City Attorney
at the expense of the city until final determination of the proceedings
therein.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1901, passed - -1971)
§§ 4-6-34 – 4-6-38 RESERVED.
VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
§ 4-6-39 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   The following are Class II violations:
      (1)   A violation of any provision of this article;
      (2)   A failure to comply with any order of the Official or the City
Manager made pursuant to this article; and
      (3)   The defacing or removal of a posted placard in violation of this
article.
   (B)   Each day that such noncompliance or other violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3805, passed - -2004)
ARTICLE 7: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
4-7-1   Terms; defined
   
4-7-2   Unlawful acts; enumerated
   
4-7-3   Same; exceptions
   
4-7-4   Fair Housing Commission purpose; general
   
4-7-5   Complaint; filing; form; copy
   
4-7-6   Same; investigation; informal procedures; violations; penalty
   
4-7-7   Same; time for filing; contents; amendments
   
4-7-8   Complaint; answer; oath
   
4-7-9   Burden of proof
   
4-7-10   Investigation; powers
   
4-7-11   Subpoenas; request by complainant or respondent
   
4-7-12   Same; service
   
4-7-13   Procedural noncompliance; unlawful; when
   
4-7-14   Findings and recommendations
   
4-7-15   Denial; interference; unlawful
   
4-7-16   Injunctive relief; recommendations; approval by City Council
   
4-7-17   Failure to show housing; order; injunction
   
4-7-18   Violations; penalty
§ 4-7-1 TERMS; DEFINED.
   For purposes of interpreting this article, the following definitions shall
be used.
   COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if such buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   DISCRIMINATE. Includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by the
person if the modifications may be necessary to afford the person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, when it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
handicapped person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling;
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after September 1, 1991, a failure to
design and construct the dwellings in such a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of the dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within the dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within the dwellings contain the following features
of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Kitchens and bathrooms such that a handicapped person in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American
National Standards Institute standard for buildings and facilities providing
accessibility and usability for physically handicapped people, ANSI A117.1,
shall satisfy the requirements of this definition.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as
or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence for one or more families
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more minors being domiciled with:
         (a)   A parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual; or
         (b)   The designee of a parent or other person having legal custody,
with the written permission of the parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any minor.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
      (2)   HANDICAP shall not include current, illegal use of, or addiction to
a controlled substance as defined in the state statutes.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   RENT. Includes lease, sublease, let, and otherwise grant for consideration
the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental, or
lease of any housing because of race, creed, religion, color, national origin,
sex, handicap, familial status, or ancestry.
   TRANSACTION RELATED TO RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE. Any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
(Ord. 3208, passed - -1992)
§ 4-7-2 UNLAWFUL ACTS; ENUMERATED.
   Except as exempted by this article, it is unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer,
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, refuse to show, or refuse to receive and transmit an offer for a dwelling
to any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, familial
status, or sex;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status, or sex;
   (C)   To make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex or an
intention to make any preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, handicap, familial status, or sex that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   To cause to be made any written or oral inquiry or record concerning
the race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex
of a person seeking to purchase, rent, or lease any housing;
   (F)   To include in any transfer, sale, rental, or lease of housing any
restrictive covenants or honor or exercise or attempt to honor or exercise any
restrictive covenant pertaining to housing;
   (G)   To discharge or demote an employee or agent or discriminate in the
compensation of such employee or agent because of such employee’s or agent’s
compliance with this article;
   (H)   To induce or attempt to induce, for profit, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex;
   (I)   To discriminate in the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   Any person associated with the buyer or renter; or
      (3)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available;
   (J)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with a dwelling because of a handicap of:
      (1)   Such person;
      (2)   Any person associated with such person; or
      (3)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available;
   (K)   For any person or other entity whose business includes engaging in
transactions related to residential real estate to discriminate against any
person in making available such a transaction or in the terms or conditions of
such a transaction because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial
status, or national origin;
   (L)   To deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple listing service, real estate brokers organization, or other service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings or to discriminate against any person in the terms or conditions of
such access, membership, or participation on account of race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, familial status, or sex;
   (M)   To coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any person in the
exercise or enjoyment of or on account of the person have exercised or enjoyed
or having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise of benefits and
rights guaranteed by this article;
   (N)   To refuse to sell or lease a dwelling to an individual on the basis
that the individual, a member of the individual’s family, or a person who will
be residing with the individual is suffering or is suspected of suffering from
human immunodeficiency virus infection or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome;
or
   (O)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company, or
other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business consists in
whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or
to discriminate against the applicant in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex of such
person or of any person associated with the applicant in connection with such
loan or other financial assistance or for the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees,
tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such
loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
(Ord. 3208, passed - -1992)
§ 4-7-3 SAME; EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this article shall:
   (A)   Prohibit a person engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals of
real property from taking into consideration factors other than race, color,
religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status;
   (B)   Prohibit conduct against the person because such person has been
convicted by any court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal manufacture or
distribution of a controlled substance as defined in the state statutes;
   (C)   Require that a dwelling be made available to an individual whose
tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the
property of others;
   (D)   Prohibit a religious organization, association, or society or any
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society from
limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of a dwelling which it owns or operates
for other than commercial purposes to persons of the same religion or from
giving preferences to such persons unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color, national origin, handicap, familial
status, or sex;
   (E)   Prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an
incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or
operates for other than commercial purposes, from limiting the rental or
occupancy of such lodging to its members or from giving preference to its
members; or
   (F)   Prohibit or limit the right of any person or his or her authorized
representative to refuse to rent a room or rooms in his or her own home for any
reason, or for no reason, or to change tenants in his or her own home as often
as desired, except that this exception shall not apply to any person who makes
available for rental or occupancy more than four sleeping rooms to a person or
family within his or her own home.
(Ord. 3208, passed - -1992)
§ 4-7-4 FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION; PURPOSE; GENERAL.
   The purpose of the Fair Housing Commission, in performing the duties set
forth in this article, shall be to ensure that there shall be no discrimination
in the acquisition, ownership, possession, or enjoyment of housing throughout
the city contrary to the Constitution of the state.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-5 COMPLAINT; FILING; FORM; COPY.
   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice may file a complaint with the Fair Housing Commission. The complaint
shall be in writing and be in such form as the Fair Housing Commission
requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Fair Housing Commission shall
furnish a copy of the same to the person or person who allegedly committed the
alleged discriminatory practice.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-6 SAME; INVESTIGATION; INFORMAL PROCEDURES; VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   The Fair Housing Commission shall investigate the complaint and, at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, determine whether probable cause exists to credit
the allegations of the complaint. If the Fair Housing Commission determines
probable cause does exist, it shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the
alleged discriminatory practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation, and persuasion.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-7 SAME; TIME FOR FILING; CONTENTS; AMENDMENT.
   A complaint shall be filed with the Fair Housing Commission by the
complainant within 180 days after the alleged discriminatory practice occurred
or the same shall be waived. The complaint shall state the facts upon which the
allegations of the discriminatory practice are based. Complaints may be
reasonably and fairly amended at any time.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-8 COMPLAINT; ANSWER; OATH.
   Both complaints and answers shall be verified under oath.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-9 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this article, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-10 INVESTIGATION; POWERS.
   In conducting an investigation, the Fair Housing Commission shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and
copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statement of such
persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation.
The Fair Housing Commission, in the manner provided in this article, may issue
subpoenas to compel access to or the production of materials or for the
appearance of persons, and may issue interrogatories to the parties, to the
same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas
or interrogatories were issued or served in aid or a civil action in the
District Court. The Fair Housing Commission also may administer oaths.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-11 SUBPOENAS; REQUEST BY COMPLAINANT OR RESPONDENT.
   Upon written application to the Fair Housing Commission, a complainant or
respondent shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of
subpoenas by and in the name of the Fair Housing Commission to the same extent
and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Fair Housing
Commission itself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a complainant or
respondent shall show on their face the name and address of such party and
shall state that they were issued at his or her request.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-12 SAME; SERVICE.
   Every subpoena issued by the Fair Housing Commission shall be served by an
agent or representative of the Fair Housing Commission.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-13 PROCEDURAL NONCOMPLIANCE; UNLAWFUL; WHEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, association, or
corporation:
   (A)   To willfully fail or neglect to attend and testify or to answer any
lawful inquiry, or to produce records, documents, or other evidence, if in his
or her power to do so, in obedience to a subpoena or lawful order of the Fair
Housing Commission; or
   (B)   With intent to mislead the Fair Housing Commission, to make or cause
to be made any false entry or statement of tact in any complaint, report,
account, record, or other documents submitted to the Fair Housing Commission
pursuant to a subpoena or lawful order of the Fair Housing Commission, to
willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true, and correct
entries in such reports, accounts, records, or other documents, or willfully to
mutilate, alter, or by other means falsify any documentary evidence.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-14 FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   After completion of an investigation and hearing, if any, the Fair Housing
Commission shall make a report in writing to the City Council setting forth
findings of fact and its recommendations, which report shall become a part of
the official records of the city.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-15 DENIAL; INTERFERENCE; UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise of his or her enjoyment of, or on account of his or her
having exercised or enjoyed, or having aided and encouraged any other person in
the exercise of, benefits and rights guaranteed by this article, or to deny to
any person any rights which he or she is entitled to under the provisions of
this article, or is otherwise guaranteed by this article.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-16 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF; RECOMMENDATION; APPROVAL OF CITY COUNCIL.
   When the Fair Housing Commission has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance with this article, and determines it advisable, for a proper
determination of a complaint, that a petition be filed by the city in the
District Court seeking appropriate injunctive relief, and so recommends in
writing to the City Council, the City Council may authorize the filing of such
a petition in the name of the city ex rel the Fair Housing Commission. Such a
recommendation by the Fair Housing Commission, if made, shall be made within 30
days after the Fair Housing Commission determines it has been unable to obtain
voluntary compliance with this article.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-17 FAILURE TO SHOW HOUSING; ORDER; INJUNCTION.
   If the complaint is based on an alleged failure to show the housing
involved, the Fair Housing Commission, after investigation and determination
that probable cause exists for crediting the allegation, may issue its order
that the housing involved be shown to the complainant. The order may be issued
without a hearing. If the respondent refuses without good reason, as determined
by the Fair Housing Commission, to comply with such order within three days,
the Fair Housing Commission may recommend to the City Council that the city
seek appropriate injunctive relief, and the City Council may authorize the city
to seek such relief, as provided in §
4-7-16 of this article.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
§ 4-7-18 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation.
(Ord. 2663, passed - -1981)
ARTICLE 8: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
4-8-1   Definitions; generally
   
4-8-2   Same; overspeed control
   
4-8-3   Same; survival wind speed
   
4-8-4   Same; wind energy conversion system; WECS
   
4-8-5   Same; wind rotor
   
4-8-6   Tower
   
4-8-7   Same; guy wires
   
4-8-8   Wind rotor
   
4-8-9   Electrical components
   
4-8-10   Noise
   
4-8-11   Electromagnetic interference
   
4-8-12   Aviation regulations
   
4-8-13   Building permit application
   
4-8-14   Same; electrical components
   
4-8-15   Warning sign; labeling
   
4-8-16   Power connection; notice
   
4-8-17   Liability insurance
   
4-8-18   Maintenance
   
4-8-19   Violations; penalties
Cross-reference:
Zoning, see Chapter 25
§ 4-8-1 DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   The defined words and phrases in succeeding sections of this article shall
have the meanings there ascribed to them for the purposes of this article
unless the context in which they occur clearly indicates otherwise. Other words
and phrases in this article are defined in Chapter 25 of this code, and such
words and phrases shall also have, for purposes of the present article, the
meanings ascribed to them in such Chapter 25 of this code.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-2 SAME; OVERSPEED CONTROL.
   OVERSPEED CONTROL. A mechanism used to limit the speed of blade rotation to
one that is below the design limits of the WECS.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-3 SAME; SURVIVAL WIND SPEED.
   SURVIVAL WIND SPEED. The maximum wind speed a WECS in automatic unattended
operation (whether or not producing power) can sustain without damage to
structural components or loss of ability to function normally.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-4 SAME; WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM; WECS.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. For purposes of this article, that is
ascribed to it in Chapter 25 of this code. For convenience, the term usually is
abbreviated WECS.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-5 SAME; WIND ROTOR.
   WIND ROTOR. The blades, and the hub to which they are attached, which are
used to capture wind for purposes of energy conversion. A WIND ROTOR is mounted
upon a pole or tower for use.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-6 TOWER.
   Tower construction shall comply with all provisions of §§ 621.0, 621.1,
621.2, 621.3, 621.4, 621.4.1, 621.4.2, 621.5, 622.0, 622.1 and 622.2 of the
BOCA Code as adopted by this chapter. The tower shall have either a tower-
climbing apparatus commencing not lower than 12 feet above the ground, or a
locked anti-climb device installed on the tower, or shall be completely
enclosed by a locked, protective fence not less than six feet in height.
(Ord. 3162, passed - -1990)
§ 4-8-7 SAME; GUY WIRES.
   Anchor points of guy wires for the tower shall be located upon the lot or
tract of land on which the tower is situated. Such wires shall not be located
across any aboveground electrical transmission or distribution lines, and shall
not extend into any required front or side yard building setback areas. The
point of ground attachment for guy wires shall be completely enclosed by a
continuous fence six feet in height.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-8 WIND ROTOR.
   Each WECS shall be equipped with both manual and automatic controls which
will limit the rotational speed of the blade to a speed that is lower than the
design limits of the wind rotor.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-9 ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS.
   All electrical components of a WECS shall comply with the requirements of
Article 2 of this chapter, including but not limited to the National Electrical
Code provisions adopted in such chapter.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-10 NOISE.
   The noise generated by a WECS shall not exceed 65 decibels on the DBA scale,
as measured outdoors at any property line of the lot or tract of land on which
the WECS is located, or 45 decibels as measured inside any residential
structure located on or adjacent to such lot or tract of land.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-11 ELECTROMAGNETIC INTERFERENCE.
   A WECS shall be filtered and/or shielded so as to prevent the emission of
radio-frequency energy which would cause harmful interference with radio and/or
television broadcasting or reception. A WECS shall not be installed in any
location along the major axis of an existing microwave communications link such
that the operation of the WECS may produce a harmful level of electromagnetic
interference. If the Planning and Building Official shall determine that a WECS
is causing harmful interference, the operator shall immediately cease operation
of the system, and shall not resume operation until the harmful interference
has been removed, as determined by the Official.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-12 AVIATION REGULATIONS.
   No WECS shall be erected, maintained, or operated in violation of any
regulation of the Federal Aviation Administration.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-13 BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION.
   An application for a building permit for a WECS shall:
   (A)   Be accompanied by a plot plan drawn in sufficient scale and detail to
clearly show:
      (1)   The property lines and physical dimensions of the lot or tract of
land on which the WECS will be located, and location and dimensions of all
abutting streets and alleys;
      (2)   The location and total height of the WECS;
      (3)   The location of aboveground utility lines on the lot or tract of
land and, whether or not on the lot or tract of land, within a radius equal to
one and one-half times the total height of the WECS; and
      (4)   The location and size (including height) of buildings, structures,
and trees referred to in
Chapter 25, Article 24 of this code, except electrical transmission and
distribution lines, antennas, slender or open lattice towers, and open fences.
   (B)   Be accompanied by standard drawings of the structural components of
the WECS, including the tower support structures, base, and footings; such
drawings and any necessary calculations shall be certified in writing by a
licensed professional engineer licensed to practice in the state, and shall
include a certification that the system, including any structural components or
installation details which vary from the standard design or specifications,
complies with the requirements, including the wind load requirements, of the
BOCA Code;
   (C)   Cite specific wind-speed data, including monthly mean wind speeds for
a period of no less than six months;
   (D)   For the area in which is situated the lot or tract of land, include
WECS design data, including manufacturer’s specification and installation and
operation instructions;
   (E)   Be accompanied by a statement by a state licensed professional
engineer certifying that the rotor and overspeed controls have been designed
and fabricated for the proposed use according to good engineering practices,
and the structural compatibility of available towers with available rotors; and
   (F)   Be accompanied by documentation by the WECS manufacturer that the WECS
model has operated safely in atmospheric conditions for a period of not less
than three months and has provided energy equivalent to not less than 25% of
its predicted annual energy output under a 12 mph annual wind regime.
(Ord. 3162, passed - -1990)
§ 4-8-14 SAME; ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS.
   The drawing of the electrical components which accompanies the application
shall be a line drawing in sufficient detail to enable the Planning and
Building Official to determine that the manner of installation will comply with
the requirements of Article 2 of this chapter, including but not limited to the
National Electrical Code provisions adopted in that chapter, and there shall be
attached to the drawing a statement of an electrician licensed under the laws
of the state that the electrical system complies with the National Electrical
Code, and conforms to good electrical practices. If electrical components
proposed to be installed vary from the standard design or specifications, the
application shall be accompanied, also, by a certificate of a licensed
professional engineer that the modified design or specifications comply with
such National Electrical Code and conforms to good engineering practices.
(Ord. 3162, passed - -1990)
§ 4-8-15 WARNING SIGN; LABELING.
   (A)   Not less than one sign warning of electrical shock or high voltage
shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous location at the base of the
tower.
   (B)   The following information shall also be posted on a label or labels
affixed to the generator or alternator of the WECS:
      (1)   The maximum power output of the system and the wind speed at which
it is achieved;
      (2)   Nominal voltage(s) and maximum current; and
      (3)   The manufacturers name and address, and the serial number and model
number. All of the foregoing information, together with a statement of the
maximum survival wind speed and of emergency and normal shutdown procedures,
shall also be provided on a label or labels posted and easily read at ground
level or located at the WECS control panel.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-16 POWER CONNECTION; NOTICE.
   The person to whom a building permit for a WECS is granted shall, before
connecting the WECS to the grid of a public power district, notify the district
in writing of its intention so to do.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-17 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The owner of the lot or tract of land or, if the WECS is to be erected,
maintained, or operated by some other person, such other person shall maintain
liability insurance covering loss or damage to persons and property by the WECS
in a minimum amount of $200,000, and shall maintain on file in the office of
the Planning and Building Official a certificate of the insurer showing such
coverage.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-18 MAINTENANCE.
   A WECS shall be regularly and properly maintained in good operating
condition.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
§ 4-8-19 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A violation of any provision of this article, including the standard codes
adopted by reference, or any failure to comply with any lawful permit, order,
or notice made or given thereunder, is a Class II violation. Each day that a
violation or noncompliance shall continue after notification by the Planning
and Building Official shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2771, passed - -1982)
ARTICLE 9: SATELLITE EARTH STATIONS
Section
   
4-9-1   Definitions; generally
   
4-9-2   Same; satellite earth station
   
4-9-3   Same; satellite signal, usable
   
4-9-4   Standard codes; compliance
   
4-9-5   Satellite earth station; other specifications; installation
   
4-9-6   Same; modification; permit
   
4-9-7   Violations; penalties
§ 4-9-1 DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   The defined words and phrases in the succeeding sections of this article
shall have the meanings there ascribed to them for the purposes of this article
unless the context in which they occur clearly indicates otherwise. Other words
and phrases in this article are, or hereafter may be, amended, of Chapter 25 of
this code, and such words and phrases shall also have, for purposes of the
present article, the meanings ascribed to them in such Chapter 25 of this code.
(Ord. 2903, passed - -1985)
§ 4-9-2 SAME; SATELLITE EARTH STATION.
   SATELLITE EARTH STATION. An apparatus capable of receiving communications
from a transmitter or transmitter relay located in planetary orbit.
(Ord. 2903, passed - -1985)
§ 4-9-3 SAME; SATELLITE SIGNAL, USABLE.
   SATELLITE SIGNAL, USABLE. A signal which is at least equal in picture
quality to that received from local commercial television stations or by way of
cable television.
(Ord. 2903, passed - -1985)
§ 4-9-4 STANDARD CODES; COMPLIANCE.
   All satellite earth stations and their construction and installation shall
conform to all applicable provisions of the International Building Code and the
National Electric Code as adopted in this chapter.
(Ord. 3606, passed - -1999; Ord. 3796, passed - -2004)
§ 4-9-5 SATELLITE EARTH STATION; OTHER SPECIFICATIONS; INSTALLATION.
   All satellite earth stations shall be constructed of non-combustible and
corrosive resistant material, meet all manufacturer’s specifications concerning
installation, and be erected in a secure, wind-resistant manner.
(Ord. 2903, passed - -1985)
§ 4-9-6 SAME; MODIFICATION; PERMIT.
   No structural or electrical modifications may be made to any satellite earth
station without a building permit approved by the Chief Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2903, passed - -1985)
§ 4-9-7 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A violation of any provision of this article, including the standard codes
to which reference is made, or a failure to comply with any lawful permit,
order, or notice made or given thereunder, is a Class II violation. Each day
that a violation or noncompliance shall continue after notification by the
Planning and Building Official shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2903, passed - -1985)
ARTICLE 10: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
4-10-1   Mobile homes; construction; safety standards
   
4-10-2   Violations; penalties
§ 4-10-1 MOBILE HOMES; CONSTRUCTION; SAFETY STANDARDS.
   All mobile homes shall comply with all mobile home construction and safety
standards adopted by the Nebraska Department of Health under Neb. RS Chapter
71, Article 46, as now existing or hereafter amended.
(Ord. 2907, passed - -1985)
§ 4-10-2 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A violation of any provision of this article, including any mobile home
construction or safety standard adopted by the Nebraska Department of Health
under Neb. RS Chapter 71, Article 46, as now existing or hereafter amended, or
the failure to comply with any lawful permit, order, or notice made or given
under any such provision, is a Class II violation. Each day that a violation or
noncompliance shall continue after notification by the Planning and Building
Official shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2907, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 5: CEMETERIES
Section
   
5-1-1   Cemetery grounds; subdivision monuments and plats; certification and
filing
   
5-1-2   Cemetery records; account keeping
   
5-1-3   Cemetery lots; purchase prices
   
5-1-4   Same; Fairview
   
5-1-5   Conveyance by city; signatures; seal
   
5-1-6   Retransfer of title
   
5-1-7   Speculation; interment for compensation; prohibited
   
5-1-8   Care; city assumes
   
5-1-9   Burial; permit
   
5-1-10   Service charges; Fairview
   
5-1-11   Grave; location; excavation
   
5-1-12   Same; depth
   
5-1-13   Burial vaults; required; exemption
   
5-1-14   Open hours
   
5-1-15   Flowers, plants, shrubbery, trees, and wildlife
   
5-1-16   Signs and notices
   
5-1-17   Littering; refreshments
   
5-1-18   Motor vehicles
   
5-1-19   Children
   
5-1-20   Dogs
   
5-1-21   Firearms
   
5-1-22   Monuments; markers; setting
   
5-1-23   Same; destruction; mutilation
   
5-1-24   Burial; in city; restrictions
   
5-1-25   Rules and regulations
   
5-1-26   Fairview Cemetery; name
   
5-1-27   Same; Perpetual Care Fund; established; donations
   
5-1-28   Same; Perpetual Care Fund; use
   
5-1-29   Violations; penalties
Statutory reference:
   City cemeteries, see Neb. RS 16-241 et seq.
§ 5-1-1 CEMETERY GROUNDS; SUBDIVISION MONUMENTS AND PLATS; CERTIFICATION AND
FILING.
   In laying out cemetery grounds, the corners of the subdivisions shall be
indicated by substantial monuments fixed permanently in the ground as starting
points for future measurements and surveys, and such monuments shall be plainly
indicated on the plats of such grounds. Such plats, when completed, shall be
certified by the surveyor or engineer who made the same, subscribed by the
Mayor and City Clerk under the seal of the city, acknowledged before any
officer authorized by law to make acknowledgment of deeds, and filed for record
in the office of the County Register of Deeds. The filing of such plat shall
operate as a legal vacation of any other plat of subdivisions of such grounds
and of any streets, roads, or avenues passing through such grounds.
§ 5-1-2 CEMETERY RECORDS; ACCOUNT KEEPING.
   The City Manager or the city employee designated by the City Manager shall
keep a true and correct list of cemetery lots sold and to be sold, with the
price thereof, which information shall be indicated and kept current on
accurate maps or plats of the cemetery. A true and accurate account of the
cemetery receipts and expenditures, all other records, plats, papers,
correspondence, and documents pertaining to the cemetery shall be safely kept
and preserved by the City Manager or the city employee designated by the City
Manager.
§ 5-1-3 CEMETERY LOTS; PURCHASE PRICES.
   The purchase price of lots and burial spaces in any cemetery of the city
shall be that fixed by the City Council. Such price shall be adequate to
provide for the perpetual care of the lot or burial space as well as the
cemetery in general.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-4 SAME; FAIRVIEW.
   The purchase price of burial spaces in Fairview Cemetery shall be as
provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 5-1-5 CONVEYANCE BY CITY; SIGNATURES; SEAL.
   All certificates of conveyance of cemetery lots owned by the city shall be
signed and acknowledged by the Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk, under
the seal of the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-6 RETRANSFER OF TITLE.
   Title to a cemetery lot in respect of which a certificate of conveyance
shall have been issued by the city shall be subject to retransfer in the same
manner as title in fee simple to real estate generally; provided, such title
shall be for the sole purpose of interment under regulations of the City
Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-7 SPECULATION; INTERMENT FOR COMPENSATION; PROHIBITED.
   Burial lots shall not be held and used for speculation, and no lot
proprietor shall permit interment in or upon any lot held by him or her for
compensation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-8 CARE; CITY ASSUMES.
   The city agrees to care for all lots, parts of lots, or burial spaces in
cemeteries of the city, now platted or to be platted, in accordance with the
ordinances of the city, and to keep the lots and grounds free from weeds.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-9 BURIAL; PERMIT.
   Every person owning a lot, or part of a lot or burial space in a cemetery of
the city, before he or she shall be entitled to bury upon such lot, part of a
lot, or burial space, shall be required to exhibit to the city employee
designated by the City Manager a burial or removal permit in the form
prescribed by law. A record of such burial or removal permit shall be retained
by the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-10 SERVICE CHARGES; FAIRVIEW.
   The charges be made for services rendered by the city in Fairview Cemetery
shall be as provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 5-1-11 GRAVE; LOCATION; EXCAVATION.
   Upon exhibition of a burial permit, and payment of the grave-digging fee, it
shall be the city employee designated by the City Manager shall locate and
excavate the grave.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-12 SAME; DEPTH.
   The top of the burial vault shall be buried at a depth of not less than two
feet below the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-13 BURIAL VAULTS; REQUIRED; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   All bodies interred in Fairview Cemetery shall be enclosed within a
burial vault constructed of concrete, metal, or fiberglass, except as herein
provided. Upon a request in writing for an exemption from such requirement,
signed by the survivor(s) by whom burial arrangements are being made, the
requirement shall be waived by the Cemetery Supervisor:
      (1) If the Supervisor shall find in writing the deceased held, or that
such survivor(s) hold, a belief, based upon religious or philosophical grounds,
that a body should not be interred within any container constructed of material
(other than wood) which will impede disintegration of the body;
      (2)   If such survivor(s), prior to interment, shall pay into the
Cemetery Fund of the city an additional fee in the amount of $750 to hold the
city harmless from the expense of additional maintenance of the grave or
adjacent areas which may become necessary because of absence of a burial vault;
and
      (3)   If the body is interred in a container constructed of wood.
   (B)   Family columbarium (located on family-owned burial space) will include
event costs for additional right of interment columbarium opening and closing
after funeral space purchase.
(Ord. 2734, passed - -1982; Ord. 4215, passed 7-3-2017; Ord. 4250, passed 10-
21-2019)
§ 5-1-14 OPEN HOURS.
   Cemetery grounds shall be open during hours established by the Director of
Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-15 FLOWERS, PLANTS, SHRUBBERY, TREES, AND WILDLIFE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than an authorized employee of the
city to gather, remove, disturb, or damage flowers, plants, shrubbery, or
trees, either wild or cultivated, or to feed or disturb birds or animal life in
a cemetery of the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-16 SIGNS AND NOTICES.
   No signs, notices, or advertisements shall be erected or placed in a
cemetery of the city, except regulatory or informational signs erected by the
city.
(Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-17 LITTERING; REFRESHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or leave any rubbish upon the cemetery grounds
or cemetery buildings, or to have in possession or consume any refreshments
within the cemetery grounds or buildings. This section shall not be construed
to prohibit city employees assigned to duty in a cemetery from eating their
lunches or having coffee breaks within the cemetery grounds or buildings.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-18 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Motor vehicles shall not be operated within a cemetery of the city at a
speed in excess of 15 mph, shall be operated only on the right side of the
roadways, and at no time, except while in attendance at a funeral, shall be
parked within any of the main roadways or in front of an open grave.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-19 CHILDREN.
   No child under 15 years of age shall come, or be permitted to come, upon the
cemetery grounds or within the cemetery buildings unless accompanied by an
adult.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-20 DOGS.
   No unleashed dog shall be permitted anywhere in the cemetery. Properly
leashed dogs must be kept on the roadways. If a dog defecates within the
cemetery grounds, the person in charge of the dog shall pick up after it.
(Ord. 2177, passed - -1976; Ord. 3421, passed - -1995)
§ 5-1-21 FIREARMS.
   No firearms shall be brought or discharged within the cemetery grounds or
cemetery buildings except for purposes of military services authorized by the
City Manager or the city employee designated by the City Manager.
§ 5-1-22 MONUMENTS; MARKERS; SETTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to set a monument or other
grave marker in a cemetery of the city until such person or firm shall have
procured a written permit from the city employee designated by the City
Manager.
   (B)   Before a permit shall issue, such person or firm shall file with such
employee a bond with two or more sureties, or of a surety company, to be
approved by such employee, in the penal sum of $1,000, conditioned that such
person or firm:
      (1)   Will perform and complete the work in a workmanlike manner, and
will comply with all laws, ordinances, and written rules and regulations
governing monuments and other grave markers, and the setting thereof, in
cemeteries of the city; and
      (2)   Will indemnify the city and hold it harmless from liability for
injuries or damages to persons or property caused in whole or in part by
negligence on the part of such person or firm, or of persons in his, her, or
its employ, in the performance, or in the protection of persons or property
during the performance, of the work, and for any other injuries or damages
sustained by the city as a result in whole or in part of failure on the part of
such person to complete the work, or to do the work in a workmanlike manner.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976; Ord. 4250, passed 10-
21-2019)
§ 5-1-23 SAME; DESTRUCTION; MUTILATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully destroy, mutilate, deface,
injure, or remove any tomb, monument or gravestone, or other structure placed
in any cemetery of the city, or any fence, or railing or other work for the
protection or ornamentation of the cemetery or tombs, monuments or gravestones,
or other structures of the same, or of any cemetery lot within such cemeteries.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-24 BURIAL; IN CITY; RESTRICTIONS.
   No burial of human remains (whether of bodies or cremated remains) may be
made within the city except in a municipal cemetery of the city or except as
otherwise provided herein. Cremated remains may be buried in a columbarium
constructed, in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the
Planning and Building Official, on a lot or tract owned by an incorporated
church organization on which there also exists a church sanctuary building used
for religious purposes.
(Ord. 2435, passed - -1978)
§ 5-1-25 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager may prepare such rules and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the management and care of the cemeteries, and to ensure the
orderly use of the cemeteries by the owners of lots and the public and the
protection thereof from acts of vandalism or malicious mischief. Such rules and
regulations shall be submitted to the City Council for approval and adoption
and, when approved and adopted by the City Council, shall be published in the
manner provided for the publication of ordinances, and at least three copies
thereof shall be kept on file at the office of the City Clerk for public
inspection.
(Ord. 2697, passed - -1981)
§ 5-1-26 FAIRVIEW CEMETERY; NAME.
   The name of the present cemetery shall be “Fairview Cemetery”.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-27 SAME; PERPETUAL CARE FUND; ESTABLISHED; DONATIONS.
   There is hereby created a permanent fund to be known as the “Fairview
Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund” of the city. The City Council may allocate to,
and cause to be deposited in such Fund, such part of the moneys appropriated
for cemetery purposes as, in the discretion of the City Council, is necessary
or desirable. The city may receive money by donation, bequest, or otherwise for
the use and benefit of the cemetery, to be used for such purpose or purposes as
the donor may direct; and insofar as the donor has not otherwise directed, the
City Council may allocate to and cause to be deposited in such Fund such part
of the moneys so received as have been appropriated for cemetery purposes and,
in the discretion of the City Council, is necessary or desirable to be
allocated to and deposited in such fund.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
§ 5-1-28 SAME; PERPETUAL CARE FUND; USE.
   The income derived from the investment of funds in the Fairview Cemetery
Perpetual Care Fund shall be used for the perpetual care of the cemetery.
Perpetual care includes mowing, watering, raking, and cleaning of the cemetery;
the general care and pruning of trees or shrubs placed in the cemetery by the
city; the general preservation of the plots and the grounds, walks, roadways,
boundaries, and structures so that the grounds shall remain and be reasonably
cared for as cemetery grounds forever. Perpetual care shall not include
maintenance, repair, or replacement of any gravestones, monument structures, or
memorials placed or erected on lots or burial spaces, the planting of flowers,
or ornamental plants; the doing of any special or unusual work in the cemetery;
or the reconstruction of any marble, granite, bronze, or concrete work on all
or any portion of any section, lot, or burial space damaged by causes beyond
the control of the city. No part of the principal of the Fund shall be used for
any purpose except for the purchase of additional land.
(Ord. 3172, passed - -1990)
§ 5-1-29 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant to this chapter, is a Class II violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2177, passed - -1976)
CHAPTER 6: CITY GOVERNMENT
   Article
      
1.   CITY COUNCIL AND MAYOR
      
2.   ADMINISTRATION
      
3.   COUNTY COURT
      
4.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
5.   EMPLOYEES’ PENSIONS
      
6.   FEES
      
7.   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE
ARTICLE 1: CITY COUNCIL AND MAYOR
Section
City Council Members
   
6-1-1   City Council member-elect; qualifications; assumption of office
   
6-1-2   Office; surrender to City Council member-elect; when
   
6-1-3   City Council member; City Council member-elect; office; report of
surrender; assumption; change of roll
   
6-1-4   Salary
   
6-1-5   City Council member; conflict of interest; exemption
   
6-1-6    – 6-1-10Reserved
City Council Meetings
   
6-1-11   Council meetings; place
   
6-1-12   Same; regular; time
   
6-1-13   Special meetings; procedure for calling
   
6-1-14   Notice; publication; broadcast
   
6-1-15   Same; service upon City Council
   
6-1-16   Same; content
   
6-1-17   Same; certificate of publication, broadcast, and delivery
   
6-1-17.1   Emergency meetings; procedure
   
6-1-18   Agenda; availability
   
6-1-19   Same; certificate
   
6-1-20   Regular and special meetings; adjournment
   
6-1-21   Quorum; continuance; compelling attendance
   
6-1-22   Roll call; call to order; presiding officer
   
6-1-23   Order of business; general
   
6-1-24   Order of business; referring back
   
6-1-25   Order; preservation; questions of
   
6-1-26   City Council member; speaking
   
6-1-27   Speaker; recognition
   
6-1-28   Motion; second; statement
   
6-1-29   Resolution; motion; writing
   
6-1-30   Resolution; motion; mover
   
6-1-31   Motion; privileged
   
6-1-32   Blanks; form of questions
   
6-1-33   City Council member; leaving room
   
6-1-34   Voting; when required
   
6-1-35   Ordinance; resolution; motion; withdrawal
   
6-1-36   Vote; yeas; nays
   
6-1-37   Motion; to reconsider
   
6-1-38   City Council member; reprimand or censure
   
6-1-39   Rules; suspension
   
6-1-40   Rules; Robert’s Rules of Order
   
6-1-41    – 6-1-44Reserved
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Orders
   
6-1-45   Ordinances, resolutions, and orders; passage; requisites
   
6-1-46   Ordinances; reading; vote record
   
6-1-47    – 6-1-50Reserved
Mayor
   
6-1-51   Mayor; signature; oaths
   
6-1-52   Fines; penalties; remit; reprieve; pardon; Mayor; power
   
6-1-53   Mayor; other duties
   
6-1-54   Repealed
Statutory reference:
   City Council, see Neb. RS 16-401 et seq. and 19-611 et seq.
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
§ 6-1-1 CITY COUNCIL MEMBER-ELECT; QUALIFICATIONS; ASSUMPTION OF OFFICE.
   Each City Council member-elect shall make every reasonable effort to be
qualified to assume, and to assume, his or her office and make demand therefor
at the first regular City Council meeting in December following the general
election in every even-numbered year.
(Ord. 2883, passed - -1984; Ord. 3981, passed - -2008)
§ 6-1-2 OFFICE; SURRENDER TO CITY COUNCIL MEMBER-ELECT; WHEN.
   Each City Council member shall, upon expiration of the term of office for
which he or she is elected, surrender his or her office upon the demand of his
or her successor, which surrender shall be made on the date of the first
regular City Council meeting in December following the election of his or her
successor. Provided, in case his or her successor does not qualify on or before
such date, the incumbent shall hold the office until a successor shall have
been chosen in the manner prescribed by law and qualified for the office.
(Ord. 2883, passed - -1984; Ord. 3981, passed - -2008)
§ 6-1-3 CITY COUNCIL MEMBER; CITY COUNCIL MEMBER-ELECT; OFFICE; REPORT OF
SURRENDER; ASSUMPTION; CHANGE OF ROLL.
   Each City Council member surrendering his or her office and each City
Council member assuming his or her office shall immediately upon such surrender
and assumption report such fact of surrender and
assumption to the City Clerk, who shall accordingly change the roll of City
Council members.
(Ord. 2883, passed - -1994)
§ 6-1-4 SALARY.
   Effective December 3, 1996, the salary of each City Council member shall be
the sum of $3,600 per annum. Effective December 3, 2002, the salary of the
Mayor shall be the sum of $5,200 per annum. Such salaries shall be payable in
installments that, as near as may be, are in equal amounts and shall be payable
in respect of the same pay periods as those for which administrative officers
of the city are paid.
(Ord. 3511, passed - -1996; Ord. 3689, passed - -2001)
§ 6-1-5 CITY COUNCIL MEMBER; CONFLICT OF INTEREST; EXEMPTION.
   As authorized by Neb. RS 49-14,103.06, contracts involving $100 or less in
which a City Council member may have an interest are exempted from the
provisions Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03.
(Ord. 3159, passed - -1990)
§§ 6-1-6 – 6-1-10 RESERVED.
CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS
§ 6-1-11 COUNCIL MEETINGS; PLACE.
   Rule 1. All meetings of the City Council shall be held at City Hall located
at 2525 Circle Drive, Scottsbluff, Nebraska, except as herein provided. In the
event the City Council shall determine that an emergency or public convenience
or necessity require that a public meeting of the City Council be held
elsewhere than in City Hall, the meeting may be held in any place designated by
the City Council. Such place may be inside or outside the corporate limits of
the city. Such place shall be accessible to the public and to handicapped
persons. Any determination that public convenience or necessity so require, and
the designation of the place of the meeting to be held pursuant to such
determination, shall be made by the City Council at a meeting held no less than
three days prior to the meeting to be held elsewhere than in City Hall. Every
determination of such an emergency or of public convenience or necessity shall
include a statement of the grounds and the designation of the place shall
include the street address of the building and identify the room in which the
meeting is to be held. Executive sessions of the City Council which are
authorized by law may, in the discretion of the City Council, be held in any
room in City Hall in which the City Council is meeting.
§ 6-1-12 SAME; REGULAR; TIME.
   Rule 2. Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first,
third, and fifth Mondays of each month at 6:00 p.m., except:
   (A)   If any of the Mondays referred to above shall fall on a city
recognized holiday, the meeting that otherwise would have been held on such a
recognized holiday will be moved to the next day that is not a city recognized
holiday;
   (B)   If the City Council, by majority vote taken at a regular meeting,
determines not to hold its next regularly scheduled Monday meeting; or
   (C)   As otherwise provided in §
6-1-20 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3616, passed - -1999; Ord. 3981, passed - -2008)
§ 6-1-13 SPECIAL MEETINGS; PROCEDURE FOR CALLING.
   Rule 3. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, any two Council members
or the City Manager by filing with the City Clerk a written call therefor,
stating the time of the meeting and its purpose. No other business shall be
transacted at a special meeting, unless all members be present and consent
thereto and the City Council declares the existence of an emergency.
(Ord. 2883, passed - -1984)
§ 6-1-14 NOTICE; PUBLICATION; BROADCAST.
   Rule 3a. The City Clerk shall cause notice of each regular meeting of the
City Council to be published in the Star-Herald, a newspaper published and of
general circulation in the city, one time not less than three days prior to the
date on which the meeting is to be held. Notice of each special meeting of the
City Council shall be published in such newspaper one time not less than one
day prior to the day on which the meeting is to be held or, at the election of
the City Clerk, read not less than four times, the last of which readings shall
be completed not less than six hours prior to the meeting, on any commercial
radio or television station which maintains a studio in the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1943, passed - -1972)
§ 6-1-15 SAME; SERVICE UPON COUNCIL.
   Rule 3b. Simultaneously with publication or, as the case may be, with the
first broadcast of a notice as provided in this article and in no event less
than six hours before a special meeting of the City Council, the City Clerk
shall cause a copy of the notice to be delivered to each City Council member
personally, or by leaving at the usual place of residence of the City Council
member within the city or at such other place within the city as the City
Council member shall previously have authorized by a writing on file in the
office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2883, passed - -1984)
§ 6-1-16 SAME; CONTENT.
   Rule 3c. The notice shall state whether the meeting is a regular or special
meeting, and the date, hour, and place of the meeting. (If the meeting is to be
held in a place other than the City Council chamber in City Hall, the notice
shall include the name and address of the building, and identification by name,
number, or location of the room within the building in which the meeting is to
be held.) If the meeting is a regular meeting, the notice also shall state that
an agenda of the meeting kept continually current is available for public
inspection at the office of the City Clerk, but that a majority of the elected
members of the City Council may modify the agenda at the meeting to include
additional matters which the City Council determines to be of an emergence
nature. If the meeting is a special meeting, the notice shall state, instead,
the purpose of the meeting, and that other business may be transacted at the
meeting if all of the members of the City Council are present and consent
thereto and if, in addition, a majority of the members of the City Council
determine the other business to be of an emergency nature.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957 ; Ord. 2463, passed - -1979)
§ 6-1-17 SAME; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION, BROADCAST, AND DELIVERY.
   Rule 3d. There shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk attached to a
copy of each notice that has been published (or, as the case may be, broadcast)
and delivered as provided in this article an affidavit of publication signed by
an employee of the publisher having personal knowledge thereof (or, as the case
may be, an affidavit of broadcast signed by an employee of the radio or
television station having such knowledge thereof) and a certificate of the City
Clerk showing delivery of all copies as provided in this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1943, passed - -1972)
§ 6-1-17.1 EMERGENCY MEETINGS; PROCEDURE.
   An emergency meeting is a meeting which must be held before the notice
requirements of this chapter can be met. An emergency meeting may be called in
the same manner as a special meeting except that the written call for an
emergency meeting shall specify the nature of the emergency, and shall state
that because of the emergency it is necessary that a meeting be held before the
notice requirements of this chapter can be met. Reasonable efforts shall be
made to give all members of the City Council shall be given notice of the
proposed emergency meeting as soon as possible. The City Manager, or the
designee of the City Manager, shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings of the City Council, and shall make
reasonable efforts to provide advance notice to them of the time and place of
the emergency meeting and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting. The
emergency meeting may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. Any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Complete minutes of such emergency meeting specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by no later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Ord. 3544, passed - -1997)
§ 6-1-18 AGENDA; AVAILABILITY.
   Rule 3e. An agenda of a forthcoming meeting of the City Council kept
continually current by the City Clerk shall be available for public inspection
at the office of the City Clerk from the time when notice of the meeting is
published or first broadcast. Provided, a majority of the elected members of
the City Council may modify the agenda of a regular meeting at the meeting; and
the agenda of a special meeting may be modified if all of the members of the
City Council are present and consent thereto.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1943, passed - -1972)
§ 6-1-19 SAME; CERTIFICATE.
   Rule 3f. Subsequent to the meeting, there shall be filed in the office of
the City Clerk attached to the original agenda and, as the case may be, any
additions thereto or other changes therein which were made prior to the meeting
a certificate of the City Clerk identifying the original agenda and any
additions thereto or other changes therein which were made prior to the
meeting, and stating that the agenda as thus changed was kept continually
current and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1943, passed - -1972)
§ 6-1-20 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS; ADJOURNMENT.
   Rule 3g. The City Council, by a majority vote of all of the members of the
City Council, may adjourn or re-adjourn any regular or special meeting of the
City Council to a specified date and hour which is prior to the next regular
meeting of the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2463, passed - -1979)
§ 6-1-21 QUORUM; CONTINUANCE; COMPELLING ATTENDANCE.
   Rule 4. A majority of the number of members of the City Council for which
provision is made by statute shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, but a smaller number may adjourn or readjourn any regular or special
meeting to a specified date and hour which is prior to the next regular
meeting, and may compel attendance of members; provided, on the request of any
two members, whether a quorum be present or not, any absentee shall be sent for
and compelled to attend. Any hearing previously scheduled to be held at a
meeting at which a quorum is not in attendance shall stand automatically
continued to the same hour at the next regular meeting of the City Council,
unless the City Council at a special meeting held during the interim shall
otherwise specifically direct.
(Ord. 3069, passed - -1988)
§ 6-1-22 ROLL CALL; CALL TO ORDER; PRESIDING OFFICER.
   Rule 5. At the hour appointed for the meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed
to call the roll of members; provided, at the first regular City Council
meeting in December following the general election in every even numbered year,
the City Clerk shall first report to the City Council the names of all City
Council members-elect who have qualified, and the report shall be spread upon
the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. When the roll has been
called, the City Clerk shall announce whether a quorum is present. Upon the
appearance of a quorum at any meeting, the City Council shall be called to
order by the President, if present. Should the President be absent, then the
City Council shall be called to order by the Vice President. In the absence of
both the President and Vice President, the City Council shall elect one of its
members to serve as a temporary chairperson, who shall have all the powers and
duties of the President.
(Ord. 2883, passed - -1984; Ord. 3981, passed - -2008)
§ 6-1-23 ORDER OF BUSINESS; GENERAL.
   Rule 6. When the City Council has been called to order by the presiding
officer as hereinbefore provided, the City Council shall proceed to business,
which shall be conducted in such order as the City Council may by resolution
prescribe.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-24 ORDER OF BUSINESS; REFERRING BACK.
   Rule 7. The presiding officer may refer back to any order of business after
passing it, if there be no objections by any member of the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-25 ORDER; PRESERVATION; QUESTIONS OF.
   Rule 8. The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, and shall
decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the City Council. When a
member is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-26 CITY COUNCIL MEMBER; SPEAKING.
   Rule 9. Every member previous to his or her speaking shall address himself
or herself to the presiding officer, and while speaking shall confine himself
or herself to the question.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-27 SPEAKER; RECOGNITION.
   Rule 10. When two or more members rise at once, the presiding officer shall
name the member who shall be first to speak.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-28 MOTION; SECOND; STATEMENT.
   Rule 11. No motion shall be put or debated unless it be seconded; when
seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before it shall be
debatable.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-29 RESOLUTION; MOTION; WRITING.
   Rule 12. All resolutions and motions shall be reduced to writing before
being acted upon, if so required by any member of the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-30 RESOLUTION; MOTION; MOVER.
   Rule 13. In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered on the minutes
of the City Council, the name of the member moving the same shall be entered
also.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-31 MOTION; PRIVILEGED.
   Rule 14. When a question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained, or seconded, except the following privileged motions, to-wit:
first, the previous question; second, to lay on the table; third, to adjourn.
Each of such privileged motions shall be decided without any debate.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-32 BLANKS; FORM OF QUESTIONS.
   Rule 15. When a blank is to be filled and different sums or times are
proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum or longest time.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-33 CITY COUNCIL MEMBER; LEAVING ROOM.
   Rule 16. While the presiding officer is putting the question, no member
shall leave the City Council room.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-34 VOTING; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Rule 17. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated by the
presiding officer, shall vote thereon unless excused by a majority of the City
Council present.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-35 ORDINANCE; RESOLUTION; MOTION; WITHDRAWAL.
   Rule 18. An ordinance, resolution, or motion may be withdrawn by the mover,
with consent of the second, before the same shall be voted upon.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-36 VOTE; YEAS; NAYS.
   Rule 19. If any member request if, the “yeas” and “nays” upon any question
shall be taken and entered on the minutes.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-37 MOTION; TO RECONSIDER.
   Rule 20. A motion to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but such motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the consideration of the same
question.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-38 CITY COUNCIL MEMBER; REPRIMAND OR CENSURE.
   Rule 21. The City Council may reprimand or censure its members of any breach
of trust or disorderly behavior.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-39 RULES; SUSPENSION.
   Rule 22. Any rule of the City Council may be suspended by a vote of three-
fourths of the members elected to the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-40 RULES; ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Rule 23. In all cases and instances in which provision is not made by the
foregoing rules, Robert’s Rules of Order shall be the authority by which the
City Council is governed.
(Ord. 3379, passed 6-27-1994)
§§ 6-1-41 – 6-1-44 RESERVED.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND ORDERS
§ 6-1-45 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND ORDERS; PASSAGE; REQUISITES.
   All ordinances, resolutions, and orders shall require for their passage or
adoption the concurrence of a majority of all members elected to the City
Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-46 ORDINANCES; READING; VOTE RECORD.
   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three
different days, unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to suspend this
requirement. In such case, such requirement shall be suspended, such ordinance
shall be read by title or number and then moved for final passage. Ordinances
of neither a general nor a permanent nature may be read by title once and then
moved for final passage. Provided, three-fourths of the City Council may
require a reading of any ordinance in full before enactment under either
procedure set out in this section. The “yeas” and “nays” on any vote on, or
preliminary to, passage of an ordinance shall be recorded. This section shall
apply to ordinances, and only ordinances, introduced for passage after July 5,
1972.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1924, passed - -1972)
§§ 6-1-47 – 6-1-50 RESERVED.
MAYOR
§ 6-1-51 MAYOR; SIGNATURE; OATHS.
   The Mayor shall sign all ordinances, resolutions, and orders which have been
passed or adopted by the City Council. He or she shall sign the City Clerk’s
minutes of all meetings after they have been spread at large upon the journals
when the same have been approved by the action or acquiescence of the City
Council. The Mayor may administer oaths and affirmations in all matters coming
before him or her or the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-52 FINES; PENALTIES; REMIT; REPRIEVE; PARDON; MAYOR; POWER.
   The Mayor shall have the power to and may remit fines and penalties and
grant reprieves and pardons, after conviction, for any offense arising under
the ordinances of the city. The Mayor shall exercise such power by an order in
writing, explicitly stating therein the nature and extent of his or her
clemency, and such order shall be entered in full on the docket of the county
court.
§ 6-1-53 MAYOR; OTHER DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall do and perform such other duties as may be enjoined or
directed by the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-1-54 REPEALED.
ARTICLE 2: ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
6-2-1   Office and employment; eligibility; general
   
6-2-2   Same; residence
   
6-2-3   Incoming officer and office; qualification; demand; assumption
   
6-2-4   Incumbent officer and office; surrender to successor
   
6-2-5   Bond; amount; filing; approval; premium
   
6-2-6   Term of office; removal
   
6-2-7   Classified service; established; exempt service
   
6-2-8   Same; classification plan; revision
   
6-2-9   Same; discrimination prohibited
   
6-2-10   Compensation; how fixed; dual positions
   
6-2-11   Fees; property of city
   
6-2-12   Officers; employees; duties
   
6-2-13   Additional employees; hiring
   
6-2-14   Personnel regulations; promulgation; enforcement
   
6-2-15   Offices of City Manager and Police Chief; merger
   6-2-16 - 6-2-18   Reserved
Officers
Part 1. City Attorney and Deputy(ies)
   
6-2-19   City Attorney; established; appointment
   
6-2-20   Same; duties; general
   
6-2-21   Deputy city attorneys; established; appointments
   
6-2-22   Same; duties
   
6-2-23    – 6-2-26Reserved
Part 2. City Clerk and Deputy City Clerk
   
6-2-27   City Clerk; established; office; place
   
6-2-28   Same; duties
   
6-2-29   Deputy City Clerk; established; appointment
   
6-2-30   Same; duties
   
6-2-31    – 6-2-33Reserved
Part 3. City Engineer
   
6-2-34   City Engineer; established; appointment; duties
Part 4. City Manager and Assistant City Manager
   
6-2-35   City Manager; established; appointment; qualifications; residence; or
disability
   
6-2-36   Bond; amount; filing; approval; premium; payment
   
6-2-37   City Manager; powers; duties; general
   
6-2-38   Same; power to investigate
   
6-2-39   Same; custody and care of property
   
6-2-40   Assistant City Manager; established; appointment; residence; duties
   
6-2-41   Same; bond; amount; filing; approval; premium
   
6-2-42 – 6-2-43   Reserved
Part 5. City Treasurer
   
6-2-44   City Treasurer; established; appointment
   
6-2-45   Same; bond; amount; filing; approval; premium
   
6-2-46   Same; duties
   
6-2-47– 6-2-49   Reserved
Boards and Commissions
Part 1. General Provisions
   
6-2-50   Members; appointment; removal
   
6-2-51   Same; terms; expiration
   
6-2-52   Same; residence; compensation; City Council members not eligible
   
6-2-53   Officers; minutes
   
6-2-54   Rules of Procedure; quorum
   
6-2-55   Assistance by city employees
   
6-2-56– 6-2-58   Reserved
Part 2. Board of Adjustment
   
6-2-59   Board of Adjustment; established; membership; terms
   
6-2-60   Powers and duties
   
6-2-61   Records; filing
   
6-2-62–6-2-64   Reserved
Part 3. Building and Fire Codes Exceptions Board
   
6-2-65   Building and Fire Codes Exceptions Board; established; membership
   
6-2-66   Duties; generally
   
6-2-67– 6-2-69   Reserved
Part 4. Business Improvement Board
   
6-2-70   Business Improvement Board; established; membership; terms
   
6-2-71   Duties
   
6-2-72   Funds; administration
   
6-2-73–6-2-75   Reserved
Part 5. Civil Service Commission
   
6-2-76   Civil Service Commission; membership; terms
   
6-2-77   Reduction in force; policy; adoption by City Manager
   
6-2-78   Additional duties
   
6-2-79   Definitions
   
6-2-80   Disciplinary action procedures; general
   
6-2-81   Minor discipline
   
6-2-82   Temporary suspension
   
6-2-83   Major discipline
   
6-2-84   Accusation
   
6-2-85   Demand for investigation
   
6-2-86   Response by City Manager to demand for investigation
   
6-2-87   Investigation
   
6-2-88   Scheduling for hearing
   
6-2-89   Hearing
Part 5a. Community Redevelopment Authority
   
6-2-90   Community Redevelopment Authority; Creation
   
6-2-91   Members
   
6-2-92   Officers
   
6-2-93   Rules and records
   
6-2-94   Director
   
6-2-94.1   Funds
   
6-2-94.2   Community Development Law
Part 6. Economic Development Application Review Commission
   
6-2-95   Economic Development Application Review Commission; established;
membership
   
6-2-96   Duties; meetings
   
6-2-97   Access to information; confidential
Part 7. Economic Development Citizen Advisory Commission
   
6-2-98   Economic Development Citizen Advisory Commission; established;
membership; terms
   
6-2-99   Duties; meetings
   
6-2-100   Access to information; confidential
Part 8. Fair Housing Commission
   
6-2-101   Fair Housing Commission; established; membership; terms
   
6-2-102   Repealed
   
6-2-103– 6-2-105   Reserved
Part 9. Library Board
   
6-2-106   Library Board; established; membership; terms
   
6-2-107   Duties
Part 10. Liquor License Holders Investigatory Board
   
6-2-108   Liquor License Holders Investigatory Board; established; membership;
terms
   
6-2-109   Members
   
6-2-110   Duties
Part 11. Park, Cemetery, and Tree Board
   
6-2-111   Park, Cemetery, and Tree Board; established; membership; terms
   
6-2-112   Duties
   
6-2-113– 6-2-115   Reserved
Part 12. Planning Commission
   
6-2-116   Planning Commission; established
   
6-2-117   Records; Planning and Building Official; final action by Planning
Commission
   
6-2-118   Recommendation by Planning Commission
   
6-2-119   Planning and Building Official; notice of meetings
   
6-2-120– 6-2-122   Reserved
Part 13. Plumbers Examining Board
   
6-2-123   Plumbers Examining Board; established; membership; terms
   
6-2-124   Qualifications of members
   
6-2-125   Duties
   
6-2-126   Disqualification
Part 14. Scottsbluff City Youth Council
   
6-2-127   Scottsbluff City Youth Council; Composition; student representative
appointment; City Council advisor appointment
   
6-2-128   Term of office; eligibility for appointment; code of conduct; removal
   
6-2-129   Construction Alternative Selection Board
Departments
Part 1. Finance Department
   
6-2-130   Finance Department; established
   
6-2-131   Finance Director; office established; duties
   
6-2-132– 6-2-134   Reserved
Part 2. Fire Department
   
6-2-135   Fire Department; established
   
6-2-136   Fire Chief; established
   
6-2-137   Same; duties
   
6-2-138   Repealed
   
6-2-139   Personnel; appointment
   
6-2-140   Fire Department; firefighters; employ
   
6-2-141   Volunteer fire and rescue personnel; rules; regulations
   
6-2-142   Equipment; supply; ownership; possession
   
6-2-143   Same; care
   
6-2-144– 6-2-146   Reserved
Part 3. Library Department
   
6-2-147   Library; established
   
6-2-148   Library Director; office established; duties
   
6-2-149– 6-2-151   Reserved
Part 4. Department of Parks and Recreation
   
6-2-152   Department of Parks and Recreation; established
   
6-2-153   Director of Parks and Recreation; office established; appointment;
duties
   
6-2-154– 6-2-156   Reserved
Part 5. Personnel Department
   
6-2-157   Personnel Department; established
   
6-2-158   Personnel Director; established; appointment; duties
   
6-2-159– 6-2-161   Reserved
Part 6. Development Services Department
   
6-2-162   Development Services Department; established; duties
   
6-2-163   Development Services Director; office established
   
6-2-164   Repealed
   
6-2-165   Community Development Division; established
   
6-2-166   Same; Community Development Administrator; office; established;
appointment
   
6-2-167– 6-2-169   Reserved
Part 7. Police Department
   
6-2-170   Police Department; established
   
6-2-171   Police Chief; office established
   
6-2-172   Same; duties; residence
   
6-2-173– 6-2-174   Reserved
Part 8. Public Works Department
   
6-2-175   Public Works Department; established
   
6-2-176   Public Works Director; office established
   
6-2-177– 6-2-199   Reserved
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-2-1 OFFICE AND EMPLOYMENT; ELIGIBILITY; GENERAL.
   Any citizen of the United States, regardless of sex, race, national origin,
or religion, shall be eligible to be the head of any administrative department
or to hold any other office or employment of the city, except as otherwise
provided by statute, ordinance, or regulation.
(Ord. 3282, passed - -1993)
§ 6-2-2 SAME; RESIDENCE.
   The City Manager and Assistant City Manager must reside within the City of
Scottsbluff, the City of Gering, the City of Terrytown, or of an unincorporated
area within five miles of the city limits of the City of Scottsbluff.
(Ord. 3282, passed - -1993; Ord. 4256, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 4294, passed 11-
21-2022)
§ 6-2-3 INCOMING OFFICER AND OFFICE; QUALIFICATION; DEMAND; ASSUMPTION.
   It shall be the duty of each incoming appointive officer, immediately upon
his or her appointment, to qualify, make demand for, and assume his or her
office.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-2-4 INCUMBENT OFFICER AND OFFICE; SURRENDER TO SUCCESSOR.
   Each appointive officer shall immediately upon the appointment and
qualification of his or her successor, except as otherwise provided by
ordinance, surrender his or her office on demand to his or her successor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-2-5 BOND; AMOUNT; FILING; APPROVAL; PREMIUM.
   Each officer and employee of the city in a fiduciary capacity, other than
those required by statute or by other sections of this code to be bonded in a
specified amount, shall, before entering upon the duties of his or her office
or employment, be bonded to the city with a good and sufficient surety,
conditioned that such officer or employee will honestly and without fraud
perform and discharge the duties of his or her office or employment. Such bond
or bonds shall indemnify the city, and be for the use and benefit of the city,
against any loss or losses not exceeding in the aggregate the sum of $10,000
sustained by the city through any fraudulent or dishonest act or acts committed
by any one or more of such officers or employees acting alone or in collusion
with others. Such bond or bonds shall be approved by the City Council, filed
with the City Clerk and recorded in his or her office. The premium of any bond
required to be given under this section shall be paid by the city out of the
General Fund or other proper fund of the city upon resolution of the City
Council to that effect. It shall be the duty of the City Manager to see that
this section is enforced.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-2-6 TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL.
   All officers and employees of the city whom the City Manager is authorized
by ordinance to appoint shall, unless otherwise specifically provided by
ordinance, serve:
   (A)   Until removed by the City Manager; or
   (B)   In the event of the death, resignation, or removal of the City Manager
who appointed such officer or employee, until removed by the succeeding City
Manager.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-2-7 CLASSIFIED SERVICE; ESTABLISHED; EXEMPT SERVICE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a classified service in respect of the
offices and employments of the city, which shall include all positions in the
city service that are not exempt.
   (B)   The exempt service shall consist of:
      (1)   Elected offices;
      (2)   Members of boards and committees;
      (3)   The City Manager and such other administrative personnel as the
City Manager shall designate;
      (4)   Voluntary personnel and personnel appointed to service without pay;
      (5)   Consultants or counsel rendering temporary professional service;
and
      (6)   Positions involving seasonal or part-time employment, or unskilled
work, as the City Manager may designate.
§ 6-2-8 SAME; CLASSIFICATION PLAN; REVISION.
   The City Manager shall promulgate regulations assigning each position in the
classified service to a job class on the basis of the kind and level of its
duties and responsibilities, to the end that all positions in the classified
service that are in the same class shall be sufficiently alike to permit use of
a single descriptive title, the same qualifications requirements, the same test
of competence, and the same pay scale. A job class may contain one position or
more than one position. The City Manager may revise the classification plan
from time to time, which revisions may include additions to, or consolidation,
division, other amendment or abolition of existing classes.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1158, passed - -1958)
§ 6-2-9 SAME; DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No person holding or seeking appointment to any position in the classified
service shall be appointed, reduced or removed, or in any way favored or
discriminated against because of political opinions or affiliations, or because
of race, color, religious belief, or sex.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2081, passed - -1974)
§ 6-2-10 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; DUAL POSITIONS.
   The compensation of the officers and employees of the city shall be such
amount as, subject to statutory restrictions, shall be established by
resolution of the City Council. If any person holding the office of City Clerk
shall also be the head of any administrative department or other officer or
employee of the city, he or she shall be entitled to receive the salary
prescribed for both or all of such positions.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-2-11 FEES; PROPERTY OF CITY.
   In consideration of the salaries received by all officers and employees of
the city, all fees received by them in connection with official services shall
be the property of the city, and shall be promptly paid over to the City
Treasurer.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-2-12 OFFICERS; EMPLOYEES; DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties prescribed by this chapter to be performed by
various officers and employees, each officer and employee shall perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by other provisions of the municipal code, or
by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-2-13 ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEES; HIRING.
   The City Manager shall appoint such employees, in addition to those for
whose appointment specific provision is made by ordinance, as he or she deems
necessary to perform efficiently the duties and work of the various
administrative departments and offices created by the municipal code.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2243, passed - -1976)
§ 6-2-14 PERSONNEL REGULATIONS; PROMULGATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Manager shall promulgate and enforce regulations governing
personnel administration, which shall include provisions for:
   (A)   The selection, employment, and promotion of employees in the
departments and positions under his or her supervision on the basis of merit
and fitness to perform assigned tasks;
   (B)   The standardization of hours of work and leaves of absence;
   (C)   A uniform treatment of dismissals and disciplinary action, including
procedures for appeal;
   (D)   The maintenance of adequate records of employee attendance and
performance, to form a basis for consideration in promotion, salary adjustment,
layoffs, disciplinary action, and other personnel management processes; and
   (E)   The assignment to a subordinate of such tasks as the City Manager may
designate, in connection with the maintenance of the personnel merit system,
without, however, the delegation of responsibility therefor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 6-2-15 OFFICES OF CITY MANAGER AND POLICE CHIEF; MERGER.
   The City Council, exercising its discretion, has decided, by ordinance, to
combine and merge the office of the City Manager and the office of Police
Chief. The two offices are now combined with duties of the office of City
Manager and the office of Police Chief to be held by the same officer or
employee at the same time. The offices merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the merger shall be limited to the
consolidation of the official duties only. The salary or compensation of the
officer or employee holding the merged and combined offices shall not be in
excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or compensation of
the office, or offices so merged and combined.
(Ord. 4294, passed 11-21-2022)
§§ 6-2-16 – 6-2-18 RESERVED.
OFFICERS
PART 1. CITY ATTORNEY AND DEPUTY(IES)
§ 6-2-19 CITY ATTORNEY; ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney. The City Attorney
shall be appointed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-20 SAME; DUTIES; GENERAL.
   The primary duties of the City Attorney shall be to act as legal advisor of
the City Council, the City Manager, the heads of all administrative
departments, and all officers of the city; to draw such ordinances, contracts,
and other writings as may be required in the administration of the affairs of
the city; to examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the City
Council will be required to act and to advise whether or not the document is in
legal and proper form; to commence, prosecute, and defend all civil suits and
actions necessary to be commenced, prosecuted, and defended on behalf of the
city or that may be ordered by the City Council or City Manager; to attend the
meetings of the City Council, unless excused by the City Manager; and to
supervise the work of and on occasion, to assist the deputy city attorneys. The
City Attorney shall be responsible for the performance of all duties required
by statute to be performed by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-21 DEPUTY CITY ATTORNEYS; ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENTS.
   There is established the office of Deputy City Attorney. The City Manager
may appoint as many persons to the office of Deputy City Attorney as he or she
deems appropriate.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-22 SAME; DUTIES.
   (A)   The deputy city attorneys shall be deputies of the City Attorney and
shall have responsibilities as may be assigned to them by the City Attorney.
They shall also perform those duties with respect to the primary duties of the
City Attorney as may be assigned to them by the City Attorney, subject to the
approval of the City Manager. One or more of the deputy city attorneys, as
designated by the City Attorney, shall have the responsibility:
      (1)   To file complaints and prosecute the same against all persons
charged with the violation of any provision of the municipal code or, when
authorized by the County Attorney as provided by statute, with the violation of
a statute of the state; and
      (2)   To represent the city on appeals taken from a conviction or, as the
case may be, acquittal of charges of violations the municipal code or of such
statutes.
   (B)   The City Manager shall have authority to appoint the County Attorney
and one or more of his or her deputies as special deputy city attorneys for the
limited purpose of prosecuting violations of the provisions of the municipal
code arising out of or associated with the operation of a motor vehicle under
the influence of alcohol or drugs.
   (C)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to impair the right of the
City Council, vested in it by the state statutes, to pay to the City Attorney
or the deputy city attorneys additional compensation for legal services
performed by them for the city, or to employ additional legal assistance and
make payment out of funds of the city.
(Ord. 3442, passed - -1995)
§§ 6-2-23 – 6-2-26 RESERVED.
PART 2. CITY CLERK AND DEPUTY CITY CLERK
§ 6-2-27 CITY CLERK; ESTABLISHED; OFFICE PLACE.
   There is hereby established the office of City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
maintain his or her office in the City Hall or at such other place in the
business section of the city as the City Council shall provide.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-28 SAME; DUTIES.
   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all records and official papers of
the city. The City Clerk shall perform all the duties as prescribed by the
state statutes, such duties as are, or may be prescribed by the municipal code
to be performed by the City Clerk, and such other duties as the City Manager
may prescribe.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-29 DEPUTY CITY CLERK; ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT.
   There hereby is established the office of Deputy City Clerk. The Deputy City
Clerk shall be appointed by the City Manager. The City Manager shall have
discretion not to fill this position.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-30 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Deputy City Clerk shall perform such duties as shall be prescribed by
the municipal code and by the City Manager and, during the absence or
disability of the City Clerk, shall also perform the duties of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-31 – 6-2-33 RESERVED.
PART 3. CITY ENGINEER
§ 6-2-34 CITY ENGINEER; ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.
   There is hereby established the office of City Engineer. The City Engineer
shall be appointed by the City Manager. The City Engineer shall perform all the
duties as prescribed by the state statutes, such duties as are, or may be
prescribed by the municipal code to be performed by the City Engineer, and such
other duties as the City Manager may prescribe.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
PART 4. CITY MANAGER AND ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER
§ 6-2-35 CITY MANAGER; ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; RESIDENCE OR
DISABILITY.
   There is hereby established the office of City Manager. The City Manager
shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the city. The City Manager shall be
appointed by the City Council and shall be chosen solely on the basis of
administrative qualifications. The City Manager need not be a resident of the
city or state prior to appointment, but shall become a resident of the City of
Scottsbluff, the City of Gering, the City of Terrytown, or of an unincorporated
area within five miles of the city limits of the City of Scottsbluff before
assuming the duties of office. He or she shall hold office at the pleasure of
the City Council. The City Council shall designate by name or by job title the
individual who shall perform the duties of the office of the City Manager
during the absence or disability of the City Manager and, if one has been
appointed, the Assistant City Manager. The City Council shall also designate at
least two other individuals to serve in succession in the event of the absence
or disability of both the City Manager and the individual designated by the
City Council to serve in his or her absence.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994; Ord. 4256, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 4294, passed 11-
21-2022)
§ 6-2-36 BOND; AMOUNT; FILING; APPROVAL; PREMIUM; PAYMENT.
   The City Manager, before taking office, shall give a surety company bond in
the penal sum of $250,000 conditioned upon the honest and faithful performance
of the duties of the office and the faithful accounting for all property of the
city of any kind or nature which shall come into his or her possession or under
his or her control, which bond shall be filed with the City Clerk and approved
by the City Council. The premium of the bond of the City Manager shall be paid
by the city.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-37 CITY MANAGER; POWERS; DUTIES; GENERAL.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be responsible for the proper administration of
all affairs of the city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the City Manager shall be:
      (1)   To see that the laws and ordinances are enforced;
      (2)   To appoint and remove all heads of departments and all subordinate
officers and employees in the departments in both the classified and
unclassified service, which appointments shall be upon merit and fitness alone,
and in the classified service, all appointments and removals shall be subject
to the civil service provisions of the statutes of the state;
      (3)   To exercise control over all departments and divisions thereof that
may be created by the City Council;
      (4)   To attend all meetings of the City Council with the right to take
part in the discussion but not to vote;
      (5)   To recommend to the City Council for adoption such measures as he
or she may deem necessary or expedient;
      (6)   To prepare the annual budget and keep the City Council fully
advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by
statute, or by the municipal code or resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-38 SAME; POWER TO INVESTIGATE.
   The City Manager may investigate at any time the affairs of any department
or the conduct of any officer or employee. He or she, or any person or persons
appointed by him or her for the purpose, shall have the same power as the City
Council to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of books and
papers and other evidence, and to punish for contempt.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-39 SAME; CUSTODY AND CARE OF PROPERTY.
   The City Manager shall be the general custodian of all the property of the
city not expressly committed to the custody and control of others by the
municipal code. The City Manager shall preserve, keep in repair, and maintain
the upkeep of said property in suitable condition for use. The City Manager
shall keep the insurable property of the city insured, and shall exercise
reasonable diligence and care to preserve and maintain all property of the city
for its use and benefit. To accomplish this end, the City Manager is hereby
empowered to have any or all of said property repaired, repainted, refurnished,
or renewed when necessary, and to have the same stored or housed, if needed,
for its preservation, at the expense of the city.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-40 ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER; ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; RESIDENCE; DUTIES.
   There is hereby established the office of Assistant City Manager. The
Assistant City Manager shall be appointed by the City Manager. The City Manager
shall have discretion not to fill this position. The Assistant City Manager
need not be a resident of the city or state prior to appointment, but shall
become a resident before assuming the duties of his or her office. The
Assistant City Manager shall perform such duties as prescribed by the City
Manager. During the absence or disability of the City Manager, the Assistant
City Manager shall perform the duties of the office of City Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-41 SAME; BOND; AMOUNT; FILING; APPROVAL; PREMIUM.
   The Assistant City Manager shall, before entering upon the duties of his or
her office, give to the city a surety company bond in the penal sum of
$250,000, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his or her duties and for
the faithful accounting for all property and money of the city which shall come
into the possession or under the control of the Assistant City Manager, which
bond shall be filed with the City Clerk and approved by the City Council. The
premium of the bond of the Assistant City Manager shall be paid by the city.
Provided, the Assistant City Manager who is in office at the time of the
effective date of this section shall meet the requirements of this section
within 30 days after the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 3474, passed - -1995)
§ 6-2-42 – 6-2-43 RESERVED.
PART 5. CITY TREASURER
§ 6-2-44 CITY TREASURER; ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby established the office of City Treasurer. The City Treasurer
shall be appointed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-45 SAME; BOND; AMOUNT; FILING; APPROVAL; PREMIUM.
   The City Treasurer shall, before entering upon the duties of his or her
office, give to the city a surety company bond in the penal sum of $250,000,
conditioned for the faithful discharge of his or her duties and for the
faithful accounting for all property and money of the city which shall come
into the possession or under the control of the City Treasurer, which bond
shall be filed with the City Clerk and approved by the City Council. The
premium of the bond of the City Treasurer shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-46 SAME; DUTIES.
   The City Treasurer shall perform all duties prescribed by the laws of state
and by the municipal code, and shall perform such other duties as the City
Manager may prescribe.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-47 – 6-2-49 RESERVED.
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
PART 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-2-50 MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   The members of all boards or commissions shall be appointed by the City
Manager, with the approval of the City Council. The unexpired portion of the
term of any member whose office has been vacated, or the unexpired portion of
the term to which no member shall have been appointed before their term
commenced, shall be filled by appointment made by the City Manager, subject to
the approval of the City Council. Members shall be removable for cause by the
City Manager, but only upon written charges and after a public hearing.
Provided however, that when the state statutes provide a different manner for
the appointment or removal of such members, the terms of the statute shall
control.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-51 SAME; TERMS; EXPIRATION.
   The term of office of each member of all boards or commissions shall
commence on October 1 and expire on September 30. The terms of office of all
board or commission members in office on the date of the passage of this
section are hereby modified accordingly. The year in which the term of office
expires is not affected by the passage of this section.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-52 SAME; RESIDENCE; COMPENSATION; CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS NOT ELIGIBLE.
   (A)   Members of each board or commission shall be residents of the city.
This provision shall not apply to the Plumbers Examining Board, the Park,
Cemetery, and Tree Board, the Economic Development Application Review
Commission, nor to any other board or commission which is permitted or required
to have non-resident members by the statutes of the state.
   (B)   The members of each board or commission shall serve without pay.
   (C)   No member of the City Council shall be eligible to serve on any board
or commission.
(Ord. 4071, passed - -2012)
§ 6-2-53 OFFICERS; MINUTES.
   (A)   Each board or commission shall select from its membership a
chairperson and a vice chairperson. The chairperson shall preside at all
meetings of the board or commission. In the absence or disability of the
chairperson, the vice chairperson shall exercise the duties of the chairperson.
   (B)   The City Manager shall designate a city employee to serve as secretary
to each board and commission. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings of each
such board or commission. The minutes shall be filed in the office of the
secretary of each board or commission and shall be public records.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-54 RULES OF PROCEDURE; QUORUM.
   (A)   Each board or commission shall adopt by-laws and rules of procedure
not inconsistent with the laws of the state or the municipal code. In all cases
and instances in which provision is not made by the rules of the board or
commission, Robert’s Rules of Order shall be the authority by which the board
or commission is governed.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the board or commission shall constitute
a quorum.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-55 ASSISTANCE BY CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The City Manager may assign one or more employees of the city to assist any
board or commission In the performance of its duties.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-56 – 6-2-58 RESERVED.
PART 2. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 6-2-59 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   There hereby is established a Board of Adjustment, consisting of five
regular members, plus one additional member designated as an alternate who
shall attend and serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend
for any reason. Each member, including the alternate member, shall serve a term
of three years.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-60 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the powers and duties prescribed by the
state statutes.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-61 RECORDS; FILING.
   In the case of matters which, under statute or the municipal code, are
required to be submitted to the Board of Adjustment for action by the Board of
Adjustment, but are required to be submitted, in the first instance, to the
Planning and Building Official for preliminary review or other administrative
action by such officer, the Planning and Building Official, after having taken
such action, shall cause to be filed in the office of the secretary of the
Board of Adjustment all documents which have been submitted to the Planning and
Building Official and written recommendations by the Planning and Building
Official, together with a copy of any order entered or other action taken in
writing by the Planning and Building Official, in regard to the matter, and
such documents and copies shall thereupon become records of the Board. The
Planning and Building Official shall retain the original copy of any order
entered by him or her, duplicate copies of all written applications submitted
to him or her and of his or her written recommendations to the Board of
Adjustment and, in his or her discretion, duplicate copies of other documents
in the proceedings.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-62 – 6-2-64 RESERVED.
PART 3. BUILDING AND FIRE CODES EXCEPTIONS BOARD
§ 6-2-65 BUILDING AND FIRE CODES EXCEPTIONS BOARD; ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP.
   There hereby is established a Building and Fire Codes Exceptions Board. The
Board shall consist of five regular members, plus one additional member who
shall attend and serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend
for any reason. The regular members and the alternate member of the Board of
Adjustment shall also be ex-officio the regular members and the alternate
member, respectively, of the Building and Fire Codes Exceptions Board.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-66 DUTIES; GENERALLY.
   The Building and Fire Codes Exceptions Board shall have such duties as may
be vested in it by this chapter and by
Chapters 4 and
8 of this code. It shall not have or exercise any of the duties vested either
by statute or by ordinance in the Board of Adjustment or the Planning
Commission of the city.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-67 – 6-2-69 RESERVED.
PART 4. BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT BOARD
§ 6-2-70 BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT BOARD; ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   There is hereby established in accordance with the applicable state statutes
as now existing or hereafter amended, a Business Improvement Board. The Board
shall have seven members, plus two additional members designated as alternates
who shall attend and serve only when one or two of the regular members are
unable to attend for any reason. The term of office of each member of the
Board, including the alternate members, shall be three years commencing on
October 1.
(Ord. 3681, passed - -2001)
§ 6-2-71 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Business Improvement Board shall make recommendations to the City
Council on the following matters:
      (1)   The establishment of a business improvement district, or districts,
within the boundaries of an established business area of the city zoned and
used for business, public, or commercial purposes; and
      (2)   Plans for improvements in such districts(s).
   (B)   The Business Improvement Board may make recommendations to the City
Council on the following matters: the use of any license and/or occupation tax
funds collected under authority of state statutes applicable to business
improvement district(s):
      (1)   Appropriate tax assessments on taxable property within such
district(s);
      (2)   Appropriate budgets for such district(s);
      (3)   The necessity of creating an off-street parking district, or
districts, within, or substantially within, the boundaries of a business
improvement district;
      (4)   Any other matter reasonably related to any power which may be
exercised under the state statutes applicable to business improvement
districts.
   (C)   In the event that there is or shall hereafter be created one or more
off-street parking districts, which districts are located within, or
substantially within, the boundaries of any existing or hereafter created
business improvement district(s), the Business Improvement Board may make
recommendations to the City Council on the following matters:
      (1)   Plans to construct off-street parking facilities as authorized by
the state statutes applicable to off-street parking districts;
      (2)   Appropriate tax assessments on taxable property within such
district(s);
      (3)   Appropriate budgets for such district(s);
      (4)   The use of any tax or other funds collected under authority of
state statutes applicable to off-street parking districts; and
      (5)   Any other matter reasonably related to any power which may be
exercised under the state statutes applicable to off-street parking districts.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-72 FUNDS; ADMINISTRATION.
   License and occupation tax funds collected as authorized by state law shall
be administered by such employee(s) of the city as the City Manager shall
designate.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-73 – 6-2-75 RESERVED.
PART 5. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 6-2-76 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   The Civil Service Commission of the city which has been created by the Civil
Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1826 and 19-1827 shall have three members. The
term of office of each member shall be a period of six years.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-77 REDUCTION IN FORCE; POLICY; ADOPTION BY CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager, after consultation with the City Council, shall adopt, in
writing, a reduction in force policy, applicable to all full-time police
officers and full-time firefighters, which is conformable to the requirements
of the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS 19-1826 and 19-1827.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-78 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties previously described, the Civil Service Commission
shall consult with and advise the City Manager in regard to personnel
regulations, policies, and practices of the city.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-79 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in any provision of this code which pertains to civil service
or the discipline of employees who are subject to the Civil Service Act, being
Neb. RS 19-1826 and 19-1827, the following terms shall have the following
meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   ACCUSATION. A written instrument containing a charge that an employee has
engaged or is engaging in misconduct warranting the imposition of major
discipline. It must be signed by the person making the charge.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the Commission.
   CHIEF. The Chief of Police or the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall only have
power to impose discipline on employees assigned to the Fire Department. The
Chief of Police shall only have power to impose discipline on employees
assigned to the Police Department.
   COMMISSION. The Civil Service Commission
   DAYS. Days when City Hall is open for business, and does not include
weekends or holidays, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   EMPLOYEES. Full-time police officers and full-time firefighters as those
terms are defined in the Civil Service Act.
   MAJOR DISCIPLINE. Removal, suspension, demotion, or discharge from a
position held by an employee who has been permanently appointed or inducted
into civil service under the Civil Service Act.
   MINOR DISCIPLINE. Discipline other than major discipline. Any discipline
which is not committed to writing is not minor discipline.
   NOTIFY. An accused means to deliver an instrument personally to the accused
or to mail it by certified mail addressed to the accused at the residence
address of the accused shown in the personnel records of the city.
   SECRETARY. The secretary of the Commission.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-80 DISCIPLINARY ACTION PROCEDURES; GENERAL.
   The procedure for the discipline of any employee shall conform to the
requirements of this article.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-81 MINOR DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   Minor discipline may be imposed by the Chief or by the City Manager.
Before any of these individuals impose minor discipline, he or she must:
      (1)   Investigate the alleged misconduct;
      (2)   Explain the evidence to the accused; and
      (3)   Give the accused an opportunity to deny, explain, or justify the
alleged misconduct.
   (B)   Minor discipline shall be committed to writing. One copy shall be
placed in the employee’s file and another shall be given to the employee. If
the minor discipline was imposed by the Chief, the employee may appeal to the
City Manager. The appeal shall be made by a written instrument and shall be
delivered to the City Manager within 15 days after employee was notified of the
minor discipline. The City Manager may make such additional investigation as he
or she believes to be warranted. The City Manager may affirm, vacate, modify,
or increase the minor discipline imposed by the Chief. If the City Manager
thinks the misconduct warrants major discipline, the procedures relating to
major discipline shall be followed.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-82 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION.
   The Chief or the City Manager shall have the authority to immediately
suspend, with pay, any employee pending an investigation of allegations of
misconduct. A temporary suspension may not exceed 30 calendar days.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-83 MAJOR DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   Major discipline may only be imposed upon the accusation of the Chief,
the City Manager, or any citizen or taxpayer. Major discipline may be imposed
only by the City Manager. Before the Chief
or City Manager may make an accusation, he or she must:
      (1)   Investigate the alleged misconduct;
      (2)   Explain the evidence against the accused; and
      (3)   Give the accused an opportunity to deny, explain, or justify the
alleged misconduct.
   (B)   If an accusation is made by a person other than the City Manager or
Chief, the City Manager shall conduct such investigation as may be warranted,
including the steps listed in the immediately preceding sentence. The
investigation may be delegated to the Chief, unless the Chief is the accused,
in which case the City Manager shall conduct the investigation.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receiving a written accusation, the City Manager
shall respond to it.
   (D)   The response may be to take no action; make an oral reprimand or
impose other discipline not rising to the level of minor discipline; impose
minor discipline; or impose major discipline. Within 15 days after making the
response, the City Manager shall advise the person making the accusation of his
or her response to the accusation.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-84 ACCUSATION.
   (A)   An accusation shall specify the ground or grounds for the disciplinary
action proposed including both:
      (1)   The acts or omissions alleged to have occurred;
      (2)   The provision or provisions of the Civil Service Act, being Neb. RS
19-1826 and 19-1827 under which such acts are alleged to constitute grounds for
the disciplinary action proposed;
      (3)   The disciplinary action which is proposed; or
      (4)   If signed by a person other than the Chief or City Manager, the
accusation shall state the residence address of the signer and shall state
whether the signer is a resident or property taxpayer of the city.
   (B)   If the accusation is filed by someone other than the City Manager, the
accusation shall be filed with the City Manager.
   (C)   Within 48 hours after an accusation is filed with the City Manager,
the City Manager shall notify the accused of it.
   (D)   If the City Manager, after conducting such investigation as may be
warranted, concludes that major discipline is warranted, the City Manager shall
impose the discipline. Upon the imposition of major discipline, the City
Manager shall file the accusation with the Secretary and shall notify the
accused of the discipline which has been imposed and of the fact that the
accusation has been filed with the Secretary.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-85 DEMAND FOR INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Any employee who is subjected to major discipline may, within ten
calendar days after being notified by the City Manager of the imposition of
such major discipline, file with the Secretary a written demand for an
investigation.
   (B)   Simultaneously with the filing such demand, the accused shall cause to
be delivered to the City Manager personally or mailed, by certified mail
addressed to the City Manager at City Hall, the following:
      (1)   A written response to the charge(s) contained in the accusation;
      (2)   Names of the witnesses who will be called on behalf of the accused
at the hearing before the Civil Service Commission, together with a general
statement concerning the nature of their testimony; and
      (3)   Copies of the documents to be introduced on behalf of the accused.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-86 RESPONSE BY CITY MANAGER TO DEMAND FOR INVESTIGATION.
   Within ten days after receipt by the City Manager of a copy of a written
demand by the accused for an investigation, the City Manager shall:
   (A)   Cause to be delivered to the accused personally, or mailed by
certified mail addressed to the residence address of the accused shown in the
personnel records, the names of the witnesses who will be called on behalf of
the City Manager at the hearing before the Commission, together with a general
statement of the nature of their testimony, and copies of the documents to be
introduced on behalf of the City Manager;
   (B)   In writing, designate the individual who shall conduct the
investigation;
   (C)   In writing, elect whether the Civil Service Commission may be
represented at the hearing by the City Attorney; and
   (D)   Deliver or cause to be mailed by certified mail to the City Attorney
and the chairperson a copy of such elections.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-87 INVESTIGATION.
   The investigation to be made by the person designated by the City Manager
shall consist solely of a review of the written submissions of the City Manager
and the accused to determine whether any individuals or documents should be
subpoenaed by the Civil Service Commission for the subsequent public hearing
before the Civil Service Commission for an ultimate determination whether the
City Manager acted in good faith for cause. If the person conducting the
investigation determines that any individuals or documents should be so
subpoenaed, the report shall specify the name(s) and address(es) of such
individual(s) and identify such document(s), including its supposed location
and in whose custody they is believed to be. Such report shall be signed by the
representative and by him or her deposited with the Secretary not less than
three days prior to the date of the hearing to be held by the Commission.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-88 SCHEDULING THE HEARING.
   (A)   Within five days after the filing of a written demand for an
investigation, the chairperson, after conferring with the other members of the
Civil Service Commission, the City Manager, and the accused or counsel for the
accused, shall schedule the matter for hearing. The hearing shall be held not
less than ten nor more than 20 calendar days after the filing of the written
demand for an investigation. The secretary shall notify the accused of the time
and place of hearing at least 24 hours before the hearing.
   (B)   The chairperson may call a special meeting of the Civil Service
Commission prior to the hearing. The chairperson shall call such a meeting if
requested in writing to do so by one other member of the Civil Service
Commission or by the City Manager. At such special meeting, the Civil Service
Commission may consider the appointment of special counsel to represent the
Civil Service Commission in the hearing, and may enter appropriate orders
dealing with the scope of the hearing. If a special meeting is called, the
secretary shall cause a written notice of such special meeting stating the
date, place, and purposes of such special meeting to be personally delivered to
each member of the Civil Service Commission and to the accused not less than 24
hours before the meeting or to be mailed not less than 48 hours prior to the
meeting by United States mail addressed to the members of the Civil Service
Commission and to the accused. Notice of such special meeting of the Civil
Service Commission shall be published in the Star-Herald one time not less than
one day prior to the day on which the meeting is to be held or, at the election
of the secretary, read not less than four times, the last of which readings
shall be completed not less than six hours prior to the meeting, on any
commercial radio or television station which maintains a studio in the county.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
§ 6-2-89 HEARING.
   At the hearing, the accused shall be permitted to appear in person or by
counsel and to present his or her defense. The Civil Service Commission may
affirm the action taken by the City Manager if such action is supported by a
preponderance of the evidence. If the Civil Service Commission shall find that
the major discipline was imposed for political or religious reasons or was not
made in good faith for cause, it shall order the immediate reinstatement or
reemployment of the employee in the position or employment from which such
employee was removed, suspended, demoted, or discharged. This reinstatement
shall, if the Civil Service Commission in its discretion so provides, be
retroactive and entitle the employee to compensation and restoration of
benefits and privileges from the time of such removal, suspension, demotion, or
discharge. The Civil Service Commission in lieu of affirming the discipline,
may modify the order by directing a suspension with or without pay for given
period and subsequent restoration to duty or demotion in position or pay. A
decision shall be rendered no later than ten calendar days after the hearing.
The findings shall be certified in writing and enforced by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1996)
PART 5a. COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 6-2-90 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; CREATION.
   The Community Redevelopment Authority of the city (the “Authority”) is
created, pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 18-2102.01.
§ 6-2-91 MEMBERS.
   The Authority shall be made up of five persons. The initial members of the
Authority shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council. The terms of office of the initial members shall be for one year, two
years, three years, four years, and five years, as designated by the Mayor. As
the terms of the initial members expire, the City Manager shall appoint or
reappoint the members with the approval of the City Council for five-year
terms, unless a vacancy is being filled, in which case the appointment shall be
for the remainder of the term of the member being replaced. There shall be no
limit on the number of terms for which a member can be reappointed. Three
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
§ 6-2-92 OFFICERS.
   The Authority shall organize by electing one of the members as chairperson
of the Authority, and another of its members as vice chairperson.
§ 6-2-93 RULES AND RECORDS.
   The Authority shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and
shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and
determinations, which records shall be made available for public inspection
during regular business hours. No member of the Authority shall have any
interest directly or indirectly in any contract for property, materials, or
services to be required by the Authority.
§ 6-2-94 DIRECTOR.
   The City Manager or his or her designated representative shall serve as the
Director and ex- officio secretary of the Authority. The Director shall perform
such duties as may be assigned by the Authority, including the necessary
administrative functions described in the statutes under which the Authority
has been created.
§ 6-2-94.1 FUNDS.
   If budgeted by the City Council, the Authority may levy a tax in an amount
not to exceed the levy permitted by state law. All income, revenue, profits,
and other funds received by the Authority shall be deposited with the City
Treasurer as ex-officio treasurer of the Authority without commingling such
money with any other money under his or her control and disbursed by him or her
by check or draft only upon warrants, orders, or requisitions by the
chairperson of the Authority or other person authorized by the Authority, which
shall state distinctly the purpose for which the same are drawn. A permanent
record shall be kept by the Authority of all warrants, orders, or requisitions
so drawn, showing the date, amount, consideration, and to whom payable.
§ 6-2-94.2 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LAW.
   The Authority shall be vested with all the powers, duties, and
responsibilities provided for in the Community Development Law, Neb. RS 18-2101
et seq., as may be amended from time to time. The Authority shall assume all
obligations of, and exercise all power and authority previously exercised by
the City Council acting as the Community Development Agency.
(Ord. 4209, passed 5-1-2017)
PART 6. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION REVIEW COMMISSION
§ 6-2-95 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION REVIEW COMMISSION; ESTABLISHED;
MEMBERSHIP.
   There is established an Economic Development Application Review Commission
to be composed of five members. At least three members of the Commission shall
be residents of the city. At least one member must have experience in banking
or lending and at least one member must be a certified public accountant. The
Program Administrator of the city’s economic development program shall serve as
an ex-officio, but non-voting member of the Commission. Up to two alternate
members may be appointed to the Commission, at least one of whom shall be a
resident of the city. In the event that a member is not available, or has a
conflict of interest, with respect to a matter before the Commission, the
Program Administrator may designate one of the alternates to act in the place
of that member.
(Ord. 4071, passed - -2012)
§ 6-2-96 DUTIES; MEETINGS.
   The Economic Development Application Review Commission shall perform the
following duties:
   (A)   Review applications for assistance from the city’s economic
development program and make recommendations as provided for in the city’s
economic development plan; and
   (B)   Review applications and make recommendations concerning requests for
funding from the city’s Community Development Block Grant Re-Use Fund.
(Ord. 4071, passed - -2012)
§ 6-2-97 ACCESS TO INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIAL.
   Members of the Economic Development Application Review Commission may be
permitted access to business information received by the city in the course of
reviewing applications, which information is considered confidential under
state law, the city’s economic development plan, or by agreement with the
applicant. Unauthorized disclosure of any confidential business information
shall be a Class I violation.
(Ord. 4071, passed - -2012)
PART 7. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CITIZEN ADVISORY COMMISSION
§ 6-2-98 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CITIZEN ADVISORY COMMISSION; ESTABLISHED;
MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   An Economic Development Citizen Advisory Commission is established. This
Commission shall consist of five registered voters of the city. Each member
shall serve a term of two years except that for the first Commission
appointments, three members shall be appointed for two-year terms and two
members shall be appointed for a one-year term. No member shall serve more than
two consecutive terms. At least one member of the Commission shall have
expertise or experience in the field of business finance or accounting. No
member of the Commission shall be an elected or appointed city official, an
employee of the city, a participant in a decision-making position regarding
expenditures of program funds, or an official or employee of any qualifying
business receiving financial assistance under the city economic development
program or any financial institution participating directly in the program.
Provided, the City Manager or his or her designee shall serve as Program
Liaison Officer and shall be an ex-officio member of the Commission with
responsibility for assisting the Commission and providing it with necessary
information and advice on the program. In addition, the City Manager is
designated as the Program Administrator for the program with duties and
responsibilities as provided for in the economic development plan.
(Ord. 3444, passed - -1995)
§ 6-2-99 DUTIES; MEETINGS.
   The Economic Development Citizen Advisory Commission shall review the City
Economic Development Program and advise the City Council with regard to the
program, and perform any other duties as prescribed by state law. It shall
schedule regular meetings at least quarterly and at least once in every six-
month period, and the Commission shall report to the City Council on its
findings and suggestions at a public hearing called for that purpose.
(Ord. 3444, passed - -1995)
§ 6-2-100 ACCESS TO INFORMATION; CONFIDENTIAL.
   Members of the Application Review Committee, the Economic Development
Citizens Advisory Committee, the City Manager, the Program Administrator, any
city staff, any appointed or elected official or any member, or alternate
member of a regional economic development committee (“permittees”) may be
permitted access to business and confidential information received in the
course of the administration or review of the administration of the program or
review of economic development ideas and information for the city or for areas
in the western part of the state where the program is active and interested,
which information would otherwise be confidential under state law or by
agreement with a qualifying business participating in the program or in a
regional economic development committee. All permittees who are permitted
access to or receive such information agree to keep such information
confidential and agree that it is confidential business information and
proprietary and is only being released to permittees for the purpose of review
for economic development uses. Any unauthorized disclosure of any confidential
information or proprietary business information that is reviewed or to which
the permittees are granted access to for economic development purposes shall
not be released to the general public and are not considered public records for
the purpose of the public records state statutes. Any unauthorized disclosure
of any such information shall be a Class I violation.
(Ord. 3444, passed - -1995; Ord. 4170, passed - -2015)
PART 8. FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 6-2-101 FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION; ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   There is hereby established the Fair Housing Commission. The Planning
Commission of the city shall serve and act as the Fair Housing Commission when
necessary to perform and carry out all duties and responsibilities of the Fair
Housing Commission under the municipal code.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994; Ord. 4164, passed - -2015)
§ 6-2-102 REPEALED.
§§ 6-2-103 – 6-2-105 RESERVED.
PART 9. LIBRARY BOARD
§ 6-2-106 LIBRARY BOARD; ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   There is hereby established a Library Board, which shall consist of five
members. Each member shall serve a term of five years.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-107 DUTIES.
   The Library Board shall advise the City Manager in regard to the operation,
maintenance, and development of the public library.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
PART 10. LIQUOR LICENSE HOLDERS INVESTIGATORY BOARD
§ 6-2-108 LIQUOR LICENSE HOLDERS INVESTIGATORY BOARD; ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP;
TERMS.
   There is hereby established a Liquor License Holders Investigatory Board
which shall consist of ten members, six of which shall be members of the
community and shall serve a term of three years.
§ 6-2-109 MEMBERS.
   The Liquor License Holders Investigatory Board shall consist of the City
Manager, City Attorney, Police Chief, and City Clerk. Six additional members
will be appointed as provided in this article. Two members shall be holders of
licenses issued pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-
101 et seq. These persons need not be residents of the city if their licensed
business is in the city. In appointing the other four members, preference will
be given to employees of Western Nebraska Community College and the Scottsbluff
Public School District, and persons who have been active in addressing alcohol-
related problems. Board members who are employed by Western Nebraska Community
College or the Scottsbluff Public School District need not be residents of the
city.
§ 6-2-110 DUTIES.
   The Liquor License Holders Investigatory Board shall assist the City Council
in discharging its powers, functions, and duties with respect to retail liquor
licenses under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
The Liquor License Holders Investigatory Board will educate new license
holders, investigate alleged violations of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. and violations of the municipal code, and any
other matters the Police Chief believes in his or her discretion warrants
investigation by the Board. The Liquor License Holders Investigatory Board
shall also perform such other duties as may be requested by the City Council.
This section shall not be construed to limit the powers of the City Council.
The City Council may exercise any of its lawful powers under the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. at any time it deems
appropriate without regard to whether the Liquor License Holders Investigatory
Board has acted.
PART 11. PARK, CEMETERY, AND TREE BOARD
§ 6-2-111 PARK, CEMETERY, AND TREE BOARD; ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   There is hereby established a Park, Cemetery, and Tree Board. Such Board
shall have seven members who will serve for a term of five years. Provided, all
members shall live in the county. No more than two members may reside outside
the city limits.
(Ord. 3839, passed - -2005)
§ 6-2-112 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Park, Cemetery, and Tree Board shall be to consult with
and advise the City Manager in regard to the development, improvement, and
management of the parks and cemeteries of the city. The Park, Cemetery, and
Tree Board shall also, upon request by the City Council, consider, investigate,
and make findings, reports, and recommendations concerning any manner or
question involving park trees (as defined in this code) and street trees (as
defined in this code) together with any other duties which may be vested in the
Board by this code.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-113 – 6-2-115 RESERVED.
PART 12. PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 6-2-116 PLANNING COMMISSION; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Planning Commission of the city as authorized
by the state statutes. The Planning Commission shall include one alternate
member. The number of members, the manner of their appointment, the period of
office, and the powers of the alternate member shall be prescribed by state
law. The Planning Commission shall perform the duties prescribed by state law,
and shall serve and act as the Fair Housing Commission of the city when
necessary to perform and carry out all duties and responsibilities of the Fair
Housing Commission under the municipal code.
(Ord. 3440, passed - -1995; Ord. 4164, passed - -2015)
§ 6-2-117 RECORDS; PLANNING AND BUILDING OFFICIAL; FINAL ACTION BY PLANNING
COMMISSION.
   In the case of matters which, under statute or the municipal code, are
required to be submitted to the Planning Commission for final action, but are
required to be submitted, in the first instance, to the Planning and Building
Official for preliminary review or other administrative action by such officer,
the Official after having taken such action, shall cause to be filed in the
office of the secretary of the Commission all documents which have been
submitted to the Official and written recommendations by the Official to the
Commission, together with a copy of any order entered or other action taken in
writing by the Official, in regard to the matter, and such documents and copies
shall thereupon become records of the Commission. The Official shall retain in
his or her file the original copy of any order entered by him or her, duplicate
copies of all written applications submitted to him or her and of his or her
written recommendations to the Commission and, in his or her discretion,
duplicate copies of other documents in the proceedings.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-118 RECOMMENDATION BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   If the matter is one which, under statute, is required to be submitted
to the Planning Commission for a recommendation to the City Council, but is
required by this code to be submitted, first, to the Planning and Building
Official for preliminary review or other administrative action by such officer,
the Official, after having taken such action, shall cause to be filed in the
office of the secretary of the Commission all documents (except a final plat)
which have been submitted to the Official and written recommendations by the
Official to the Commission, together with a copy of any order entered or other
action taken in writing by the Director, in regard to the matter, and such
documents (except a plat) and copies shall thereupon become records of the
Commission. After the Commission shall have made a recommendation to the City
Council:
      (1)   The Secretary of the Commission shall supply a copy of the
recommendation to the Director, who shall file the copy with the City Clerk;
and
      (2)   The Official shall cause to be presented to the City Council, for
consideration and action by the City Council, the document or documents which
was (were) the subject of the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
Following action by the City Council, the Official shall cause the document(s)
if:
         (a)   A final plat, to be delivered to the City Clerk for recording in
the office of the Register of Deeds; or
         (b)   Any other document, to be returned to the files in the office of
the secretary of the Commission.
   (B)   The Official shall retain the original copy of any order entered by
him or her, and shall or, as the case may be, may also retain duplicate copies
of the other documents as provided in this article.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-119 PLANNING AND BUILDING OFFICIAL; NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   Notice of meetings of the Planning Commission shall be served upon the
Planning and Building Official within the time and in the manner in which such
notice is required to be served upon members of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-120 – 6-2-122 RESERVED.
PART 13. PLUMBERS EXAMINING BOARD
§ 6-2-123 PLUMBERS EXAMINING BOARD; ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   There hereby is established a Plumbers Examining Board. Such Board shall
have six members. Each member shall serve a term of four years.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-124 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   The members of the Plumbers Examining Board shall be one master plumber, one
journeyman plumber, and one sheet metal worker, each holding a license of that
classification, and one of whom shall hold a contractor’s license of that
classification, and one of whom shall hold a contractor’s license issued by the
city; and one individual who is neither engaged, whether as an employer or an
employee, in the plumbing or sheet metal business, nor owns an interest in such
a business. The City Manager shall appoint two city employees to serve as
voting members of the Board.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-125 DUTIES.
   The Plumbers Examining Board shall have the duties described in elsewhere in
the municipal code.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-126 DISQUALIFICATION.
   A member of the Plumbers Examining Board shall be disqualified to sit in
respect of an application for a license or certificate by, or for revocation or
suspension of a license, such member of the Board or a member or employee of
the firm of which such member of the Board is a member or employee.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
PART 14. SCOTTSBLUFF CITY YOUTH COUNCIL
§ 6-2-127 SCOTTSBLUFF CITY YOUTH COUNCIL; COMPOSITION; STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE
APPOINTMENT; CITY COUNCIL ADVISOR APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Scottsbluff City Youth Council is hereby established for the
purposes of:
      (1)   Educating the city youth about the functions of municipal
government;
      (2)   Providing local youth a greater understanding about the city and
its assets;
      (3)   Generating interest and enthusiasm for local elections and the
election process;
      (4)   Creating a formal process whereby local youth can play an active
role in city-wide issues; and
      (5)   Creating a stronger partnership between youth, the city, and the
Scottsbluff School District.
   (B)   The Scottsbluff City Youth Council shall be a sub-committee of the
Scottsbluff Senior High School Student Senate at the pleasure of the City
Council.
   (C)   The Scottsbluff City Youth Council shall be led by a student
representative, who will serve in an ex-officio capacity on the City Council at
all regular public City Council meetings.
   (D)   The student representative will not be included in closed sessions
unless invited by a majority of the City Council.
   (E)   The student representative will be elected by the Scottsbluff High
School student body each year and approved by a three-fourths vote of the City
Council by July 1. In order to be eligible, the student candidate must:
      (1)   Submit his or her request, in writing, to the building principal;
      (2)   Obtain at least ten signatures of support from fellow high school
students;
      (3)   Be academically eligible as defined by applicable rules of the
Nebraska Schools Activity Association; and
      (4)   Be a junior or senior.
   (F)   The Scottsbluff City Youth Council shall be comprised of one student
representative and an unspecified number of sub-committee members of the
Scottsbluff High School (SSHS) Student Senate. The number and identity of
Scottsbluff City Youth Council members and the requirements for participation
shall be determined by the SSHS Student Senate.
   (G)   A City Council member will be selected by the City Council each year
by July 1 to serve as an advisor to the Scottsbluff City Youth Council. The
Council Advisor will meet no less than one time per month with the Scottsbluff
City Youth Council student representative and/or Scottsbluff City Youth Council
sub-committee.
   (H)   The Scottsbluff City Youth Council is be subject to the provisions of
§§
6-2-50 through
6-2-55 of this article.
(Ord 3900, passed - -2006)
§ 6-2-128 TERM OF OFFICE; ELIGIBILITY FOR APPOINTMENT; CODE OF CONDUCT;
REMOVAL.
   The Scottsbluff City Youth Council student representative and Council
Advisor shall both serve for one year. The Scottsbluff City Youth Council
student representative may serve up to two consecutive terms. No Scottsbluff
City Youth Council student representative may use or possess alcohol, tobacco,
or a controlled substance as that term is defined by the state statutes. Any
student representative that is expelled from school or drops out of school
possesses or uses alcohol, tobacco, or a controlled substance may be removed
from office by recommendation of the Scottsbluff Senior High School Student
Senate and two thirds vote of the City Council.
(Ord 3900, passed - -2006)
§ 6-2-129 CONSTRUCTION ALTERNATIVE SELECTION BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   All proposals involving a design-build (DB) contract or a
construction management at risk (CMR) contract shall be referred to a
“Construction Alternative Selection Board”, consisting of five persons selected
by the City Council. Members of the Selection Board shall include at least one
of each of the following:
         (a)   City Council member;
         (b)   City staff representative;
         (c)   The performance-criteria developer in the case of a DB contract;
         (d)   The City Engineer in the case of a CMR contract;
         (e)   A person having special expertise relevant to selection of
design-builder or construction manager; and
         (f)   A resident of the city, other than an individual included in
divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(d) above.
      (2)   A member of the Construction Alternative Selection Board designated
under divisions (A)(1)(d) or (e) above shall not be employed by or have an
interest in a design-builder or a construction manager who has a proposal being
evaluated, and shall not be an employee of the city or the performance criteria
developer.
   (B)   The Construction Alternative Selection Board shall evaluate proposals
from a design-builder or construction manager, taking into consideration
criteria as outlined in the city’s construction policies.
   (C)   The records of the selection board in evaluating proposals and making
recommendations shall be considered public records under Neb. RS 84-712.01.
(Ord. 3998, passed - -2009)
DEPARTMENTS
PART 1. FINANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 6-2-130 FINANCE DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Finance Department.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-131 FINANCE DIRECTOR; OFFICE ESTABLISHED; DUTIES.
   There is hereby established the office of Finance Director. The Finance
Director shall be the head of the Finance Department and shall have such duties
and perform such functions as prescribed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-132 – 6-2-134 RESERVED.
PART 2. FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 6-2-135 FIRE DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Fire Department.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-136 FIRE CHIEF; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the office of Fire Chief of the city.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-137 SAME; DUTIES.
   The Fire Chief shall be the head of the Fire Department, and shall have,
under such rules and regulations as the City Manager may prescribe, supervision
of all firefighters, charge and control of the training, equipment, and
stationing of all firefighters, and charge and control of all the property,
implements, and apparatus used in the Fire Department. The Fire Chief shall
also perform all duties prescribed by the state statutes to be performed by the
Chief of the Fire Department, such duties as are or may be prescribed by the
municipal code to be performed by the Fire Department, and such other duties as
prescribed by the City Manager. The Fire Chief shall be a resident of the city,
the City of Gering, the Village of Terrytown, or of an unincorporated area
within five miles of the city limits of the city.
(Ord. 3636, passed - -1999)
§ 6-2-138 REPEALED.
§ 6-2-139 PERSONNEL; APPOINTMENT.
   The personnel of such department shall be appointed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-140 FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIREFIGHTERS; EMPLOY.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to employ paid firefighters.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-141 VOLUNTEER FIRE AND RESCUE PERSONNEL; RULES; REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager shall promulgate rules and regulations, which shall be
binding upon all volunteer fire and rescue personnel of the city, as well as
upon the city, determining who shall be deemed to be:
   (A)   Active volunteer fire and rescue personnel within the meaning of Neb.
RS Chapter 35; and
   (B)   Members of the Volunteer Fire Department who keep their dues promptly
paid up, and are present and render active service when called out for the
legitimate purposes of the Volunteer Fire Department of the city within the
meaning of Neb. RS Chapter 35.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-142 EQUIPMENT; SUPPLY; OWNERSHIP; POSSESSION.
   It shall be the duty of the City Manager at the expense of the city to
furnish and equip the firefighters of the city with waterproof coats, helmets,
and such other usual and necessary paraphernalia for their wear and use in
putting out or fighting fire in the city. Such equipment shall be and remain
the property of the city for immediate use in case of fire, and be under the
care and control of the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-143 SAME; CARE.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to keep its apparatus, hose,
engine, and other equipment in serviceable condition.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-144 – 6-2-146 RESERVED.
PART 3. LIBRARY DEPARTMENT
§ 6-2-147 LIBRARY; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Library Department.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-148 LIBRARY DIRECTOR; OFFICE ESTABLISHED; DUTIES.
   There is hereby established the office of Library Director. The Library
Director shall be the head of the Library Department and shall perform such
functions as prescribed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-149 – 6-2-151 RESERVED.
PART 4. DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 6-2-152 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-153 DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION; OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT;
DUTIES.
   There is hereby established the office of Director of Parks and Recreation.
The Director of Parks and Recreation shall be the head of the Department of
Parks and Recreation, and shall perform such functions as prescribed by the
City Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-154 – 6-2-156 RESERVED.
PART 5. PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT
§ 6-2-157 PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Personnel Department.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-158 PERSONNEL DIRECTOR; OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.
   There is hereby established the office of Personnel Director. The Personnel
Director shall be the head of the Personnel Department and shall perform such
functions as prescribed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-159 – 161 RESERVED.
PART 6. DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT
§ 6-2-162 DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHED; DUTIES.
   There hereby is established a Department of Development Services.
(Ord. 3534, passed - -1997)
§ 6-2-163 DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DIRECTOR; OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   There hereby is established the office of Development Services Director. The
Development Services Director shall be the head of the Development Services
Department. He or she shall perform such duties as prescribed by the municipal
code, and such other duties as prescribed by the City Manager. The Development
Services Director is also known as the Planning and Building Official. Any
reference in this code to “Planning and Building Official” or “City Planner”
shall be considered as a reference to the Development Services Director.
(Ord. 3898, passed - -2006)
§ 6-2-164 REPEALED.
§ 6-2-165 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIVISION; ESTABLISHED.
   There hereby is established a Community Development Division in the
Department of Development Services. The Division may exercise all the power and
authority granted to an urban renewal authority by the state statutes.
(Ord. 3534, passed - -1997)
§ 6-2-166 SAME; COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR; OFFICE; ESTABLISHED;
APPOINTMENT.
   There hereby is established the office of Community Development
Administrator who shall direct the Community Development Division. The
Community Development Administrator shall be appointed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§§ 6-2-167 – 6-2-169 RESERVED.
PART 7. POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 6-2-170 POLICE DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Police Department.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-171 POLICE CHIEF; OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the office of Police Chief.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 6-2-172 SAME; DUTIES; RESIDENCE.
   The Police Chief shall be the head of the Police Department, and, under such
rules and regulations as the City Manager may prescribe, shall have the
supervision of all police officers, both regular and special, the charge and
control of the training, equipping, and stationing of all such police officers,
and the charge and control of all the property and equipment used in the Police
Department. He or she shall also perform all the duties prescribed by the state
statutes to be performed by the Chief of Police or City Marshal, and such other
duties as are or may be prescribed by the ordinances of the city, to be
performed by the Police Department. The Police Chief shall be a resident of the
city, the City of Gering, the Village of Terrytown, or of an unincorporated
area within five miles of the city limits.
(Ord. 3636, passed - -1999)
§§ 6-2-173 – 6-2-174 RESERVED.
  PART 8. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
§ 6-2-175 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Public Works Department.
(Ord. 3706, passed - -2002)
§ 6-2-176 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the office of Public Works Director. The Public
Works Director shall be the head of the Public Works Department and shall
perform such functions as prescribed by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3706, passed - -2002)
§§ 6-2-177 – 6-2-199 RESERVED.
ARTICLE 3: COUNTY COURT
Section
   
6-3-1   Fines; remittance to school district treasurer
§ 6-3-1 FINES; REMITTANCE TO SCHOOL DISTRICT TREASURER.
   The City Treasurer shall pay over all fines and penalties received from the
County Court to the treasurer of the school district lying wholly or partially
within the city.
ARTICLE 4: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
6-4-1   Wards; defined
   
6-4-2   Municipal year; established
   
6-4-3   Abandoned personal property; impoundment
   
6-4-4   Same; sale
   
6-4-5   Same; reclaim
   
6-4-6   Same; proceeds of sale
   
6-4-7   Same; record
   
6-4-8   Same; account keeping; City Treasurer’s duties
§ 6-4-1 WARDS; DEFINED.
   The city shall be divided into four wards which are bounded by the following
lines.
   (A)   Line A shall be the line defined as: Beginning at the intersection of
Broadway Avenue and the southern corporate boundary of the city; then north on
Broadway to the centerline of 27th Street, then east on 27th Street to the
centerline of 5th Avenue, then north on 5th Avenue to the corporate boundary of
the city.
   (B)   Line B shall be the line defined as: Beginning at the center of the
intersection of Broadway and 18th Street; then east on 18th Street to the
centerline of 13th Avenue, then north on 13th Avenue to 20th Street, then east
on 20th Street to the corporate boundary of the city.
   (C)   Line C shall be the line defined as:
      (1)   Beginning at the center of the intersection of Broadway and 20th
Street; then west on 20th
Street to the corporate boundary of the city;
      (2)   Ward One shall be that portion of the city which lies east of Line
A and north of Line B;
      (3)   Ward Two shall be that portion of the city which lies east of Line
A and south of Line B;
      (4)   Ward Three shall be that portion of the city which lies west of
Line A and south of Line C; and
      (5)   Ward Four shall be that portion of the city which lies west of Line
A and north of Line C.
(Ord. 3207, passed - -1992; Ord. 4267, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 6-4-2 MUNICIPAL YEAR; ESTABLISHED.
   The municipal year of the city, for the purposes of granting or renewing
licenses and posting bonds in connection therewith, the designation of city
depositories, and all other matters of a general nature for which other
provision is not made by statute or ordinance shall begin on May 1 in each
year.
(Ord. 2689, passed - -1981)
§ 6-4-3 ABANDONED PERSONAL PROPERTY; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever a police officer shall find in the streets, alleys, or public
places of the city, or there shall be received by any police officer, any
article of personal property that has been abandoned or the owner of which
cannot be ascertained and located after reasonable inquiry, the police officer
may remove and impound such property, provided nothing in this article shall
apply to motor vehicles.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1941, passed - -1972)
§ 6-4-4 SAME; SALE.
   All property so impounded and remaining impounded for a period of 90 days or
more may be sold by the city at public auction. The City Clerk shall cause
notice of the sale to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city, and posted at not less than one conspicuous public place within the
city, not less than ten days prior to the sale. The notice shall identify with
reasonable particularity the property to be sold, and state the time and place
of sale. If the property has not clearly been abandoned, and the name and last
known address of the owner of the property can be ascertained by reasonable
inquiry, a copy of such published notice shall be mailed to such owner,
addressed to his or her last known address, not less than five days after
publication of the notice.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1941, passed - -1972)
§ 6-4-5 SAME; RECLAIM.
   Should any person prior to such sale establish to the satisfaction of the
Police Chief that such person is the owner of the property, the property shall
be delivered to such person at the place of impounding or sale upon payment by
such person to the city of the cost of publishing the notice.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1941, passed - -1972)
§ 6-4-6 SAME; PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   After the sale, the city shall:
   (A)   Deduct from the proceeds the cost of publishing the notice of the
sale;
   (B)   Hold the overplus, if any, of such proceeds subject to the order of
the owner of the property;
   (C)   Immediately after the sale, mail to the owner of the property, if his
or her name and last known address can be ascertained by reasonable inquiry, a
notice stating that such sale has been held and the amount of overplus, if any,
due such owner; and
   (D)   At any time within 12 months thereafter, upon demand of the owner, pay
such over plus to him or her.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1941, passed - -1972)
§ 6-4-7 SAME; RECORD.
   The Police Chief shall keep a record of all property impounded; the name and
last known address of the owner, if ascertainable by reasonable inquiry; the
circumstances of each impounding; and the disposition made of each property.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1941, passed - -1972)
§ 6-4-8 SAME; ACCOUNT KEEPING; CITY TREASURER’S DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to account for and pay to the City
Treasurer all fees and other amounts received by him or her under the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1941, passed - -1972)
ARTICLE 5: EMPLOYEES’ PENSIONS
Section
Plan; Creation; Effective Date; Definitions
   
6-5-1   General city employees’ pension plan
   
6-5-2   Exclusive benefit; non-diversion
   
6-5-3   Definitions; generally
   
6-5-4   Company
   
6-5-5   Credited years of service
   
6-5-6   Earned income
   
6-5-7   Salary
   
6-5-8   Employee
   
6-5-9   Employer
   
6-5-10   Salary reduction contribution
   
6-5-11   Employer’s regular contribution
   
6-5-12   Inactive member
   
6-5-13   Member
   
6-5-14   Member’s voluntary contribution; active member
   
6-5-15   Same; member absent on leave without pay
   
6-5-16   Employer’s additional contribution
   
6-5-17   Gender and number
   
6-5-18   Permanent position
   
6-5-19   Retirement Committee; established
   
6-5-20   Same; members
   
6-5-21   Same; election
   
6-5-22   Same; ballot
   
6-5-23   Same; time; notice
   
6-5-24   Same; nominations
   
6-5-25   Same; tabulation of ballots
   
6-5-26   Same; members elected
   
6-5-27   Same; records
   
6-5-28   Same; officers
   
6-5-29   Same; quorum
   
6-5-30   Same; duties of officers
   
6-5-31   Same; rules
Employment, Continuity, and Length
   
6-5-32   Active service; leave
   
6-5-33   Guard or reserve duty
   
6-5-34   Leave without pay
   
6-5-35   Reemployed member
   
6-5-36   Months; years
Eligibility for Membership
   
6-5-37   Membership; compulsory
   
6-5-38   General qualifications
   
6-5-39   Period of membership
   
6-5-40    – 6-5-43Reserved
Retirement
   
6-5-44   Normal retirement date
   
6-5-45   Early retirement date
   
6-5-46   Delayed retirement date
   
6-5-47   Commencement of retirement benefits
   
6-5-48    – 6-5-51Reserved
Contributions; Accounts; Future Service
   
6-5-52   Member’s account
   
6-5-53   Employer’s account
   
6-5-54    – 6-5-57Reserved
Retirement Benefits
   
6-5-58   Services on and after December 29, 1969; accounts; retirement value
   
6-5-59   Same; benefit; election
   
6-5-60   Services before December 29, 1969; eligibility
   
6-5-61   Same; benefit; election
   
6-5-62   Limitation on annuities
   
6-5-63   Limitation of benefits
   
6-5-64    – 6-5-67Reserved
Other Benefits
   
6-5-68   Benefits on termination of employment
   
6-5-69   Death benefit
   
6-5-70   Limitation on installments
   
6-5-71   Disability benefit
   
6-5-72   Limitation on installments
   
6-5-73    – 6-5-76Reserved
Continuance of Plan
   
6-5-77   Continuance of plan
   
6-5-78   Amendments
   
6-5-79   Termination of plan
   
6-5-80    – 6-5-83Reserved
Firefighters
   
6-5-84   Firefighters’ Retirement System; establishment
   
6-5-85   Firefighters’ Retirement System Fund; established; investment
   
6-5-86   Retirement Committee established; operation
   
6-5-87   Same; selection; terms; members; qualifications; vacancies
   
6-5-88   Retirement Committee; members selected by firefighters; election
   
6-5-89   Same; ballot
   
6-5-90   Same; time; notice
   
6-5-91   Same; nominations
   
6-5-92   Same; ballots; tabulating
   
6-5-93   Same; who elected
   
6-5-94   Same; City Clerk; records
   
6-5-95   Retirement Committee; chairperson; vice chairperson; secretary; terms;
qualifications; election
   
6-5-96   Same; vacancies
   
6-5-97   Same; quorum
   
6-5-98   Same; chairperson; vice chairperson; duties
   
6-5-99   Retirement Committee; rules
   
6-5-100    – 6-5-103Reserved
Police Officers
   
6-5-104   Definitions; generally
   
6-5-105   Members from both the police force
   
6-5-106   Officers from the police force
   
6-5-107   Participating police officer
   
6-5-108   Police force
   
6-5-109   Police officer
   
6-5-110   Police officers’ retirement system; established
   
6-5-111   Police officers’ Retirement System Fund; established; investment
   
6-5-112   Retirement Committee; established; operation
   
6-5-113   Same; selection; terms; members; qualifications; vacancies
   
6-5-114   Retirement Committee; members selected by police officers; election
   
6-5-115   Same; ballot
   
6-5-116   Same; time; notice
   
6-5-117   Same; nominations
   
6-5-118   Same; ballots; tabulating
   
6-5-119   Same; who elected
   
6-5-120   Same; City Clerk; records
   
6-5-121   Retirement Committee; chairperson; vice chairperson; secretary; term;
qualifications; election
   
6-5-122   Same; vacancies
   
6-5-123   Same; quorum
   
6-5-124   Same; chairperson; vice chairperson; duties
   
6-5-125   Retirement Committee; rules
Statutory reference:
   City employees’ pensions, see Neb. RS 19-3501
PLAN; CREATION; EFFECTIVE DATE; DEFINITIONS
§ 6-5-1 GENERAL CITY EMPLOYEES’ PENSION PLAN.
   A pension plan, which shall be known as the Scottsbluff General City
Employees’ Pension Plan, and which is designed and intended to provide
retirement benefits for eligible appointed employees of the city, excluding
employees subject to the provisions of the police officer’s and firefighter’s
pension statutes, is hereby created by the city. The pension plan so created
began operation December 29, 1969, which date is the original effective date of
the plan. The plan is designed and intended to comply with the applicable
provisions of Internal Revenue Code § 401(a), being 26 U.S.C. § 401(a) as
amended, and the applicable provisions of the state statutes, as amended. The
plan subsequently has been amended from time to time by ordinance provisions
included in this article. The provisions in this article shall apply to such
pension.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-2 EXCLUSIVE BENEFIT; NON-DIVERSION.
   This pension plan is maintained for the exclusive benefit of eligible
employees of the city, or their beneficiaries, for the purpose of distributing
to such eligible employees or their beneficiaries the corpus and income of the
funds accumulated under this pension plan. Under this pension plan, it is
impossible, prior to the satisfaction of all liabilities with respect to such
eligible employees and their beneficiaries, for any part of the corpus or
income of this pension plan to be used for, or diverted to, purposes other than
the exclusive benefit of such eligible employees and their beneficiaries.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-3 DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   As used in this article, the words and phrases defined in such sections of
this article shall have the meanings so ascribed to them in such sections,
unless the context otherwise requires.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-4 COMPANY.
   COMPANY. A company approved by the city for the purpose of administering
this retirement plan.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-5 CREDITED YEARS OF SERVICE.
   CREDITED YEARS OF SERVICE. Every year of service, after age 21 and the first
full year of service, during which the employee worked at least 37 hours per
week for 48 weeks.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-6 EARNED INCOME.
   EARNED INCOME. The sum of all salary payable to the member in any one
calendar year, before salary reduction contributions.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-7 SALARY.
   SALARY. The amount payable at regular intervals to the member for services
performed, before salary reduction contributions but excluding amounts paid the
member for reimbursable expenditures. The amount of salary taken into account
for any year shall not exceed $200,000, as adjusted by the Secretary of the
Treasury. On and after August 1, 1994, the amount of salary taken into account
for any year shall not exceed $150,000, as adjusted by the Secretary of the
Treasury.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-8 EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, excluding persons subject to the provisions of the
police officer’s and fire officer’s pension, who has been or shall be appointed
to a permanent position which requires active service for the employer at least
37 hours each week and at least 48 weeks each year.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-9 EMPLOYER.
   EMPLOYER. The City of Scottsbluff.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-10 SALARY REDUCTION CONTRIBUTION.
   The employer shall deposit bi-weekly with the company to the account of the
member an amount equal to 3% of the bi-weekly salary otherwise payable or
creditable to the member, instead of paying or crediting such amount to the
member directly. The amount so deposited shall be designated as “salary
reduction contributions”, but, although designated as employee contributions,
are being paid by the employer in lieu of contributions by the member. Such
contributions shall be fully vested and nonforfeitable for purposes of the
plan. Such contributions are a condition of the employment of any member, and
no member has discretion to receive the contributions directly instead of
having them paid by the employer to the plan. The amount of withholding and
contributions by the employer for purposes of FICA shall be computed on the
amount of the member’s earned income, but the whole of the amount to be
withheld shall be withheld solely from that portion of the member’s earned
income payable or creditable to the member after deduction of the salary
reduction contributions.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-11 EMPLOYER’S REGULAR CONTRIBUTION.
   EMPLOYER’S REGULAR CONTRIBUTION. The amount deposited with the company by
the employer on behalf of a member as provided in this section. The employer’s
regular monthly contribution for each member shall be an amount equal to 3% of
the member’s earned income. With respect to each member who shall be entitled
to past service benefits, the employer also shall deposit, prior to the time
when payment of such benefits is to commence, an amount or amounts sufficient
to purchase a straight-life monthly annuity for such member as provided in this
article.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-12 INACTIVE MEMBER.
   INACTIVE MEMBER. A person whose employment with the employer ceases before
he or she enters into retirement.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-13 MEMBER.
   MEMBER. An employee of the city as defined in this article who participates
in this plan and who is not an inactive member.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-14 MEMBER’S VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION; ACTIVE MEMBER.
   MEMBER’S VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION. Any contribution made by a member
voluntarily beyond the member’s salary reduction contributions. Any member may
make voluntary contributions at a rate not to exceed 10% of his or her earned
income during each year; provided, any highly compensated employee, as defined
by Internal Revenue Service, may not make a voluntary contribution that exceeds
by more than 2% the average of the percentage contributions of all non-highly
compensated employees; and provided, further, no MEMBER’S VOLUNTARY
CONTRIBUTIONS shall be made which do not conform to the requirements of
Internal Revenue Code § 401(m), being 26 U.S.C. § 401(m) nondiscrimination test
for matching contributions and employee contributions. For the purposes of the
above phrase PERCENTAGE CONTRIBUTIONS, the term CONTRIBUTIONS shall include
both the members’ salary reduction contributions and their voluntary
contributions.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-15 SAME; MEMBER ABSENT ON LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   Any member absent on leave without pay may, for not to exceed one year,
continue to make voluntary contributions, which contributions, however, shall
be not less than at the rate of 6% of his or her most recent annual earned
income, if he or she desires to continue to acquire further service credits
during his or her leave of absence; provided, no contributions by a member
absent on leave shall be made which do not conform to the requirements of
Internal Revenue Code § 401(m), being 26 U.S.C. § 401(m) nondiscrimination test
for matching contributions and employee contributions.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-16 EMPLOYER’S ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTION.
   EMPLOYER’S ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTION. The amount deposited with the company by
the employer to match a member’s voluntary contribution. Beginning September
28, 1987, the EMPLOYER’S ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTION shall be an amount equal to
one-half of the member’s voluntary contribution; provided, the EMPLOYER’S
ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTION shall not exceed a maximum of 1.5% of the member’s
earned income. Voluntary contributions made by a member absent  on leave
without pay shall not be matched by the employer.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-17 GENDER AND NUMBER.
   The masculine generally shall include the feminine, and the singular shall
include the plural.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-18 PERMANENT POSITION.
   PERMANENT POSITION. A full-time position authorized in the city’s annual
budget.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-19 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a General Employees Retirement Committee to supervise
the general operation of the General Employees Retirement Fund.
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-20 SAME; MEMBERS.
   The General Employees Retirement Committee shall consist of the Mayor, the
City Manager, the City Finance Director, and a member from each of the
following city departments: Administration, Library, Development Services, and
Police. There shall be two members from the Department of Parks and Recreation,
one of whom shall be an employee of and elected by the employees of the Zoo
Division. There shall be four members from the Department of Public Works, one
each of whom shall be an employee of and elected by the employees of the Water
Division, Wastewater Division, Transportation Division, and Environmental
Services Division. Each department shall elect the member to represent that
department as set out in this article. All committee members shall serve for
terms of three years. In order to represent a department, a member shall be an
employee of the city whose primary duties are conducted in that department and
who is a participant in the General Employees Retirement Fund. For the purposes
of this section, “Administration” shall be deemed to consist of employees who
are assigned to the office of the City Manager, the City Clerk, the Finance
Department, and the Personnel Department.
(Ord. 3718, passed - -2002)
§ 6-5-21 SAME; ELECTION.
   The member from each department who will serve on the Retirement Committee
shall be elected by that department at an election to be conducted by the City
Clerk according to the procedures set out in this article. The City Clerk shall
be the judge of the sufficiency of all acts performed in connection with the
election.
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-22 SAME; BALLOT.
   Each department election shall be accomplished by secret ballots on forms to
be supplied by the City Clerk upon request. Each ballot shall contain the names
of all candidates listed in alphabetical order who have been nominated as
provided in this article, and shall bear no identification of the person who
marked the ballot. Each ballot shall be deposited by the person who marked the
ballot with the City Clerk, or the City Clerk’s designee, in a sealed envelope
before 4:00 p.m. on the date of the election, or by mailing to the City Clerk
by certified mail not less than three days prior to the date of the election.
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-23 SAME; TIME; NOTICE.
   The first election shall be held on May 1, 1994. Elections shall then be
held annually on each May 1 (or, if this date is a Saturday, Sunday or city
holiday, on the first Monday following). If the City Clerk determines that
there are one or more vacancies in the membership of the Committee, the City
Clerk shall call a special election to fill the unexpired term for any vacated
positions, which shall be held not sooner than 15 days nor later than 45 days
after the City Clerk determines that a vacancy has occurred, as determined by
the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall cause notice of each election together
with a copy of §§
6-5-19 through
6-5-31 of this subchapter, and other written information concerning the
election as the City Clerk shall determine to be necessary and proper, to be
delivered to each department employee who is a participant in the General
Employees Retirement Fund or mailed to each employee to the last known
residence of each employee, not less than ten days prior to the date of the
election.
(Ord. 3356, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-24 SAME; NOMINATIONS.
   An employee of a department may nominate himself or herself as a candidate
for the department representative on the Retirement Committee. Other
nominations may be made by three or more departmental employees. All
nominations shall be made in writing on a form to be supplied by the City
Clerk, which form shall be signed by the departmental employee or departmental
employees making the nomination and be deposited with or mailed to the City
Clerk, or the City Clerk’s designee, not less than seven days prior to the date
of the election, or, if mailed, mailed by certified mail to the City Clerk not
less than seven days prior to the date of the election.
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-25 SAME; TABULATION OF BALLOTS.
   Within 24 hours after expiration of the time within which the ballots are to
be deposited with the City Clerk or the City Clerk’s designee (exclusive of
Saturdays, Sundays and city holidays), the City Clerk, in the presence of
either the City Manager or the Assistant City Manager, shall cause the
envelopes containing the ballots to be opened, and the votes for the candidate
or candidates to be counted and tabulated, and shall enter in the records of
his or her office a certificate signed by the City Clerk, stating the time
when, the place where and the name of the person(s) in whose presence the
envelopes were opened and the ballots were counted and tabulated, the number of
ballots timely deposited in an acceptable form, and the total number of valid
votes cast for the candidate or each candidate for the position(s). The City
Clerk shall also retain ballots, if any, which were received but not counted,
to which shall be appended a statement, signed by the City Clerk, concerning
the reason(s) for non-counting. 
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-26 SAME; MEMBERS ELECTED.
   The candidate receiving the highest number of votes from the employees of a
department shall be determined to have been elected to represent that
department. In the case of a tie vote, the names of the persons as to which
there has been a tie vote shall be placed on separate ballots which shall be
drawn by lot by the City Clerk or the City Clerk’s designee. The person whose
name is drawn first shall be the person elected.
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-27 SAME; RECORDS.
   In addition to the records referred to in the previous sections, the City
Clerk shall establish and maintain records concerning the following:
   (A)   The names and addresses of each departmental employee eligible to
receive, and to whom was delivered or mailed, the notice of election and
accompanying documents;
   (B)   A copy of the notice and other documents delivered or mailed, and a
certificate concerning the date on which delivery or mailing occurred;
   (C)   Nominations received in acceptable form and dates of receipt, and
nominations, if any, which were not timely received or were not in acceptable
form and, if not in acceptable form, the reason(s) for non-acceptance; and
   (D)   The names and addresses of the departmental employees by whom ballots
were deposited with, or mailed by certified mail to, the City Clerk, or the
City Clerk’s designee, and the date and hour of the deposit or mailing.
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-28 SAME; OFFICERS.
   The officers of the Retirement Committee shall be chairperson, vice
chairperson, and secretary. Each officer’s term of office shall be a period of
one year beginning on the date of election. All officers shall be elected by a
majority vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Committee. Vacancies
in any of the officer positions shall be filled by election in the same manner
as elections for a whole term of office, except that the officer elected shall
serve for the unexpired term of the office for which the vacancy existed.
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-29 SAME; QUORUM.
   A quorum shall be a majority of the members of the Retirement Committee for
the transaction of any business (other than the election of officers).
(Ord. 3626, passed - -1999)
§ 6-5-30 SAME; DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   The chairperson of the Retirement Committee shall preside at meetings of the
Committee, and shall have the power to vote as a member of the Committee. The
vice chairperson shall perform the duties of the chairperson in the event of
disability or absence of the chairperson.
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
§ 6-5-31 SAME; RULES.
   The Retirement Committee shall adopt rules of procedure governing the
calling of its meetings (which shall provide for adequate notice) and the
conduct of its meetings, and providing for other rules and regulations, not
inconsistent with federal or state law or the municipal code, as the Committee
shall determine to be necessary or proper for the orderly and proper
performance of its duties.
(Ord. 3352, passed - -1994)
EMPLOYMENT, CONTINUITY, AND LENGTH
§ 6-5-32 ACTIVE SERVICE; LEAVE.
   EMPLOYMENT for the purposes of this article only shall mean the total length
of continuous active service for the employer, together with the period of any
vacation, holiday, sick leave, special leave, or leave without pay, commencing
on or after December 29, 1968.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-33 GUARD OR RESERVE DUTY.
   Any employee who, while an employee, participates in active training duty or
duty with troops or at field exercises or for instructions, not to exceed 15
days in any one calendar year, as a member of the National Guard of Nebraska,
Army Reserve, Naval Reserve, Marine Corps Reserve, Air Force Reserve, or Coast
Guard Reserve shall be deemed to have been on special leave with pay.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-34 LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   Absence with leave without pay includes any leave of absence without pay
which may hereafter be granted to an employee by special permission of the City
Manager. Any employee who, while an employee, for the purpose of being inducted
into, enlisting in, determining physical fitness to enter, or performing
training duty in the Armed Forces of the United States or National Guard of
Nebraska, when ordered by proper authority to active service, and who, within
90 days after honorable discharge or separation from active duty returns to the
service of the employer, also shall be deemed to have been absent with leave
without pay.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-35 REEMPLOYED MEMBER.
   After December 29, 1969, a person whose employment has ceased, and who may
have been or may thereafter be reemployed by the employer, shall be deemed to
have been employed by the employer only from the date of such reemployment.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-36 MONTHS; YEARS.
   Length of service shall be computed:
   (A)   For purposes of benefits payable in respect of services rendered on or
after December 29, 1969, by taking into consideration only full calendar months
of service; and
   (B)   For purposes of benefits payable in respect of services rendered prior
to December 29, 1969, by taking into consideration only full years of service.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
ELIGIBILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP
§ 6-5-37 MEMBERSHIP; COMPULSORY.
   Each employee who shall be eligible to become a member of the plan shall
become such a member.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-38 GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS.
   Prior to January 1, 1988, each employee shall be eligible to become a member
of the plan on any January 1 or July 1 succeeding his or her twenty-first
birthday and when such employee has been continuously employed by the employer
for the 12 months next preceding his or her date of eligibility and has not
attained age 64 on or before his or her date of eligibility. Effective January
1, 1988, each employee who has otherwise met the eligibility requirements of
this article as of January 1, 1988, shall become a member of the plan as of
January 1, 1988, determined without regard to the employee’s entry into
employment after attaining age 64. After December 31, 1987, each employee shall
be eligible to become a member of the plan on the first day of the month
following the date when the employee has been continuously employed by the
employer for the 12 months next preceding his or her date of eligibility,
provided however, that if upon such date the employee has not reached his or
her twenty-first birthday, then he or she shall become eligible to become a
member of the plan on his or her twenty-first birthday.
(Ord. 3619, passed - -1999)
§ 6-5-39 PERIOD OF MEMBERSHIP.
   Each employee shall become a member of the plan on the first date when he or
she shall have met the general qualifications set forth in the preceding
section; provided, an employee who becomes eligible to become a member of the
plan when he or she is absent with leave without pay shall not be eligible to
become a member until the first day of the month next succeeding his or her
return to active service with the city. Each employee, upon becoming a member
of the plan, shall have withheld from his or her earned income, by the
employer, the amount of his or her member’s contribution. A person who shall
have become a member of the plan shall not thereafter lose his or her status as
such member while he or she continues to be in the employment of the employer,
and his or her membership shall terminate when he or she ceases to be in the
employment of the employer, upon retirement or otherwise, and he or she shall
be entitled only to those benefits herein specifically provided.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§§ 6-5-40 – 6-5-43 RESERVED.
RETIREMENT
§ 6-5-44 NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE.
   Each member or inactive member shall be eligible to retire at the end of the
month in which his or her 65th birthday occurs.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-45 EARLY RETIREMENT DATE.
   Any member or inactive member may retire at the end of any month after his
or her sixty-fifth birthday.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-46 DELAYED RETIREMENT DATE.
   If a member remains in employment after his or her normal retirement date,
the date of his or her termination of employment with the employer shall be his
or her retirement date.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-47 COMMENCEMENT OF RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   Retirement benefits under §§
6-5-58,
6-5-59,
6-5-60, or
6-5-61 of this article shall not commence until the member shall have
terminated employment with the employer.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§§ 6-5-48 – 6-5-51 RESERVED.
CONTRIBUTIONS; ACCOUNTS; FUTURE SERVICE
§ 6-5-52 MEMBER’S ACCOUNT.
   Each member’s contributions will be held by the company in a separate
account (but not a segregated fund) to the credit of the member. Investment
earnings, gains, and losses will be credited to the member’s account according
to the contract with the company.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-53 EMPLOYER’S ACCOUNT.
   The employer’s contribution for each member will be held by the company in a
separate account (but not segregated fund) and accumulated along with
investment earnings, gains, and losses according to the contract with the
company. Recaptures of employer contributions on terminations in accordance
with §
6-5-68 of this article will be used as a credit against future employer
contributions.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§§ 6-5-54 – 6-5-57 RESERVED.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
§ 6-5-58 SERVICES ON AND AFTER DECEMBER 29, 1969; ACCOUNTS; RETIREMENT VALUE.
   At the retirement date of a member, the sum of the amounts in his or her
member’s account and his or her employer’s account shall be combined. The
combined amount shall be called the retirement value. At the retirement date of
an inactive member, the amount is his or her inactive member’s account, as
defined in §
6-5-68 of this article, shall be called the retirement value.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-59 SAME; BENEFIT; ELECTION.
   (A)   The retirement value, at the election of the member or inactive member
made at least 60 days prior to his or her retirement date shall be:
      (1)   Applied to purchase a monthly annuity on the plan elected by the
member or the inactive member; or
      (2)   Paid to the member in a lump sum.
   (B)   The annuity options shall be based on the alternative agreed upon
between the employer and the company, or any other plan requested by the member
or inactive member and approved by the company. In the event that no such
election of plan with respect to an annuity is made, the annuity will be on the
life annuity plan. The minimum single annuity payment shall be $15. If annuity
payments payable hereunder shall be less than $15 a month, the company shall
pay to the member in one sum an amount equal to the member’s account.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-60 SERVICES BEFORE DECEMBER 29, 1969; ELIGIBILITY.
   Employees who shall have become members of the plan effective December 29,
1969, shall upon attaining age 65 or upon retirement, whichever is later, be
entitled to receive payment of retirement benefits, also, in respect of
services rendered prior to December 29, 1969, as provided in §
6-5-61 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-61 SAME; BENEFIT; ELECTION.
   The benefits to which a member shall be entitled under §
6-5-60 of this subchapter shall be, at the election of the member:
   (A)   A monthly annuity payment in an amount equal to .2% of the member’s
monthly salary on December 29, 1969, multiplied by the number of full years of
service rendered prior to December 29, 1969, which would have constituted
credited years of service had the plan been in effect throughout the term of
such service; or
   (B)   A lump sum payment equal to the retirement values.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-62 LIMITATION ON ANNUITIES.
   Notwithstanding any other section to the contrary, no annuity may be
selected under §§
6-5-59 or
6-5-61 of this subchapter unless such annuity provides that the entire interest
of the retired active or inactive member:
   (A)   Will be distributed to such retiree not later than the required
beginning date;
   (B)   Will be distributed, beginning not later than the required beginning
date, in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury,
over the life of such retiree or over the lives of such retiree and a
designated beneficiary (or over a period not extending beyond the life
expectancy of such retiree or the life expectancy of such retiree and a
designated beneficiary);
   (C)   If the distribution of the retiree’s interest has begun in accordance
with division (B) above, and the retiree dies before his or her entire interest
has been distributed to him or her, the remaining portion of such interest will
be distributed at least as rapidly as under the method of distributions being
used under division (B) above as of the date of his or her death;
   (D)   Except as provided in divisions (E) and (G) below, if a retiree dies
before the distribution of the retiree’s interest has begun in accordance with
division (B) above, the entire interest of the retiree will be distributed
within five years after the death of such retiree;
   (E)   If any portion of the retiree’s interest is payable to (or for the
benefit of) a designated beneficiary:
      (1)   Such portion will be distributed (in accordance with regulations)
over the life of such designated beneficiary (or over a period not extending
beyond the life expectancy of such beneficiary); and
      (2)   Such distributions begin not later than one year after the date of
the retiree’s death or such later date as the secretary of the Treasury may by
regulations prescribe.
   (F)   For purposes of division (D) above, the portion referred to in
division (E) above shall be treated as distributed on the date on which such
distributions begin;
   (G)   If the designated beneficiary referred to in division (E) above is the
surviving spouse of the retiree:
      (1)   The date on which the distributions are required to begin under
division (E)(2) above shall not be earlier than the date on which the retiree
would have attained age 70-1/2; and
      (2)   If the surviving spouse dies before the distributions to such
spouse begin, divisions (C), (D), (E), and (F) above shall be applied as if the
surviving spouse were the retiree.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, the term REQUIRED BEGINNING DATE means
April 1 of the  calendar year following the later of the calendar year in which
the employee attains age 70-1/2 or the calendar year in which the employee
retires;
   (I)   For purposes of this section, the life expectancy of a retiree and the
retiree’s spouse (other than in the case of a life annuity) may be redetermined
but not more frequently than annually;
   (J)   For purposes of this section, the term DESIGNATED BENEFICIARY means
any individual designated as a beneficiary by the retiree;
   (K)   Under regulations prescribed by the secretary of the Treasury, for
purposes of this section, any amount paid to a child shall be treated as if it
had been paid to the surviving spouse if such amount will become payable to the
surviving spouse upon such child reaching majority (or other designated event
permitted under regulations); and
   (L)   For all purposes, any distribution required under the incidental death
benefit requirements of § 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 , being
26 U.S.C. § 401(a), as amended, shall be treated as a distribution required
under this section. In this regard, any annuity or installation form of payment
selected by the retiree must provide that distributions will be made in
accordance with the regulations of the secretary of the Treasury under such §
401(a)(9) including the incidental death benefit requirements of 26 C.F.R. §
1.401(a)(9)-2 of the regulations, the provisions of which are incorporated
herein by this reference.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-63 LIMITATION OF BENEFITS.
   The limitations on annual benefits for an employee covered by a defined
benefit plan, annual additions for an employee covered by a defined
contribution plan and annual benefits, and annual additions for an employee
covered by a combination of defined benefit and defined contribution plans
maintained by the employer under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, § 415(b),
(c) and (e), being 26 U.S.C. § 415(b), (c) and (e), respectively, as amended,
are incorporated herein by this reference. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
limitation of § 415(b), being 26 U.S.C. § 415(b) for any employee who first
participated in the plan before January 1, 1990, shall not be less than such
employee’s accrued benefit (determined without regard to any amendment made
after October 14, 1987); provided, however, in the event that the limitations
of § 415(e), being 26 U.S.C. § 415(e) would be exceeded for any limitation
year, such employee’s annual benefit under §
6-5-61 of this subchapter shall be decreased to the extent necessary to satisfy
such limitations. The employer has made the election described in § 415(b)(10)
(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. § 415(b)(10)(c).
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§§ 6-5-64 – 6-5-67 RESERVED.
OTHER BENEFITS
§ 6-5-68 BENEFITS ON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Any member leaving the employment of the employer before his or her
normal retirement date and before completing four years as a member shall
receive a lump sum payment equal to his or her member’s account. A terminating
member having completed four years or more as a member may elect to receive a
lump sum payment equal to his or her member’s account whether or not he or she
elects to receive such lump sum payment, his or her member’s account, if any,
and employer’s account shall be replaced by a single account called his or her
inactive member’s account, which at his or her election may be used to purchase
a deferred annuity at a retirement age, or shall be paid to him or her in a
lump sum at such an age. The amount in his or her inactive member’s account at
the date of termination shall be equal to the sum of any amount remaining in
his or her member’s account together with a percentage of the amount in his or
her employer’s account. Said percentage shall depend on the number of credited
years of service prior to the date of termination in accordance with the
following table:
 
Years of Credited Service Upon Date of Percentage of Employer’s Account
Termination
4 years                                40%
5 years                                60%
6 years                                80%
7 years                                100%
 
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a member’s percentage of his or her
employer’s account shall be 100% upon attaining his or her normal retirement
date. As of January 5 of each year, each inactive member’s account will be
credited with interest less expenses for the previous year.
   (C)   The forfeited percentage of the employer’s account shall reduce the
amount of the employer’s regular contribution under §
6-5-11 of this article.
   (D)   For any employee who completes one hour of service with the employer
on or after January 1, 1988, and who was ineligible to participate in the plan
by virtue of the limitation appearing at the end of the first sentence of §
6-5-38 of this article, credited to such employee prior to January 1, 1988
shall be taken into account solely for the purpose of determining such
employee’s percentage of employer’s account; provided, however, such employee’s
years of credited service credited to the employee before January 1, 1988,
shall not be taken into account for purposes of determining such employee’s
percentage of employer’s account for years beginning on and after January 1,
1988.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-69 DEATH BENEFIT.
   In the event of the death of a member before his or her retirement date, the
death benefit shall be a lump sum payment equal to his or her member’s account
and employer’s account. In the event of the death of an inactive member before
his or her retirement date, the death benefit shall be a lump sum payment equal
to the amount in the inactive member’s account at the date of death. The death
benefit shall be paid to the beneficiary designated by the member or inactive
member, or to his or her personal representative in the absence of a
beneficiary designation. Either the beneficiary or, before the date of death,
the member or inactive member may elect to have the death benefit paid in
installments on any basis satisfactory to the company.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-70 LIMITATION ON INSTALLMENTS.
   Any installment method of distribution selected under §
6-5-69 of this subchapter shall satisfy the requirements of §
6-5-62 of this article.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-71 DISABILITY BENEFIT.
   In the event of total permanent disability of a member before his or her
retirement date, he or she shall be eligible for a lump sum payment equal to
his or her member’s account and employer’s account. In the event of total
permanent disability of an inactive member before his or her retirement date,
he or she shall be eligible for a lump sum payment equal to his or her inactive
member’s account. The member or inactive member may elect to have the
disability benefit paid in installments on any basis satisfactory to the
company. Such benefit shall be in addition to other benefits to which the
member may be entitled under this article.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-72 LIMITATION ON INSTALLMENTS.
   Any installment method of distribution selected under §
6-5-71 of this subchapter shall satisfy the requirements of §
6-5-62 of this article.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§§ 6-5-73 – 6-5-76 RESERVED.
CONTINUANCE OF PLAN
§ 6-5-77 CONTINUANCE OF PLAN.
   It is the expectation of the employer that it will continue this plan and
the payments of its contributions hereunder indefinitely, but the same is not
assumed as a contractual obligation of the employer, and the right is reserved
to the employer by action of its City Council at any time to discontinue this
plan and its contributions hereunder.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-78 AMENDMENTS.
   The employer may at any time amend this plan in any manner which it deems
desirable, but no such amendment shall have the effect of reverting in the
employer any part of the funds theretofore contributed, nor to reduce the value
of pension or other benefits theretofore accrued to any member or beneficiary
by reason of contributions theretofore made.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§ 6-5-79 TERMINATION OF PLAN.
   Upon discontinuance of contributions by the employer for the purpose of
terminating the plan, retirement annuities and deferred retirement annuities
shall be purchased for the members with the amount remaining in the employee,
employer, and inactive member accounts as of the date of such discontinuance of
contributions.
(Ord. 3148, passed - -1990)
§§ 6-5-80 – 6-5-83 RESERVED.
FIREFIGHTERS
§ 6-5-84 FIREFIGHTERS’ RETIREMENT SYSTEM; ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There hereby is established pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 16, Article
10, subdivision (b), as now existing or hereafter amended, a Firefighters’
Retirement System (hereinafter usually referred to as “F.R.S.”), which:
      (1)   Shall comply with all of the mandatory provisions of such statute
as interpreted in this subchapter (as hereby adopted or subsequently
supplemented or otherwise amended); and
      (2)   With respect to authorizing but nonmandatory provisions of such
statute, shall have such other features, as are prescribed in this subchapter
(as hereby adopted or subsequently supplemented or otherwise amended).
   (B)   Such Firefighters’ Retirement System shall become operative January 1,
1984, except that all requirements in the statute concerning acts to be done
with respect to the system prior to that date, for which provision is not
expressly made in this subchapter, shall be timely performed as provided in the
statute.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-85 FIREFIGHTERS’ RETIREMENT SYSTEM FUND; ESTABLISHED; INVESTMENT.
   There hereby is established, and the city shall keep and maintain, a
Firefighters’ Retirement System Fund for the purpose of investing payroll
deductions and city contributions to the Firefighters’ Retirement System. The
Retirement Committee shall contract on behalf of the city for investment of the
funds in such fund in accordance with the applicable state statutes, as now
existing or hereafter amended.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-86 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; ESTABLISHED; OPERATION.
   There hereby is established a Firefighters’ Retirement System Retirement
Committee of six members to supervise the general operation of the
Firefighters’ Retirement System.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-87 SAME; SELECTION; TERMS; MEMBERS; QUALIFICATIONS; VACANCIES.
   The members of the Retirement Committee shall be selected and shall have
such terms of office, and vacancies shall be filled, as provided in the
applicable state statutes, as now existing or hereafter amended. The four
members of the Retirement Committee to be selected by the active paid
firefighters (excluding firefighters identified in Neb. RS 16-1039), shall be
active members of the city’s Fire Department or members of the general public.
One of the two members to be designated by the City Council shall be the Mayor,
or such other member of the City Council as the City Council shall by
resolution designate, and the other member shall be the City Manager. The
members of the Committee who are not participants in the Firefighters’
Retirement System shall have a general knowledge of retirement plans.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-88 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; MEMBERS SELECTED BY FIREFIGHTERS; ELECTION.
   The four members of the Retirement Committee to be selected by the active
paid firefighters (with the exception noted in §
6-5-87 of this subchapter) shall be elected by such firefighters at an election
to be conducted by the City Clerk in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. The City Clerk shall be the judge of the sufficiency of all acts
performed in connection with the election.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-89 SAME; BALLOT.
   Such election shall be accomplished by secret ballots on forms to be
supplied by the City Clerk upon request. Each ballot shall contain the names of
all candidates, listed in alphabetical order, who have been nominated as
provided in §
6-5-91 of this subchapter, and shall bear no identification of the person who
marked the ballot. Such ballot shall be deposited by the person who marked the
ballot with the City Clerk, or the City Clerk’s deputy, in a sealed envelope
before 4:00 p.m. on the date of the election, or by such person mailed to the
City Clerk by certified mail not less than three days prior to the date of the
election.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-90 SAME; TIME; NOTICE.
   The first such election shall be held on November 28, 1983, and subsequent
regular elections shall be held on the same date of the month (or, if such date
is a Saturday, Sunday or city holiday, on the first Monday following) at
subsequent four-year intervals. In the event there occurs a vacancy in the
membership of such members of the Committee of which the City Clerk shall be
the judge, the City Clerk shall call a special election to fill the unexpired
term of the member(s) whose position(s) have (has) been vacated, which shall be
held not sooner than 15 days nor later than 45 days after the vacancy shall
have occurred, as determined by the City Clerk. The Clerk shall cause notice of
each such election, whether regular or special, together with a copy of §§
6-5-86 through
6-5-94 of this subchapter, inclusive, of this article, and such other written
information concerning the election as the City Clerk shall determine to be
necessary or proper to be delivered to each active member of the Fire
Department (with the exception noted in §
6-5-87 of this subchapter), or mailed to each such firefighter in a postage
prepaid envelope addressed to the last known residence of such firefighter, not
less than seven days prior to the date of the election.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-91 SAME; NOMINATIONS.
   Nominations of candidates to be elected by the firefighters, or to fill
vacancies in such positions, may be made only as herein provided. A firefighter
may nominate himself or herself; other nominations may be made by three or more
firefighters. All such nominations shall be made in writing on a form to be
supplied by the City Clerk, which form shall be signed by the firefighter or
firefighters making the nomination and be deposited with the City Clerk, or the
City Clerk’s deputy, not less than two days prior to the date of the election
or, if mailed, mailed by certified mail to the City Clerk not less than five
days prior to the date of the election.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-92 SAME; BALLOTS; TABULATING.
   Within 24 hours expiration of the time within which the ballots are to be
deposited with the City Clerk (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and city
holidays), the City Clerk, in the presence of the Fire Chief, shall cause the
envelopes containing the ballots which shall have been timely deposited as
herein provided to be opened, and the votes for the candidate or candidates to
be counted and tabulated, and shall enter in the records of his or her office a
certificate, signed by him or her, stating the time when, the place where and
name of the person(s) in whose presence the envelopes were opened, and the
ballots were counted and tabulated, the number of ballots timely deposited and
in acceptable form, and the total number of valid votes cast for the candidate
or each candidate for the position(s). The City Clerk shall also retain
ballots, if any, which were received but not counted, to which shall be
appended a statement, signed by the City Clerk, concerning the reason(s) for
noncounting.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-93 SAME; WHO ELECTED.
   Where four members are to be selected, the four candidates receiving the
highest number of votes shall be deemed to have been elected by the
firefighters. Where more than one vacancy is to be filled, the candidates to
fill such vacancies, equal in number to the number of vacancies to be filled,
who receive the highest number of votes shall be deemed to have been elected to
fill such vacancies. Where only one vacancy is to be filled, the candidate
receiving the highest number of votes to fill the vacancy shall be deemed to
have been elected. In the case of a tie vote, the names of the persons as to
which there has been a tie vote shall be placed on separate ballots; such
ballots shall be drawn by lot by the City Clerk, and the person(s) whose name
is (are) thus first drawn shall be the person(s) elected.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-94 SAME; CITY CLERK; RECORDS.
   In addition to the records referred to in §
6-5-92 of this subchapter, the City Clerk shall establish and maintain records
in the office of the City Clerk concerning the following:
   (A)   Names and addresses of each firefighter eligible to receive, and to
whom was delivered or mailed the notice of election, and accompanying
documents, referred to in §
6-5-90 of this subchapter;
   (B)   A copy of the notice and other documents so delivered or mailed, and a
certificate concerning the date on which delivery or mailing occurred;
   (C)   Nominations received in acceptable form and dates of receipt, and
nominations, if any, which were not timely received or were not in acceptable
form and, if not in acceptable form, the reason(s) for nonacceptance; and
   (D)   Names and addresses of the firefighters by whom ballots were deposited
with, or mailed by certified mail to, the City Clerk, or the City Clerk’s
deputy, the date and hour of such deposit, and the date of such mailing.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-95 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; CHAIRPERSON; VICE CHAIRPERSON; SECRETARY; TERM;
QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTION.
   There hereby are established the offices of chairperson, vice chairperson
and secretary of the Retirement Committee, whose term of office shall be a
period of one year beginning on the first Thursday of the month of December in
each year, commencing on that date in the year 1983. The chairperson and vice
chairperson shall be members of the Committee. All of such officers shall be
elected by a majority vote of all of the members of the Committee.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-96 SAME; VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in the office of chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary of
the Retirement Committee shall be filled by election in the same manner as
elections for a whole term of office.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-97 SAME; QUORUM.
   A quorum of the members of the Retirement Committee for the transaction of
any business (other than the election of a chairperson, vice chairperson or
secretary) shall be four members.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-98 SAME; CHAIRPERSON; VICE CHAIRPERSON; DUTIES.
   The chairperson of the Retirement Committee shall preside at meetings of the
Committee and shall have power to vote as a member of the Committee. The vice
chairperson shall perform the duties of the chairperson in the event of
disability or absence of the chairperson.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-99 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; RULES.
   The Retirement Committee shall adopt rules of procedure governing the
calling of its meetings (which shall provide for adequate notice) and the
conduct of its meetings, and such other rules and regulations, not inconsistent
with statute or any ordinance enacted by the City Council, as the Committee
shall determine to be necessary or proper for the orderly and otherwise proper
performance of its duties under statute and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§§ 6-5-100 – 6-5-103 RESERVED.
POLICE OFFICERS
§ 6-5-104 DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   For purposes of the sections contained in this subchapter, and of
interpretation of words and phrases in Neb. RS Chapter 16, Article 10,
subdivision (a), as now existing or hereafter amended, the words and phrases
defined hereafter shall have the meanings described to them in the following
sections.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-105 MEMBERS FROM BOTH THE POLICE FORCE.
   MEMBERS FROM BOTH THE POLICE FORCE. Police officers as defined in this
article.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-106 OFFICERS FROM THE POLICE FORCE.
   OFFICERS FROM THE POLICE FORCE. Police officers as defined in this article.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-107 PARTICIPATING POLICE OFFICER.
   PARTICIPATING POLICE OFFICER, POLICE OFFICER PARTICIPATING IN THE RETIREMENT
SYSTEM and PARTICIPANTS IN SUCH RETIREMENT SYSTEM . Includes every police
officer of the city’s Police Department.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-108 POLICE FORCE.
   POLICE FORCE. The city’s Police Department.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-109 POLICE OFFICER.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any member of the city’s Police Department who has authority
to make arrests (exclusive of citizen’s arrests) for violation of ordinances of
the city and other laws. The term includes part-time, as well as full-time and
temporary, as well as permanent, POLICE OFFICERS.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-110 POLICE OFFICERS’ RETIREMENT SYSTEM; ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There hereby is established, pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 16, Article
10, subdivision (a), as now existing or hereafter amended, a Police Officer’s
Retirement System (hereinafter usually referred to as “P.O.R.S.”), which:
      (1)   Shall comply with all of the mandatory provisions of such statute
as interpreted in this subchapter (as hereby adopted or subsequently
supplemented or otherwise amended); and
      (2)   With respect to authorizing but nonmandatory provisions of such
statute, shall have such other features as are prescribed in this subchapter
(as hereby adopted or subsequently supplemented or otherwise amended).
   (B)   Such Police Officer’s Retirement System shall become operative January
1, 1984, except that all requirements in the statute concerning acts to be done
with respect to the system prior to that date, for which provision is not
expressly made in this subchapter, shall be timely performed as provided in the
statute.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-111 POLICE OFFICERS’ RETIREMENT SYSTEM FUND; ESTABLISHED; INVESTMENT.
   There hereby is established, and the city shall keep and maintain, a Police
Officers’ Retirement System Fund for the purpose of investing payroll
deductions and city contributions to the P.O.R.S. The Retirement Committee
shall contract on behalf of the city for investment of the funds in such Fund
in accordance with the provisions in the applicable state statutes, as now
existing or hereafter amended.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-112 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; ESTABLISHED; OPERATION.
   There hereby is established a P.O.R.S. Retirement Committee of six members
to supervise the general operation of the P.O.R.S.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-113 SAME; SELECTION; TERMS; MEMBERS; QUALIFICATIONS; VACANCIES.
   The members of the Retirement Committee shall be selected and shall have
such terms of office, and vacancies shall be filled, as provided in the
applicable state statutes, as now existing or hereafter amended. The four
members of the Retirement Committee to be selected by the officers from the
police force shall be officers from the police force. One of the two members to
be designated by the City Council shall be the Mayor, or such other member of
the City Council as the City Council shall by resolution designate, and the
other member shall be the City Manager. The members of the Committee who are
not participants in the P.O.R.S. shall have a general knowledge of retirement
plans.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-114 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; MEMBERS SELECTED BY POLICE OFFICERS; ELECTION.
   The four members of the Retirement Committee to be selected by the officers
from the police force shall be elected by such officers at an election to be
conducted by the City Clerk in accordance with this article. The City Clerk
shall be the judge of the sufficiency of all acts performed in connection with
the election.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-115 SAME; BALLOT.
   Such election shall be accomplished by secret ballots on forms to be
supplied by the City Clerk upon request. Each ballot shall contain the names of
all candidates, listed in alphabetical order, who have been nominated as
provided in this article and shall bear no identification of the person who
marked the ballot. Such ballot shall be deposited by the person who marked the
ballot with the City Clerk or the City Clerk’s deputy, in a sealed envelope
before 4:00 p.m. on the date of the election, or by such person mailed to the
City Clerk by certified mail not less than three days prior to the date of the
election.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-116 SAME; TIME; NOTICE.
   The first such election shall be held on November 28, 1983, and subsequent
regular elections shall be held on the same date of the month (or, if such date
is a Saturday, Sunday, or city holiday on the first Monday following) at
subsequent four-year intervals. In the event there occurs a vacancy in the
membership of such members of the Committee, of which the City Clerk shall be
the judge, the City Clerk shall call a special election to fill the unexpired
term of the member(s) whose position(s) have (has) been vacated, which shall be
held not sooner than 15 days nor later than 45 days after the vacancy shall
have occurred, as determined by the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall cause
notice of each such election, whether regular or special, together with a copy
of §§
6-5-112 through
6-5-120 of this subchapter, inclusive, and such other written information
concerning the election as the City Clerk shall determine to be necessary or
proper, to be delivered to each police officer, or mailed to each such officer
in a postage prepaid envelope addressed to the last known residence of such
officer, not less than seven days prior to the date of the election.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-117 SAME; NOMINATIONS.
   Nominations of candidates to be elected by the police officers, or to fill
vacancies in such positions, may be made only as herein provided. A police
officer may nominate himself or herself. Other nominations may be made by three
or more police officers. All such nominations shall be made in writing on a
form to be supplied by the City Clerk, which form shall be signed by the police
officer or officers making the nomination and be deposited with the City Clerk,
or the City Clerk’s deputy, not less than two days prior to the date of the
election or, if mailed, mailed by certified mail to the City Clerk not less
than five days prior to the date of the election.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-118 SAME; BALLOTS; TABULATING.
   Within 24 hours after expiration of the time within which the ballots are to
be deposited with the City Clerk (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and city
holidays), the City Clerk, in the presence of the Police Chief, shall cause the
envelopes containing the ballots which shall have been timely deposited as
herein provided to be opened, and the votes for the candidate or candidates to
be counted and tabulated, and shall enter in the records of his or her office a
certificate signed by him or her, stating the time when, the place where, and
name of the person(s) in whose presence the envelopes were opened and the
ballots were counted and tabulated, the number of ballots timely deposited and
in acceptable form, and the total number of valid votes cast for the candidate
or each candidate for the position(s). The City Clerk shall also retain
ballots, if any, which were received but not counted, to which shall be
appended a statement, signed by the City Clerk, concerning the reason(s) for
noncounting.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-119 SAME; WHO ELECTED.
   Where four members are to be elected, the four candidates receiving the
highest number of votes shall be deemed to have been elected by the police
officers. Where more than one vacancy is to be filled, the candidates to fill
such vacancies, equal in number to the number of vacancies to be filled, who
receive the highest number of votes, shall be deemed to have been elected to
fill such vacancies. Where only one vacancy is to be filled, the candidate
receiving the highest number of votes to fill the vacancy shall be deemed to
have been elected. In the case of a tie vote, the names of the persons as to
which there has been a tie vote shall be placed on separate ballots; such
ballots shall be drawn by lot by the City Clerk; and the person(s) whose name
is (are) thus first drawn shall be the person(s) elected.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-120 SAME; CITY CLERK; RECORDS.
   In addition to the records referred to in §
6-5-118 of this subchapter, the City Clerk shall establish and maintain records
in the office of the City Clerk concerning the following:
   (A)   Names and addresses of each police officer eligible to receive, and to
whom was delivered or mailed the notice of election, and accompanying
documents, referred to in §
6-5-116 of this subchapter;
   (B)   A copy of the notice and other documents so delivered or mailed, and a
certificate concerning the date on which delivery or mailing occurred;
   (C)   Nominations received in acceptable form and dates of receipt, and
nominations, if any, which were not timely received or were not in acceptable
form and, if not in acceptable form, the reason(s) for nonacceptance; and
   (D)   Names and addresses of the police officers by whom ballots were
deposited with, or mailed by certified mail to, the City Clerk, or the City
Clerk’s deputy, the date and hour of such deposit and the date of such mailing.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-121 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; CHAIRPERSON; VICE CHAIRPERSON; SECRETARY; TERM;
QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTION.
   There hereby are established the offices of chairperson, vice chairperson
and secretary of the Retirement Committee, whose term of office shall be a
period of one year beginning on the first Thursday of the month of December in
each year, commencing on that date in the year 1983. The chairperson and vice
chairperson shall be members of the Committee. All of such officers shall be
elected by a majority vote of all of the members of the Committee.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-122 SAME; VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in the office of chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary of
the Retirement Committee shall be filled by election in the same manner as
elections for a whole term of office.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-123 SAME; QUORUM.
   A quorum of the members of the Retirement Committee for the transaction of
any business (other than the election of a chairperson, vice chairperson or
secretary) shall be four members.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-124 SAME; CHAIRPERSON; VICE CHAIRPERSON; DUTIES.
   The chairperson of the Retirement Committee shall preside at meetings of the
Committee, and shall have power to vote as a member of the Committee. The vice
chairperson shall perform the duties of the chairperson in the event of
disability or absence of the chairperson.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
§ 6-5-125 RETIREMENT COMMITTEE; RULES.
   The Retirement Committee shall adopt rules of procedure governing the
calling of its meetings (which shall provide for adequate notice) and the
conduct of its meetings, and such other rules and regulations, not inconsistent
with statute or any ordinance enacted by the City Council, as the Committee
shall determine to be necessary or proper for the orderly and otherwise proper
performance of its duties under statute and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 2839, passed - -1983)
ARTICLE 6: FEES
Section
Fees Relating to Animals
   
6-6-1   Animals
Permits Relating to Buildings and Construction
   
6-6-2   Building permit
   
6-6-3   Removal of building or structure
   
6-6-4   Repealed
   
6-6-5   Sewer tap
   
6-6-6   Sewer connection; extension
   
6-6-7   Water connection
   
6-6-7.1   Special provisions for sewer and water connections
   
6-6-8   Electrical inspection
   
6-6-9   Plumbing inspection
   
6-6-9.1   Septic tank and drain field permit
   
6-6-10   Other permits related to building
   
6-6-10.1   Plan review for compliance with Fire Prevention Code
   
6-6-10.2   Fire inspections for specific establishments
   
6-6-10.3   Permit for above ground storage of flammable or combustible liquids
   
6-6-10.4   Building contractor registration
Cemeteries
   
6-6-11   Burial spaces; mausoleum spaces and columbarium; Fairview Cemetery
   
6-6-12   Service charges; Fairview Cemetery
Recreation Fees
   
6-6-13   Campground
   
6-6-14   Repealed
   
6-6-15   Swimming pools; admissions
   
6-6-15.1   Park user fees
Licenses and Occupation Taxes
   
6-6-16   Plumbing licenses
   
6-6-17   Other licenses
   
6-6-18   Occupation taxes
Sewer Use Fees
   
6-6-19   Minimum charge
   
6-6-20   Private water supply
   
6-6-21   Mobile tanks
   
6-6-22   Surcharge
Solid Waste Collection
   
6-6-23   Residential
   
6-6-24   Institutional; business; commercial; industrial
   
6-6-25   Trees, brush, and yard waste; disposition at city disposal sites
   
6-6-26   Recyclable materials for non-residential customers and non-recyclable
equipment
   
6-6-27   Special collections and additional containers
Water Service
   
6-6-28   Water service
Land Use
   
6-6-29   Land use permits
Parking
   
6-6-30   Parking permits and fees
Miscellaneous Fees
   
6-6-31   Police escort fees
   
6-6-31.1   Cost recovery
   
6-6-32   Liquidated damages for excessive police alarms
   
6-6-33   Police administrative tow fees
   
6-6-33.1   Towing and storage of motor vehicles
   
6-6-33.2   Miscellaneous; police services
   
6-6-34   Labor of city employees; use of city equipment
   
6-6-35   Use of right-of-way of sidewalks, streets for neighborhood block
party, streets for carnivals, bazaars, or the sale of merchandise
   
6-6-36   Deposit for city services
FEES RELATING TO ANIMALS
§ 6-6-1 ANIMALS.
   The following fees are hereby imposed for matters relating to animals:
License fee for each mini-pig                                             $5
License tax for each neutered dog                                         $5
License tax for each non-neutered dog                                     $10
Replacement for lost animal license tag                                   $1
For an animal that is owned by an individual 62 years of age or older the
following fees are applicable:
   License fee for each mini-pig                                       $4
   License tax for each neutered dog                                   $4
   License tax for each non-neutered dog                               $10
   Replacement for lost animal license tag                             $1
 
(Ord. 3567, passed - -1997)
PERMITS RELATING TO BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 6-6-2 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Fees. The fees for a permit for the construction or alteration of a
building or structure, and for an incidental certificate of occupancy shall be
as follows:
 
New Construction
           Cost         Fee
Commercial First $1,000 $80
           Excess       $5 per $1,000 or part thereof
All other  First $1,000 $30
           Excess       $50 per $1,000 or part thereof
 
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Any term used in this section which is defined in
Chapter 25, Article 2 of this code shall, for the purpose of this section, bear
the meaning assigned to it in
Chapter 25, Article 2 of this code.
      (2)   As used in this section, the following terms have the following
meaning.
         COMMERCIAL. Any construction for a use other than a single- or two-
family dwelling, or a use accessory to a single- or two-family dwelling.
         COST. The estimated cost of construction determined as provided
elsewhere in this section.
         EXCESS. The estimated cost in excess of $1,000.
   (C)   Determination of cost. For the purposes of this section, the estimated
cost of construction shall be calculated as follows.
      (1)   For commercial construction: $150 per square foot of improvement.
      (2)   For one- and two-family dwellings: $150 per square foot of
improvement.
      (3)   For detached garages: $15 per square foot of improvement.
      (4)   For fences, roof repair or replacement, carports, and sheds of a
size less than 200 square feet, and for the removal of a building or structure,
the reasonable, good faith estimate of the applicant for the permit.
(Ord. 3894, passed - -2006; Ord. 4035, passed - -2010)
§ 6-6-3 REMOVAL OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   The fee for a permit for the removal of a building or structure from one lot
to another or to a new location on the same lot shall be $30 for the first
$1,000, or part thereof, and $5 per each additional $1,000, or part thereof, of
the estimated cost of moving.
(Ord. 3894, passed - -2006)
§ 6-6-4 REPEALED.
§ 6-6-5 SEWER TAP.
   (A)   Before a sewer tap permit as provided for in this article shall be
issued, the owner of the premises from which the connection is to be made shall
pay to the City Clerk for each connection a tap fee of $10 and a sewer plant
investment fee based on the water meter size as follows.
 
Water Meter Size Investment Fee
3/4"             $200
1"               $234
1-1/2"           $266
2"               $306
3"               $434
4"               $560
 
   (B)    If the water meter size to a premises is increased, then the owner of
the premises shall, prior to the meter change, pay to the City Clerk an
investment fee equal to the difference in the investment fee assigned to the
new meter size and the investment fee assigned to the previously existing meter
size. A reduction in water meter size shall not require an investment fee nor
shall there be any refund of all or any part of an investment fee previously
paid for a larger meter.
   (C)   If the premises abut a street or alley in which the sewer is located;
the premises have not previously been included within a district created for
the purpose of construction of the sewer; no part of the cost of construction
of the sewer has been paid by the owner or previous owner(s) of the premises
(the cost of construction shall not include the furnishing of a right-of-way or
payment of general taxes or sewer charges); and the cost, or a part of the
cost, has been paid by the city; then no permit shall be issued until there is
paid a fee of $8 per running foot of the premises abutting the street or alley
in which the sewer is located. This fee shall be in addition to the connection
fees set out above. Provided, if the sewer was constructed prior to January 1,
1962, then the amount of the additional fee shall not exceed $75. All amounts
paid pursuant to this section shall be placed in the Sewer Fund of the city and
shall not be refundable.
(Ord. 4074, passed - -2012)
§ 6-6-6 SEWER CONNECTION; EXTENSION.
   Before a permit to make a connection or extension as provided in this
article shall be issued for a premises outside the city, the applicant shall
pay to the City Clerk a tap fee of $20 and a sewer plant investment fee of
double the amount set forth in §
6-6-5 of this subchapter, depending on the size of the water meter for the
premises. These fees shall be paid to the City Clerk for each dwelling,
business, commercial, industrial, or agricultural unit that has been or is
proposed to be connected, except that no fee shall be charged for units for
which a fee for connection has already been paid.
(Ord. 4068, passed - -2012)
§ 6-6-7 WATER CONNECTION.
   (A)   Before a permit to connect to a water main of the city shall be
issued, all applicable fees listed below shall be paid.
   (B)   All fees shall be placed in the Water Fund of the city and shall not
be subject to refund.
      (1)   A basic connection fee of $32;
      (2)   The applicable fee provided for in the resolution adopted pursuant
to this article; and
      (3)   If the premises to be connected are outside the city and the line
to be connected is:
         (a)   A main, a fee of $150 for each dwelling, business, commercial,
industrial, or agricultural unit that will be served by the line; or
         (b)   A service line, a fee of $150, unless the fee described in
division (B)(3)(a) above has previously been paid for the premises.
(Ord. 3853, passed - -2005)
§ 6-6-7.1 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SEWER AND WATER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section apply where the premises for which an
application for water and/or sewer service is made:
      (1)   Abuts a street, alley, or highway or road in which the sewer or
water main is located, or otherwise abuts or is adjacent to the sewer or water
main;
      (2)   Has not previously been included within a district created for the
purpose of construction of the sewer or water main;
      (3)   No part of the cost of construction of the sewer or water main has
been paid by the owner or previous owner(s) of the premises (the cost of
construction shall not include the furnishing of a right-of-way or payment of
general taxes or sewer or water charges); and
      (4)   The cost, or a part of the cost, has been paid by the city.
   (B)   If division (A) above is applicable, then no permit shall be issued
until the payment of a fee calculated as follows.
      (1)   A qualified engineer designated by the city shall determine the
cost of constructing the sewer or water main in question as of the date the
determination is made, that is, at the present time.
      (2)   The engineer who determined the cost as described above shall, in
the same manner as is done in determining the extent of the special benefit
conferred by the original construction of a public improvement, make an
equitable apportionment of the cost of the sewer or water main among the
properties benefitted by the sewer or water main.
      (3)   The fee payable by the applicant shall be the amount determined in
the paragraphs immediately above. In all cases where the city borrowed funds to
finance the construction of the sewer or water main, the fee shall be increased
by a sum equal to interest on the amount determined in the paragraph
immediately above at the rate paid by the city for any sum borrowed to finance
the construction, and calculated for the period of time between the borrowing
of the funds and the time the debt was paid, or if the debt has not been paid,
from the date of the borrowing of the funds to the date of the application for
service.
   (C)   The City Manager may allow the applicant to pay the fee described in
this section in ten annual installments. As a condition to such allowance, the
City Manager shall require such security as the City Manager deems adequate. If
payments are made in installments, the payments shall include interest at a
rate specified by the City Manager. The first such installment shall be paid
before the connection is made. The day and month the first payment is made is
called the anniversary date. The second installment shall be due on the
anniversary date of the next year after the payment of the first installment,
and each subsequent installment shall be due on the anniversary date of each
subsequent year until the balance, with interest, is paid in full. An
installment is delinquent if not paid when due. If an installment becomes
delinquent, it shall bear interest at the rate specified in Neb. RS 45-104.01,
as such rate may be adjusted from time to time by the Legislature, until the
same is paid. Should there be three or more of said installments delinquent,
the City Manager may declare all future installments immediately due and
payable, and the city may proceed to collect in any lawful manner all sums and
interest which due to it.
   (D)   The fee described in division (A) above shall be in addition to the
applicable connection fees for water and sewer service as described elsewhere
in this chapter.
   (E)   In the event that a person has paid special assessments to reimburse
the city for the cost of construction of such sewer or water main, the city
shall, upon collection of the entire fee described in division (B) above, pay
to such person a sum equal to the difference between the amount of such
assessments paid by such person and the amount such person would have paid if
the premises for which application for service is made had been originally a
part of the district created for the purpose of construction of the sewer or
water main. The total amount paid under this division (E) shall in no event
exceed the amount of the fee collected by the city pursuant to division (B)
above. For the purpose of this division (E), the term “special assessments”
shall include interest.
(Ord 3853, passed - -2005)
§ 6-6-8 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The following fees are hereby imposed for inspections relating
to electrical construction of residential property:
         (a)   For each receptacle outlet for power, each outlet for heating,
and each lighting fixture to be installed: $0.20;
         (b)   For each electrical service entrance equipment assembly to be
installed: $2;
         (c)   For each electric motor of one-half horsepower rating or more to
be installed: $2;
         (d)   For each totally electric heating appliance and each air-
conditioning appliance (individual or combined with heating) to be installed:
$2;
         (e)   For each electric sign assembly to be installed: $2; provided,
the minimum fee for an application shall be $3; provided, further, no permit
fee shall be required in respect of any building, structure, or work done by
any governmental agency or subdivision;
         (f)   For reinspections required as a result of a correction order:
$10; and
         (g)   For renewal of an electrical permit: $5.
      (2)   In addition to the fees described in this division (A), there shall
be imposed a $30 fee for each inspection. All fees described in this division
(A)(2) shall be paid in advance.
   (B)   (1)   The following fees are hereby imposed for inspections relating
to electrical inspection of commercial property:
Existing service           $30 plus $2.75 per branch circuit
Temporary service fees     Same as new service and circuits
Fire alarm                 $30 plus $2.75 per zone
Low voltage control        $30 plus $2.75 per zone
New service
   1-100A               $12.50 plus $2.75 per branch circuit
   101-200A             $17.50 plus $2.75 per branch circuit
   201-300A             $30 plus $2.75 per branch circuit
   301-400A             $42.50 + $2.75 per branch circuit
   401-500A             $55 + $2.75 per branch circuit
   501-600A             $67.50 + $2.75 per branch circuit
   601-700A             $80 + $2.75 per branch circuit
   701-800A             $92.50 + $2.75 per branch circuit
   801-900A             $105 + $2.75 per branch circuit
   901-1000A            $117.50 + $2.75 per branch circuit
   If over 1000A
      1st 1000A      $117.50
      Each additional$12.50 + $2.75 per branch circuit
 
      (2)   In addition to the fees described in this division (B), there shall
be imposed an administration fee of 15% of the total fee for each inspection.
All fees described in this division (B) shall be paid in advance.
(Ord. 3894, passed - -2006)
§ 6-6-9 PLUMBING INSPECTION.
   The following fees are hereby imposed for inspections relating to plumbing
construction: water service line, for inspection of each water piping system,
fixture, water closet, lavatory, sink, bathtub, slop sink, urinal, water
heater, drinking fountain, dishwasher, automatic washer, supply line and drain,
coffee urn, lawn sprinkler system, sump pump, water softener, steam boiler, hot
water boiler, soda fountain, grease trap, garage wash trap, industrial trap,
chemical trap, gas appliance, gas service line, or gas piping system, a fee in
the amount of $1.50. In addition to the fees described in this section, there
shall be imposed a $30 fee for each inspection. All fees described in this
section shall be paid in advance.
(Ord. 3894, passed - -2006)
§ 6-6-9.1 SEPTIC TANK AND DRAIN FIELD PERMIT.
   (A)   The fees for a permit for the construction of a septic and drain field
shall be as follows:
      (1)   First $1,000 of the estimated cost of the sanitary facilities: $30;
      (2)   Each $1,000 of the estimated cost of the sanitary facilities in
excess of $1,000: $5; and
      (3)   Each inspection: $4.
   (B)   The estimated cost of construction will be determined by the city or
by an independent contractor with whom the city has contracted to perform those
functions.
§ 6-6-10 OTHER PERMITS RELATED TO BUILDING.
   The following fees are hereby imposed for other permits relating to
building:
Backflow device                                                           $30
Certificate of occupancy, permanent or temporary, otherwise than
incidental to a permit for which provision is made in variation of        $30
application
Demolition permit                                                         $30
Failure to obtain proper permit                                           $50
Occupancy permit for new mobile home                                      $150
Occupancy permit for used mobile home                                     $100
Permit for installation of private water well                             $30
Police or fire system connection fee                                      $100
Police or fire alarm system, annual monitoring fee, system with automatic $50
dialer
Police or fire alarm system, annual monitoring fee, system without        $90
automatic dialer
Reinspection fee: third trip to reinspect                                 $50
Renewal of building permit                                                $5
Variation of application of any provision of the building code; one-half   
the original building fee or $20 whichever is greater
 
§ 6-6-10.1 PLAN REVIEW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   Plan review fee for compliance with Fire Prevention Code shall be as
follows:
 
Estimated Construction Cost Fee
$1 - $4,999 or less    $10
$5,000 - or more       $10 for the first $5,000 plus $5 each additional $5,000
                       or fraction thereof
 
   (B)   Plan review fee for fire protection system will be $60.
   (C)   This fee will include inspections by the fire official for compliance
with the Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 4333, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 6-6-10.2 FIRE INSPECTIONS FOR SPECIFIC ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Fees for inspection by the fire official pursuant to regulations or
directives of the appropriate state licensing agency shall be as follows:
 
Child care centers
Child care centers
   0 - 8                                         $40
   9 - 12                                        $50
   13 or more                                    $60
Hospitals, nursing homes, and other care facilities
   50 beds or less                               $100
   51 to 100 beds                                $150
   101 or more beds                              $200
Liquor establishments
   Consumption                                   $75
   Non-consumption establishments                $50
Retail or wholesale firework location               $50
 
   (B)   The fee for any inspection call back to any commercial establishment,
child care center, hospital, nursing home and other care facility for fire code
violations shall be $60 beginning on the third inspection and on each
inspection thereafter until the code violations are corrected.
(Ord. 4333, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 6-6-10.3 PERMIT FOR ABOVE GROUND STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE OR COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS.
   The fee to apply for a permit for above ground storage of flammable or
combustible liquids, liquified petroleum gases, or anhydrous ammonia shall be
the sum of $50.
(Ord. 3614, passed - -1999)
§ 6-6-10.4 BUILDING CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION.
   The fee for building contractor registration shall be $50 for the initial
registration and $25 to renew such registration.
(Ord. 3880, passed - -2005)
CEMETERIES
§ 6-6-11 BURIAL SPACES; FAIRVIEW CEMETERY.
   Effective October 21, 2009, the purchase price of burial spaces in Fairview
Cemetery shall be as follows.
Addition Section Lot Space Price
Addition          Section            Lot                Space             Price
Original cemetery All                All                All               $600
First             All                All                All               $600
Second            All, except B and  All                All               $600
                  C
Second            B                  All                Infant            $100
Second            B                  All                Adult             $600
Third             Replat of A        All                All               $600
Replat of Third   B                  All                All               $600
Third             C                  All                Infant            $100
Replat of Third   C                  All                Infant            $100
Replat of Third   Replat No. 1 of D  All                All               $600
                  Replat No. 2 of E  568 to 738,
Replat of Third   and F, and part of including (whole   All               $600
                  D                  spaces only)
                  Replat No. 2 of E  568 to 738,
Replat of Third   and F, and part of including (half    Infant, cremation $350
                  D                  spaces only)
Third             Replat of G        1 to 51, including A, B, C, and D    $600
Third             Replat No. 2 of G  1-A to 1-D,        All               $600
                                     including
                                     4 to 29, including
Third             Replat of G        and 37 to 49,      E, F, G, and H    $600
                                     including
Alleyways         All                All                                  $600
Mausoleum
   Single      To be determined by Cemetery Supervisor Board upon space
                  required
   Double      To be determined by Cemetery Supervisor Board upon space
                  required
Columbarium
   Single      Niche* (price of cremation includes inscription)        $600
   Double      Niche*(price of cremation includes inscription)         $900
 
(Ord. 3801, passed - -2004; Ord. 4005, passed - -2009; Ord. 4215, passed 7-3-
2017; Ord. 4250, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 6-6-12 SERVICE CHARGES; FAIRVIEW CEMETERY.
   The following charges shall be made for services rendered by the city in
Fairview Cemetery:
Additional right of interment (cremains only on existing graves)      $300
Burial vaults exemptions fee pursuant to §                           $750
5-1-13 of this code
Cremation burial                                                      $250
Disinterment, adult                                                   $1,000
Disinterment, cremation                                               $550
Disinterment, infant                                                  $800
Entombment charges
   Columbarium: opening and closing                                $250
   Mausoleum: opening and closing                                  $550
   Saturday (a.m. only opening and closings, additional charge)    $500
   Tent set-up                                                     $200
Foundation fee                                                        $150
Grave opening and closing, adult                                      $550
Grave opening and closing, infant (limited to rough box not to exceed $150
50" in length)
Monument layout fee                                                   $100
Perpetual care                                                        $200
Recorded deed (in addition to fees of Register of Deeds)              $50
Saturday (a.m. only opening and closings, additional charge)          $500
Second single marker (without burial)                                 $300
Second double marker (without burial)                                 $600
 
(Ord 3801, passed - -2004; Ord. 4005, passed - -2009; Ord. 4215, passed 7-3-
2017; Ord. 4250, passed 10-21-2019)
RECREATION FEES
§ 6-6-13 CAMPGROUND.
   Users of Riverside Park campground shall pay fees to the city daily for use
of facilities at such campground as follows:
 
Campsite
Full hookup             $35
Electric and water only $25
Dry camp                $12
Use of dump station     $7
 
(Ord. 3757, passed - -2003; Ord. 4049, passed - -2011; Ord. 4188, passed - -
2016; Ord. 4331, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 6-6-14 REPEALED.
§ 6-6-15 SWIMMING POOLS; ADMISSIONS.
   The charges for admissions to swimming pools of the city shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Westmoor Pool single admission.
 
Age 5 and under                               $1
Age 6 to 15, inclusive                        $3.50
Age 16 to 61, inclusive                       $4
Over age 61                                   $1.50
Tube rental                                   $2
Tube rental for holders of annual family pass $1
 
   (B)   Season tickets.
 
Individual $75
Family     $125
 
      (1)   A maximum of two adults and four children may be admitted on a
family pass. The names of the persons entitled to be admitted shall be written
on the pass. Additional names may be added to the pass for the payment of a fee
in the amount of $10 per person.
      (2)   Punch cards.
         (a)   Forty punches: $40.
         (b)   Punch cards will be punched once for each $1 or portion thereof
to be applied to an admission fee. A punch card is valid until all punches are
used but not longer than two years from the date of purchase. Its use is not
restricted to the purchaser’s family members.
      (3)   The prices for admission are payable at the time of entry into the
pool. No admission price will be refunded or prorated because of inclement
weather or mechanical error after admission has been paid.
   (C)   Special night activities (as designated by the Park Supervisor).
Regular pool admission shall be charged.
   (D)   Private party pool rental fees (available after regular pool hours).
 
Westmoor Pool
Small group rate, not to exceed 50 people $125 per hour
Large group rate, 51 - 150 people         $200 per hour
Corporate rental rate, 15 - 300 people    $300 per hour
 
      (1)   These prices include the use of tubes and slides. Concessions will
be made available upon request.
      (2)   The City Council by resolution may authorize a promotional discount
on the charge for annual family season tickets as provided in this article. No
refund shall be made of any admission charge except in the case of a mistake on
the part of the officer or employee who issued a ticket or punched a card.
(Ord. 3964, passed - -2008; Ord. 4124, passed - -2014; Ord. 4162, passed - -
2015; Ord. 4229, passed 5-21- 2018; Ord. 4331, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 6-6-15.1 PARK USER FEES.
   (A)   A charge of $50 per field per day shall be made for use of the city’s
fields for organized baseball or softball events in the city parks. For this
fee, the city shall allow the use of the field and shall prepare the field and
chalk the baselines once each day. If additional field preparation or chalking
is requested, an additional charge of $50 shall be made.
   (B)   Any individual or organization desiring to reserve a park or shelter
shall pay the following fees and deposit:
Park Shelter/Facility Deposit Fee Amenities Key
Park        Shelter/       Deposit Fee  Amenities     Key
            Facility
Centennial  Gazebo         $50     $50  E
Frank       Cosmos         $25     $25  E, W, G, B, L
            (Rectangle)
           Octagon        $25     $25  E, L
Lacy        Lions (East)   $25     $25  W
           Kiwanis (West) $25     $25  E, W, B, L    B = Buffet table
Landers     Northeast      $25     $25  W             E = Electricity
           Southwest      $25     $25  W             G = Grill
Pioneer     Lions (Large)  $25     $25  E, G, B, L    L = Lights
           Small          $25     $25  E, G, L       W = Water
18th Street Stage          $200    $100 E, L          All parks open:
Plaza                                                 6:00 a.m. – 11:00 p.m.
           Plaza          $200    $100 E, L
Northwood   Middle         $25     $25  G
Riverside   Elks           $25     $25  G
           Kiwanis        $25     $25
Veteran’s West           $25     $25  G
 
   (C)   A special event permit shall require the following deposits and fees:
      (1)   Event liability insurance in the amounts of:
         (a)   One million dollars medical liability;
         (b)   Two million dollars accidents;
         (c)   Two hundred thousand dollars property damage; and
         (d)   Name the city as additional insured on all policies.
      (2)   Damage deposit of $200; the deposit is dependent upon:
         (a)   Size, nature, and location of event;
         (b)   Appropriate use of facility;
         (c)   Timing in relation to other events;
         (d)   Organization’s ability to provide support deemed necessary by
Parks and Recreation Department to conduct the event;
         (e)   Permittees at Lacy Park will be responsible for making
arrangements to have the septic system pumped during and after their special
event if in use. If the septic is not pumped, any deposit amounts will go
towards taking care of that matter; and
         (f)   Damage deposits will be returned if facilities are left in the
condition they were found in.
      (3)   For-profit events and sports tournaments will be charged a rental
fee of $275 per day for use of city property in addition to a damage deposit.
      (4)   Any individual desiring to reserve a park shelter for a wedding
shall pay the following fees and deposit:
 
Park              Shelter/Facility Deposit Fee
Centennial        Gazebo           $200    $100
18th Street Plaza Stage            $200    $100
 
         (a)   Wedding rentals are divided into two, six-hour time slots:
            1.   Morning: 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
            2.   Evening: 3:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
         (b)   Damage deposits will be returned if facilities are left in the
condition they were found in.
(Ord. 3739, passed - -2002; Ord. 4055, passed - -2011; Ord. 4204, passed - -
2017; Ord. 4331, passed 5-6-2024)
LICENSES AND OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 6-6-16 PLUMBING LICENSES.
   The following fees are hereby imposed for licenses relating to plumbing.
 
Journeyman plumber, sheetmetal for heating worker, steam fitter, gas
fitter, oil fitter, or water fitter
   License                                                        $15
   Renewal license fee                                            $15
Provisional master plumber
   License fee                                                    $25
   Renewal license fee                                            $25
 
§ 6-6-17 OTHER LICENSES.
   The following fees are hereby imposed for licenses required by this code.
Application fee, taxi cab                                $25
Arborist permit                                          $10
Bicycle registration                                     $5
Bingo permit                                             $10
Electric personal assistive mobility device registration $5
New address permit                                       $25
Pawnbrokers permit                                       $50
Peddling permit
   Per week                                           $20
   Per year                                           $75
Public dances
   Per day                                            $5
   Six-month license                                  $50
   One-year license                                   $100
 
(Ord. 2597, passed - -1998; Ord. 3968, passed - -2008; Ord. 4048, passed - -
2011; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013)
§ 6-6-18 OCCUPATION TAXES.
   The occupation tax referred to elsewhere in this municipal code shall be
upon each of the following occupations and businesses (except as provided in
such section) in amounts, respectively, as follows:
   A
Alcohol, alcoholic liquors; per year:                                                 
   Alcoholic liquor (except beer) wholesaler                                      $1,000
   Beer wholesaler                                                                $250
      A - retailer of beer only, for consumption on- premises                  $200
      B - retailer of beer only, for consumption off- premises (sale in origina$200
packages only)
      C - retailer of alcoholic liquors for consumption on-premises and off-pre$600s
(sale in original packages only), except non-profit corporation which is a club
      C - retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer for consumption on the $150
premises only, non-profit corporation which is a club
      D - retailer of alcoholic liquors, including beer, for consumption off-  $400
premises (sale in original packages only)
      I - retailer of alcoholic liquors, for consumption on-premises only      $500
      Special designated license, except for special designated license issued $50 per day
holder of a catering license
   Catering licensee                                                              $200
   Manufacture of alcohol and spirits                                             $1,000
   Manufacture of beer                                                            $500
   Manufacture of wine                                                            $500
   Non-beverage user                                                               
      Class 1                                                                  $5
      Class 2                                                                  $25
      Class 3                                                                  $50
      Class 4                                                                  $100
      Class 5                                                                  $250
   B
Billboard advertising, bill posting, thrust upon public view or attention from
billboards located upon private property, or elsewhere, for pay or hire, by persons, $25
firms, or corporations, per year
   D
Dog kennels                                                                           
   Kennel authorized to keep less than five dogs, per year                        $25
   Kennel authorized to keep five dogs or more, per year                          $50
   F
Fire insurance company or association, per year                                      $5
   H
Hawkers and peddlers                                                                  
   Per week                                                                       $5
   Per year                                                                       $25
Hotel accommodations                                                                 4% of gross receipts as defined in §
                                                                                     11-2-6 of this code
   P
Pawnbrokers, per year                                                                $100
Petroleum products, refineries of, per year                                          $250
Pet shop, per year                                                                   $50
   R
                                                                                     2% of all general retail business
                                                                                     transactions which the state is
                                                                                     authorized to impose a tax as allowed
                                                                                     by the Nebraska Local Option Revenue
                                                                                     Act, being Neb. RS 77-27,142 et seq.
                                                                                     and which are subject to sales and use
Retail business occupation tax                                                       tax within an agreed enhanced
                                                                                     employment area, except any
                                                                                     transaction which action which is
                                                                                     subject to tax under Neb. RS 53-160,
                                                                                     66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-4,145,
                                                                                     66-4,146, 77-2602 or 77-4009 or which
                                                                                     is exempt from tax under Neb. RS 77-
                                                                                     2704.24
 
(Ord 3835, passed - -2005; Ord. 3991, passed - -2009; Ord. 4115, passed - -
2013; Ord. 4154, passed - - 2015; Ord. 4210, passed 5-15-2017; Ord. 4327,
passed 4-15-2024)
SEWER USE FEES
§ 6-6-19 MINIMUM CHARGE.
   (A)   Each user shall pay a monthly sewer service charge of $21.13. Each
user shall pay an additional charge of$2.87 per each 1,000 gallons for all
gallons of water consumed by the user during the applicable monthly billing
period as determined in
Chapter 18. Provided, however, wholesale users shall pay 92.5% of the charges
provided in this division (A).
   (B)   The rates and fees provided for in this section shall be effective
with respect to all connections, installations and billings after October 1,
2024.
(Ord. 4010, passed - -2009; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013; Ord. 4195, passed - -
2016; Ord. 4214, passed 7-3- 2017; Ord. 4234, passed 9-17-2018; Ord. 4247,
passed 9-16-2019; Ord. 4263, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 4288, passed 9-27-2022;
Ord. 4301, passed 2-21-2023; Ord. 4310, passed 9-25-2023; Ord. 4337, passed 9-
3-2024)
§ 6-6-20 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   With respect to users having a private water supply which is
discharged into the city’s sanitary sewer system, sewer service charges shall
be calculated as follows:
      (1)   Commercial and industrial users shall meter their water supply at
their expense and their sanitary sewer use charge shall be based on the
quantity of water consumed on the premises from all sources.
      (2)   Single-family residential users within the city limits shall pay
$32.32 per monthly period.
      (3)   Single-family residential users outside the city limits shall pay
$54.12 per monthly period.
      (4)   Multi-family residential users shall pay $46.54 per dwelling unit
per monthly period.
   (B)   The rates and fees provided for in this section shall be effective
with respect to all connections, installations and billings after October 1,
2024.
(Ord. 4010, passed - -2009; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013; Ord. 4201, passed - -
2016; Ord. 4214, passed 7-3- 2017; Ord. 4234, passed 9-17-2018; Ord. 4247,
passed 9-16-2019; Ord. 4263, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 4288, passed 9-27-2022;
Ord. 4301, passed 2-21-2023; Ord. 4310, passed 9-25-2023; Ord. 4337, passed 9-
3-2024)
§ 6-6-21 MOBILE TANKS.
   Users who discharge from mobile tanks into the city’s sanitary sewer system
at a point provided for that purpose at the wastewater treatment plant shall be
charged the following fees.
   (A)   Where the discharge is of normal domestic sewage as defined in this
chapter, and the user discharges less than 100 gallons during a calendar month,
there shall be no charge.
   (B)   Where the discharge is of normal domestic sewage and the user
discharges 100 gallons or more during a calendar month, the charge shall be $5
for the first 100 gallons and $2 for each 100 gallons or fraction thereof
thereafter.
   (C)   Where the discharge is not of normal domestic sewage, the charge shall
be $5 for each 100 gallons or fraction thereof.
(Ord. 4214, passed 7-3-2017; Ord. 4234, passed 9-17-2018; Ord. 4247, passed 9-
16-2019)
§ 6-6-22 SURCHARGE.
   (A)   There will be a $2.75 per billing cycle surcharge fee to all residents
of the city for stormwater regulatory requirements and the use, upkeep and
maintenance of the city’s stormwater collection system.
   (B)   Users who contribute wastewater the strength of which is greater than
normal domestic sewage shall, in addition to the basic sewer charge, pay a
surcharge equal to$0.65 per pound for the first 10,000 pounds of excess B.O.D.
per billing cycle (or up to the limit of their contract with the city), and a
surcharge of $1.21 for all additional excess B.O.D. per billing cycle. A
contribution of more than 12,000 pounds of excess B.O.D. per billing cycle, in
the absence of a contract, shall subject the user to the sanctions and
penalties provided in this chapter. Users with a contract who exceed the limits
of their contract may also be subject to the sanctions and penalties provided
in this chapter.
   (C)   Users who contribute wastewater the strength of which is greater than
normal domestic sewage shall, in addition to the basic sewer charge, pay a
surcharge equal to $0.063 per pound of excess suspended solids per billing
cycle.
   (D)   The expression “per billing cycle” as used in this section means the
period for which the sewer service charge is payable.
   (E)   The rates and fees provided in this section shall be effective with
respect to connections, installations and billings after October 1, 2024.
(Ord. 4063, passed - -2011; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013; Ord. 4140, passed - -
2014; Ord. 4185, passed - - 2016; Ord. 4195, passed - -2016; Ord. 4214, passed
7-3-2017; Ord. 4234, passed 9-17-2018; Ord. 4247, passed 9-16-2019; Ord. 4263,
passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 4288, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 4301, passed 2-21-2023;
Ord. 4310, passed 9-25-2023; Ord. 4337, passed 9-3-2024)
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
§ 6-6-23 RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   The minimum monthly charges for collection and disposal service to
residential units for solid waste and the single stream recycling program all
of which is contained in approved containers shall be as follows, effective for
all billings made on and after October 1, 2024:
      (1)   One-family unit (including mobile homes with an individual water or
sewer connection): $26.14;
      (2)   One-family two-container unit (including mobile homes with an
individual water or sewer connection): $59.79;
      (3)   The minimum requirement for one-family two-container units is 12
months from the date of request for two-container service; and
      (4)   Multi-family structures (including mobile home parks with a single
water or sewer connection):
Monthly Rate Per Unit
Monthly Rate Per Unit
2 to 4 units     $26.14
5 to 6 units     $23.49
7 to 10 units    $22.19
11 to 16 units   $20.89
17 to 39 units   $19.55
40 to 59 units   $18.24
60 or more units $16.99
 
   (B)   Hotels, motels, and rooming houses shall be considered as commercial
establishments and shall pay charges based on the charges provided for
institutional business, commercial, and industrial establishments as provided
in this chapter. The charges for quantities or services which exceed those
covered by the minimum charge shall be an amount equal to the reasonable cost
of the service as determined by the City Manager or the designee of the City
Manager.
   (C)   The rates and fees provided in this section shall be effective with
respect to usage for which billings are made after October 1, 2024.
(Ord. 4063, passed - -2011; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013; Ord. 4140, passed - -
2014; Ord. 4174, passed - - 2016; Ord. 4214, passed 7-3-2017; Ord. 4234, passed
9-17-2018; Ord. 4247, passed 9-16-2019; Ord. 4254, passed 9-8-2020; Ord. 4263,
passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 4288, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 4301, passed 2-21-2023;
Ord. 4310, passed 9-25-2023; Ord. 4337, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 6-6-24 INSTITUTIONAL; BUSINESS; COMMERCIAL; INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)    The monthly charges for collection and disposal of solid waste of
institutional, business, commercial and industrial establishments, and solid
waste in required containers at construction sites, shall be based upon the
number of approved containers collected per collection. Where an establishment
has its own water or sewer connection, the fact that it shares a building with
another establishment, or does not occupy the entire building, shall be of no
significance. The charge per approved container per collection shall be as
follows:
 
               Each Time Container is Emptied Monthly Minimum
90-gallon      $6.76                          $54.06
1.5 cubic yard $9.02                          $72.11
3.0 cubic yard $17.66                         $137.22
 
   (B)   The rates and fees provided in this section shall be effective with
respect to usage for which billings are made after October 1, 2024.
(Ord. 4063, passed - -2011; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013; Ord. 4140, passed - -
2014; Ord. 4174, passed - - 2016; Ord. 4214, passed 7-3-2017; Ord. 4234, passed
9-17-2018; Ord. 4247, passed 9-16-2019; Ord. 4254, passed 9-8-2020; Ord. 4263,
passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 4288, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 4301, passed 2-21-2023;
Ord. 4310, passed 9-25-2023; Ord. 4314, passed 11-6-2023; Ord. 4337, passed 9-
3-2024)
§ 6-6-25 TREES, BRUSH, AND YARD WASTE; DISPOSITION AT CITY DISPOSAL SITES.
   (A)   Every person who shall dispose of trees, brush, or yard waste at any
disposal site of the city shall, effective October 1, 2022, pay the following
fee.
Outside city commercial/non- residential yard waste and tree disposal
   Inboun$25 per ton
Outside city residential yard waste
   Inboun$5 per 450 pounds
Mulch
   Outbou$25 per ton
Compost
   Outbou$18 per ton
 
   (B)   Provided, citizens of the city and commercial operators within the
city may dispose of yard waste from the yard of a residence within the city at
any of the city’s disposal sites without charge. If the tree, brush, or yard
waste is generated through commercial activities, from a residential or non-
residential site outside the city, then the above set forth charges will be
applicable. Citizens or commercial operators within the city must have valid
identification showing proof of residence inside the city or proof acceptable
to the city the tree, brush, or yard waste is from a residence within the city
to obtain disposal without charge. For purposes of this section, yard waste,
brush, and tree disposal shall mean grass clippings, brush, yard waste, and
tree material generated from a residence.
(Ord. 3776, passed - -2003; Ord. 4237, passed 10-1-2018; Ord. 4244, passed 7-
15-2019; Ord. 4252, passed 1-6-2020; Ord. 4263, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 4288,
passed 9-27-2022)
§ 6-6-26 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS AND NON-RECYCLABLE
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   For residential non-electronic disposal single stream recycling please
refer to §
6-6-23.
   (B)   Non residential customers recycling electronic equipment and
appliances please refer to the program specifics set forth below:
      (1)   Customers recycling electronic waste including but not limited to:
computer monitors, desk top and laptop computers, electronic mice, printers,
fax machines, scanners, electronic typewriters, keyboards, computer speakers,
servers, hard drives, television sets, VCR/DVD/Blue Ray players, home or auto
stereo equipment, small electronics, gaming equipment and CFL light bulbs and
florescent tubes brought in for disposal, shall be charged a fee of $0.50 per
pound for all electronic waste brought in for recycling.
      (2)   For non-recyclable appliances and electronic equipment, every
person including residential and non-residential customers, who shall dispose
of an appliance or non-recyclable electronic equipment at any disposal site of
the city shall pay a charge of $26.78 per item disposed.
      (3)   The fee for the Gaylord (cardboard) containers shall be $21.22 per
month.
      (4)   The rates and fees provided in this section shall be effective
after October 1, 2022.
(Ord. 3824, passed - -2004; Ord. 4010, passed - -2009; Ord. 4140, passed - -
2014; Ord. 4174, passed - -2016; Ord. 4200, passed - -2016; Ord. 4233, passed
9-17-2018; Ord. 4263, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 4288, passed 9-27-2022)
§ 6-6-27 SPECIAL COLLECTIONS AND ADDITIONAL CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Upon request, the city may, but is not required to, make special
collections of solid waste or deliver addition containers for residents having
an event. When a special collection is made, the charges shall be as follows:
 
Residential 90-gallon roll-out trash container $13.12
Residential yard waste container               $13.12
1.5 cubic yard trash container                 $17.50
3 cubic yard trash container                   $33.31
Each appliance                                 $26.78
 
   (B)   When notified of an event such as a picnic, fundraiser, craft fair,
party, collection point for recycling, or other non-routine event and an
additional container is requested, the charges shall be as follows:
 
90-gallon      $13.12 rental fee per container and $13.12 for dump per
               container
1.5 cubic yard $17.50 rental fee per container and $17.50 for dump per
               container
3 cubic yard   $33.31 rental fee per container and $33.31 for dump per
               container
 
   (C)   The charges for the collection of other solid waste shall be based on
volume as measured by the capacity of a standard one-half ton pick-up truck.
There shall be a minimum charge of $15. If the volume of solid waste as
estimated by the representative of the Sanitation Department exceeds to
capacity of a standard one-half ton pick-up truck, the charge shall be $35 for
each pick-up load.
   (D)   The rates provided for in this section shall become effective October
1, 2023.
(Ord. 4214, passed 7-3-2017; Ord. 4235, passed 9-17-2018; Ord. 4263, passed 9-
13-2021; Ord. 4288, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 4314, passed 11-6-2023)
WATER SERVICE
§ 6-6-28 WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   Each user of the city water system located within the city
limits shall pay charges based on monthly consumption as follows:
 
Gallons     Rate per Thousand Gallons
All gallons $1.76
 
      (2)   Consumption of any part of 1,000 gallons shall be considered as
consumption of an entire 1,000 gallons for purposes of calculating billed
consumption and total consumption charge.
   (B)   (1)   Each user of the city water system located within the city
limits shall pay a monthly charged based on meter size as follows:
Water Meter Size Minimum Charge
Water Meter Size Minimum Charge
5/8" or 3/4"     $11.32
1"               $20.48
1-1/2"           $38.79
2"               $52.51
3"               $84.21
4"               $129.10
6"               $182.87
8"               $272.41
 
      (2)   In the case of premises as to which the final date for connection
of the plumbing has been deferred under §
22-1-8 of this code, there shall be a monthly charge for standby fire
protection service of $3.
      (3)   Each user of the city water system located outside of the city
limits, except for wholesale water use provided by the city pursuant to the
terms of an agreement, shall pay the following one and one-half times the
minimum charges listed above. Provided, wholesale water use and sale shall be
sold at an agreed upon amount as set by the City Council for charges outside
the city limits.
      (4)   The rates and fees provided for in this section shall be effective
with respect to all connections, installations, and billings after October 1,
2024.
(Ord. 4063, passed - -2011; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013; Ord. 4140, passed - -
2014; Ord. 4174, passed - - 2016; Ord. 4178, passed - -2016; Ord. 4195, passed
- -2016; Ord. 4201, passed - -2016; Ord. 4214, passed 7-3-2017; Ord. 4234,
passed 9-17-2018; Ord. 4247, passed 9-17-2019; Ord. 4263, passed 9-13-2021;
Ord. 4288, passed 9-27-2022; Ord. 4301, passed 2-21-2023; Ord. 4310, passed 9-
25-2023; Ord. 4337, passed 9-3-2024)
LAND USE
§ 6-6-29 LAND USE PERMITS.
   The following fees are hereby imposed for matters pertaining to zoning and
land use:
 
Amended plat                      $200
Preliminary plat                  $200
Final plat                        $200
Plat vacation                     $200
Agricultural estate dwelling site $200
 
   (B)   Zoning fees.
 
Zoning amendment                 $300
Special use permit               $300
Special permit - parking (shared $150
facility or exception)
Planned unit development         $300
Mobile home park license         $150 (first 20 spaces)
                                 $5 (each additional space over 20 spaces)
 
   (C)   Board of Adjustment fees.
 
Appeal application $150
 
   (D)   Other fees.
 
Zoning verification letter      $20
Zoning/land use map (11" X 17") $20
 
(Ord. 3458, passed - -1995; Ord. 4332, passed 7-15-2024)
PARKING
§ 6-6-30 PARKING PERMITS AND FEES.
   The following fees are hereby imposed relating to the parking of vehicles.
 
Over Parking
If paid within 24 hours after notice                           $5
If paid more than 24 hours and less than 72 hours after notice $10
Limited time parking permit                                    $15
 
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013)
MISCELLANEOUS FEES
§ 6-6-31 POLICE ESCORT FEES.
   A fee of $10 shall be paid for each police escort during the transportation
of monies or valuables.
§ 6-6-31.1 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to enable the city to require
reimbursement from:
      (1)   Those responsible for (either intentionally, accidentally, or as a
result of actions by others) or owning or controlling property affected by, the
leaking, spilling, releasing, or allowing certain hazardous substances or
materials to escape containment, or for damaged and/or downed power lines,
electric service lines, gas mains, gas service conduits, water mains, sanitary
sewer mains, storm sewer mains, occupancy leads, telephone lines, cable
television lines, traffic signals and signs; thereby requiring the city and/or
its agents, to provide containment, cleaning, and/or disposal of hazardous
substances or materials, or for the securing and prudent monitoring of the site
of an accidental or natural disaster, including those involving public or
private utilities; and
      (2)   Those responsible for (either intentionally, accidentally, or as a
result of actions by others) or owning or controlling property affected by or
involved in an incident, either emergency or non-emergency, including bomb
threats, vehicle fires, illegal fires, extrication from vehicles involved in
accidents, and accident related clean up.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCIDENT, INCLUDING NATURAL DISASTER. An unforeseen or unexpected
happening or occurrence which of itself causes great harm or damage, or which
creates the potential for great harm or damage to individuals and/or property,
and which requires immediate and prudent securing and monitoring by the city,
and/or agents of the city, to reduce the potential for such damage, but does
not include emergency incidents.
      BOMB THREAT. The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device which if discharged as threatened would violate a federal, state, or
local law; or cause property damage and/or personal injury or death.
      DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR MATERIALS. Any substance (including
gases or vapors) which if spilled, leaked, or otherwise released from its
container, is dangerous or harmful to the environment or human or animal life,
health, or safety, or otherwise constitutes a danger, threat, or nuisance to
the public health, safety, or welfare. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS shall include, but
not be limited to, such substances as chemicals and gases, explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum based products, poisons, biologic
agents, flammable combustibles, hazardous wastes, or corrosives. The Fire Chief
or the Chief’s designee, shall have reasonable discretion to determine whether
any particular substance constitutes a hazardous material.
      EMERGENCY INCIDENT. A bomb threat, vehicle fire, an illegal fire,
extrication from vehicles involved in accidents, and accident related clean up.
      EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The providing, sending, and/or utilization of public
works, police, fire, and/or rescue services by the city at an emergency
incident or at an incident involving release of a dangerous or hazardous
substance or material, or an accident requiring immediate and prudent securing
and monitoring by the city and/or agents of the city.
      EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
         (a)   The expense for an emergency incident will be determined
according to ordinances adopted by the City Council.
         (b)   For all other emergency responses, the direct costs incurred by
the city in making an appropriate emergency response to an accident or
incident, including the costs of providing police, fire fighting, and rescue
services, public works and/or other city personnel, or the services of other
agents of the city, at the scene of an incident or accident. Related
administrative costs, which for agents of the city shall be 15% of the actual
charge to the city, accruing after the occurrence of such incident or accident
are also included. Such costs and expenses shall include the salaries or wages,
cost of workers’ compensation benefits, and fringe benefits of the personnel
responding to the incident or accident and the costs of equipment and materials
used.
      ILLEGAL FIRE. A fire set or determined to have been set in violation of a
federal, state, or local law and shall include an arson fire, a fire set in
violation of a “no burning” ban, or order and/or a fire set without a required
permit.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity,
or any other legal entity responsible for an emergency incident or any owner,
tenant, occupant, or party in control of real and/or personal property from
which, onto which or related to which there is a public safety or fire
emergency incident and their heirs, estates, successors, and assigns.
   (C)   Duty to remove and clean up. It shall be the duty of any person, firm,
corporation, public or private utility, or any other entity directly or
indirectly causing, contributing to, or allowing the leakage, spillage, or any
other release of dangerous or hazardous substances or materials, or owning or
controlling property affected thereby or requiring the securing and monitoring
of sites or locations of accidents and/or natural disasters, including downed
power lines and electric service lines, ruptured gas mains, gas service
conduits, water mains, occupancy leads, telephone lines, or cable television
lines, to immediately secure, monitor, and clean up the area or location in
such manner that the area or location involved is fully restored to the
condition existing prior to such occurrence. The city shall have no duty to
contain, clean up, or dispose of any release of hazardous substances or
materials, or other materials, but in emergency situations, the Fire Chief or
Chief of Police, or their designees, shall have the authority to take whatever
action is reasonably necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the general public, including securing and monitoring sites of accidents or
providing for or arranging for the containment, removal, and clean up of any
hazardous substances or materials. The city shall inspect the site to ensure
that clean up has been fully completed.
   (D)   Failure to remove and clean up. Any person or entity failing to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, and/or where a non-emergency incident,
emergency response is provided by the city, shall be liable to the city and
shall reimburse the city for all costs and expenses, including the costs
incurred by the city or any agents the city engages, for the complete
abatement, clean up, restoration, and/or securing of the affected area.
   (E)   Payment of bill. The city shall, within ten days of receiving itemized
costs incurred for an emergency response, submit a bill for the same by first
class mail or personal delivery to any person or entity liable for these
expenses as previously enumerated under this section. The bill shall require
full payment within 30 days from date of billing.
   (F)   Enforcement. If any person or entity fails to pay the bill submitted
by the city as above provided, the city shall have the right to bring an action
in the appropriate court to collect such costs. If such person or entity is the
owner of real property affected or partially affected by the release of
hazardous materials, or requiring emergency securement or monitoring, the city
shall have the right to add any and all costs of clean up, restoration and/or
of any emergency response, to the tax roll of such property and to levy and
collect such costs in the same manner as provided for the levy and collection
of real property taxes against said property.
   (G)   Fee schedule. The cost for the city’s response to emergency incidents,
the city shall charge a fee equal the costs incurred by the city and shall be
based upon the time and materials used by the city in clean up and containment,
according to §§ 6-6-31,
6-6-32, 6-6-33, 6-6-33.1, 6-6-33.2, and 6-6-34 of this subchapter, as well as
all other costs and expenses incurred by the city, plus administrative costs
set forth in division (B) above.
§ 6-6-32 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES FOR EXCESSIVE POLICE ALARMS.
   The liquidated expense for excessive police alarms described in Chapter 16
of this code shall be as follows:
 
Number of False Alarms (Each Occurrence) Amount
5 to 10                                  $25
11 to 20                                 $50
21 or more                               $100
 
§ 6-6-33 POLICE ADMINISTRATIVE TOW FEES.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is towed as described elsewhere in this code, a
police administrative fee in the sum of $10 shall be charged and shall be in
addition to any sums charged by the towing agency.
(Ord. 3529, passed - -1997)
§ 6-6-33.1 TOWING AND STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The storage cost of motor vehicles at the police warehouse or at the
city/county impound lot shall be the sum of $5 per day. These storage fees
shall be separate from, and in addition to, any fees charged for storage of the
vehicle when actually in the private towing contractor’s impound lot. These
storage fees shall be retained by the city, less any payments made to county
pursuant to the interlocal cooperation agreement for vehicle storage.
   (B)   The fee for any vehicle towing shall be as follows.
      (1)   The fee for any police tow shall equal the charge for the tow to
the city pursuant to the current tow contract between the city and the private
towing contractor.
      (2)   In addition to the tow fee referred to in §
6-6-31.1(B)(1) of this subchapter, there will be a $20 administrative fee
payable to the Police Department for any tow.
(Ord. 3529, passed - -1997; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013)
§ 6-6-33.2 MISCELLANEOUS; POLICE SERVICES.
   (A)   From time to time, the Police Department provides certain services to
the general public for which a fee is charged.
   (B)   The fees for the following services shall be as follows.
Accident report copies by fax or mail $4 (must provide self addressed, stamped
                                      envelope)
Blood test                            $125
Copies                                $1 per page
Copies of police photographs          $20 plus processing costs
Criminal history checks               $7.50
Fingerprints                          $7.50 per card
Hand gun permit                       $5
Intoxilizer breath test               $75
Private security services             $50 per hour, per person
Video/audio duplication, including    $20
storage media
 
§ 6-6-34 LABOR OF CITY EMPLOYEES; USE OF CITY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   When city employees perform work which for any lawful reason can be
charged to some other person, the rate charged to the other person shall be as
set forth in this section, plus an additional 15% administrative fee.
   (B)   For work involving the use of city equipment, the following rates
shall be charged.
Asphalt kettles                          $50/hour
Bucket truck                             $60/hour
Cement saw                               $6 linear foot
Chain saw                                $30/hour
Chipper                                  $45/hour
Compressors                              $25/hour
Dump truck                               $65/hour
Fire hydrants                            $10/per day, plus charges for water
                                         consumed as specified elsewhere
Flusher truck                            $65/hour
Forklift                                 $40/hour
Hand blowers (snow)                      $25/hour
Hand mower                               $25/hour
Line eraser                              $35/hour
Loaders                                  $85/hour
Motor graders                            $85/hour
One-ton trucks                           $30/hour
Paint guns                               $30/hour
Paint machines (ride-on)                 $65/hour
Pickups and other vehicles               $30/hour
Pump 4"                                  $30/hour
Pump (Homelite 3")                       $25/hour
Salt spreaders                           $85/hour
Sampler                                  $20/per day
Sewer jet                                $250/hour
   Emergency                          $350/hour
Skid-steer loader                        $45/hour
Snow blowers (on-loaders)                $60/hour
Snow plows: Jeep and the like            $40/hour
Stanley power unit                       $20/hour
Sweepers                                 $85/hour
Tapping machine A-2                      $30/hour
Tapping machine B-100                    $30/hour
Tapping machine D-5                      $30/hour
Tractor with backhoe                     $85/hour
Tractor with mowers                      $60/hour
Wastewater televised pipeline inspection $225/hour
   After regular business hours       $325/hour
Weed eater                               $10/hour
Wet tapping equipment                    $200/hour
 
   (C)   For the repair of frozen water meters, the rate charged shall be the
labor rate for city employees specified elsewhere in this section. In addition
thereto, the city shall charge for transportation at the rate of $15 per hour
with a $5 minimum and the following frozen meter fee.
 
5/8-inch meter $10.25
3/4-inch meter $16.18
1-inch meter   $22.95
 
   (D)   (1)   For the labor of city employees, the rate charged shall be per
employee per hour or fraction based on the following schedule.
 
Street Department employee     $55
Water Department employee      $44
Wastewater Department employee $41
 
      (2)   If overtime is involved, the rate charted shall be one and one-half
times the rate listed above per hour or fraction thereof.
(Ord. 3824, passed - -2004; Ord. 4227, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 6-6-35 USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY OF SIDEWALKS, STREETS FOR NEIGHBORHOOD BLOCK
PARTY, STREETS FOR CARNIVALS, BAZAARS, OR THE SALE OF MERCHANDISE.
   When applying for a permit to use the right-of-way of sidewalks or streets
for the sale of merchandise, or for any activity allowed by this code,
including those activities described in §
20-6-52 of this code, the applicant must pay the following fee:
 
Permit to operate one of the activities described in § $25
20-6-52 
Permit to conduct neighborhood block party              $50
Right-of-way permit to use sidewalks                    $50
Sale of merchandise on public right-of-way              $25
 
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997; Ord. 4115, passed - -2013; Ord. 4129, passed - -
2014; Ord. 4150, passed - -2015)
§ 6-6-36 DEPOSIT FOR CITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Any person applying on or after October 15, 2004 for solid waste
collection service, sewer service, water service, or any one or more of such
services, shall pay to the city a deposit in the sum of $100. If such person is
the owner of the premises for which such service or services is requested, each
such deposit will entitle such person to service at up to four locations. The
requirement of a deposit shall be waived when one of following conditions is
met:
      (1)    The customer produces a letter from another utility indicating a
credit history which is satisfactory to the City Manager or the designee of the
City Manager; or
      (2)   An on-line credit check indicates credit history which is
satisfactory to the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager. If the
applicant desires an on-line credit check, he or she will pay the city the
actual cost of conducting the credit check. A deposit in the amount of $25 will
be paid to the city for this purpose. If the actual cost of the credit check is
less than $25, the city will refund the difference.
   (B)   Any person who applied for service before July 1, 1997, and whose
service thereafter is terminated for non-payment of the charges for such
service shall, as a condition of the resumption of such service, make the
deposit previously described. The exceptions to the deposit requirement
described in division (A) above will not be available to such person.
   (C)   Interest shall not be paid upon the sums held by the city as deposits.
   (D)   If a person who has paid a deposit fails to timely pay for such
service or services, the deposit will be applied against the unpaid charges,
the service for which payment was not timely made will be terminated, and such
service will not be resumed until the charges have been paid in full and an
additional sum has been paid sufficient to restore the deposit to $100. The
exceptions to the deposit requirement described in division (A) above will not
be available to such person.
   (E)   If a person who has paid a deposit as required in this section applies
for the service or services described in this section at a different location,
such person will be required to pay the $100 for the different location,
subject to the exceptions as noted in division (A) above.
   (F)   Upon final termination of service and payment of all charges, the
deposit will be returned to the person who paid it or his or her successor in
interest.
(Ord. 3808, passed - -2004)
ARTICLE 7: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE
Section
   
6-7-1   Classification of penalties; costs; sentences; use of Waiver/Fine
Schedule; where served
   
6-7-2   Penalty provided in other part of municipal code; disposition where no
specific penalty provided
§ 6-7-1 CLASSIFICATION OF PENALTIES; COSTS; SENTENCES; USE OF WAIVER/FINE
SCHEDULE; WHERE SERVED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this code and any subsequent amendments thereto,
violations are divided into the following classes which are distinguished from
one another by the following penalties which are authorized upon conviction or
waiver:
 
Class of Violation Maximum                                   Minimum
I                  7 days imprisonment or $500 fine, or both None
II                 $250 fine                                 None
W                  As provided in Chapter 22, Article 5
 
   (B)   In all cases the convicted or waiverable defendant shall pay the costs
of prosecution.
   (C)   All city ordinance violations which are the equivalent of state
statute violations listed on the Supreme Court Waiver/Fine Schedule are
waiverable and carry the penalty listed on the Supreme Court Waiver/Fine
Schedule unless the scheduled fine exceeds the maximum allowed by any class of
violation listed in division (A). City ordinance violations are now designated
as waiverable offenses and may be incorporated in any County Court rule.
   (D)   All sentences of imprisonment shall be served in the county jail.
(Ord. 3926, passed - -2006; Ord. 4316, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 6-7-2 PENALTY PROVIDED IN OTHER PART OF MUNICIPAL CODE; DISPOSITION WHERE NO
SPECIFIC PENALTY PROVIDED.
   Any violation defined anywhere in this code without specification of its
class shall be punishable as provided in that portion of this code which
defines that violation. If no specific penalty is provided, the violation is a
Class II violation.
CHAPTER 7: ELECTIONS
Section
   
7-1-1   Election districts; defined
   
7-1-2   Regular elections; time; law governing
   
7-1-3   City Council members; service until successors’ qualification
§ 7-1-1 ELECTION DISTRICTS; DEFINED.
   Each of the wards of the city shall be divided into two election districts,
as follows.
   (A)   Ward One shall be divided by 27th Street. That portion of Ward One
which lies north of 27th Street shall be Election District SC1. That portion
which lies south of the 27th Street shall be Election District SC2.
   (B)   Ward Two shall be divided by East Overland Drive. That portion of Ward
Two which lies north of East Overland Drive shall be Election District SC3.
That portion which lies south of East Overland Drive shall be Election District
SC4.
   (C)   (1)   Ward Three shall be divided by the following line: beginning at
the center of the intersection of Broadway Avenue and West Overland Drive; then
west on West Overland Drive to the center of its intersection with Avenue I and
Schmid Drive, then northwest and west on Schmid Drive to the centerline of
Avenue K, then north on Avenue K to the centerline of 20th Street.
      (2)   That portion of Ward Three which lies north and east of the line
shall be Election District SC5. The remaining portion shall be Election
District SC6.
   (D)   Ward Four shall be divided by 27th Street. That portion of Ward Four
which lies south of 27th Street shall be Election District SC7. That portion
which lies north of 27th Street shall be Election District SC8.
§ 7-1-2 REGULAR ELECTIONS; TIME; LAW GOVERNING.
   The regular municipal elections of the city, including the election of City
Council members, shall be held in even-numbered years. Such election for the
year 1974, and all succeeding regular municipal elections, shall be held on the
date of the state-wide primary election for the state, and shall be held in
accordance with the provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 32, as amended.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1994, passed - -1973)
§ 7-1-3 CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS; SERVICE UNTIL SUCCESSORS’ QUALIFICATION.
   City Council members in office shall serve until their successors are
elected and have qualified for office as provided by law.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1878, passed - -1971)
CHAPTER 8: FIRE
   Article
      
1.   FIRE HAZARDS AND PREVENTION
      
2.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
3.   FIRE ALARMS
ARTICLE 1: FIRE HAZARDS AND PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
8-1-1   Terms; defined
   
8-1-2   Repealed
   
8-1-3   Repealed
   
8-1-4   Repealed
   
8-1-5   Same; Chief of Fire Department
   
8-1-5   .1Same; Fire Code Official
   
8-1-6   Same; corporation counsel
   
8-1-7   Same; fire limits
   
8-1-8   Same; Fire Prevention Code
   
8-1-9   Same; municipality
   
8-1-10   Same; terms in standard codes
   
8-1-11   Article; application
   
8-1-12   Fire Prevention Code adopted; exceptions; revisions
   
8-1-12.1   Same; additional
   
8-1-12.2   Grease duct; testing
   
8-1-13   Repealed
   
8-1-14   Records; submission to Fire Department required; format
   
8-1-15– 8-1-17   Reserved
Administration of Law
   
8-1-18   Repealed
   
8-1-19   Repealed
   
8-1-20   Repealed
   
8-1-21   Repealed
   
8-1-22   Repealed
   
8-1-23   Employees and department staff; residence requirement
   
8-1-24 - 8-1-26   Reserved
Particular Hazards
   
8-1-27   Repealed
   
8-1-28   Repealed
   
8-1-29   Fireworks; sale; discharge; possession for sale; gift; use
   
8-1-30   Same; definitions
   
8-1-31   Same; permissible list; additions to
   
8-1-32   Flying lantern-type devices; prohibited
   
8-1-33   Repealed
   
8-1-34   Repealed
   
8-1-35   Fireworks; exhibitions; display; permit
   
8-1-36   Same; sale; samples
   
8-1-37   Repealed
   
8-1-38   Repealed
   
8-1-39   Same; railroad tank cars
   
8-1-40   Repealed
   
8-1-41   Crankcase drainings; storage
   
8-1-42   Same; flammable and combustible liquids; dumping
   
8-1-43   Repealed
   
8-1-44   Repealed
   
8-1-45   Repealed
   
8-1-46   Repealed
   
8-1-47   Gasoline and hydrocarbons; pools, pouring, and leaks
   
8-1-48   Repealed
   
8-1-49   Repealed
   
8-1-50   Repealed
   
8-1-51   Repealed
   
8-1-52   Repealed
   
8-1-53   Repealed
   
8-1-54– 8-1-57   Reserved
Violations; Penalty
   
8-1-58   Violations; penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 8-1-1 TERMS; DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this article, certain terms (in addition to those
defined in the standard codes, or parts thereof, adopted in this article) are
hereby defined as follows.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-2 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-3 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-4 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-5 SAME; CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Chief.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-5.1 SAME; FIRE CODE OFFICIAL.
   FIRE CODE OFFICIAL. The Fire Chief or other designated authority charged
with the administration and enforcement of the code, or a duly authorized
representative.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-6 SAME; CORPORATION COUNSEL.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-7 SAME; FIRE LIMITS.
   FIRE LIMITS. The fire limits as defined in Chapter 4 of this code.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-8 SAME; FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   FIRE PREVENTION CODE. The provisions of the standard code or codes adopted
in this article.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-9 SAME; MUNICIPALITY.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Scottsbluff. Nebraska.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-10 SAME; TERMS IN STANDARD CODES.
   The definitions of terms contained in the standard codes and parts thereof
adopted in this article shall apply throughout this article, except as
otherwise clearly indicated in this article.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-11 ARTICLE; APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this article shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the city and the extraterritorial jurisdiction as defined in Chapter
25 of this code, except as otherwise clearly provided herein. All of the
requirements and restrictions prescribed by this article are minimum
requirements or restrictions. If greater requirements or restrictions are
imposed in any other chapter, such greater requirements or restrictions shall
control.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-12 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED; EXCEPTIONS; REVISIONS.
   (A)   The following standard fire and life safety codes are adopted for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion, the International Fire Code, 2018 Edition,
including Appendix Chapters A - K, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the city (all
collectively the “Fire Prevention Code”).
   (B)   Provided, the most restrictive of regulations will be used when there
is conflict between the Fire Prevention Code and other codes adopted by the
city. Not less that one copy of the Fire Prevention Code referred to above
shall be and remain on file in the office of the City Clerk; and the contents,
to the extent adopted, are incorporated in and made a part of this article by
reference. Any reference to a standard code is hereinafter referred to as the
Fire Prevention Code.
   (C)   The following sections shall read:
      (1)   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Scottsbluff.
      (2)   Section 102.7. The codes and standards referenced in this code
shall be those that are listed in Chapter 80, and such codes and standards
shall be considered to be part of the requirements of this code to the
prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated in Sections
102.7.1 and 102.7.2 except that the referenced International Code Council
(ICC), other than the International Mechanical Code or the International
Plumbing Code, National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), and International
Kitchen Exhaust Cleaning Association (IKECA) codes shall be adopted in their
full text.
      (3)   Section 110.4. Insert: Class II Violation, $250.00, N/A.
      (4)   Section 112.4. Insert: none, $250.00.
      (5)   Section 109.1 Add: The appeal shall be made in a writing which
shall state the decision appealed and the alleged grounds of error, and shall
be filed with the City Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of the
decision appealed.
      (6)   Section 903.2.8 Add: Exception 1: Except in one- and two-family
dwellings.
      (7)   Section 5601.1.3. Add: Exception 5. Fireworks sold, possessed, or
discharged in accordance with City Codes 8-1-29 through 8-1-36.
   (D)   The geographic limits referenced in the following sections of the 2018
International Fire Code shall mean the fire limits as defined in Chapter 4:
5704.2.9.6.1, 5706.2.4.4, 5806.2, and 6104.2.
(Ord. 4231, passed 6-18-2018; Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-12.1 SAME; ADDITIONAL.
   In addition to the codes listed in the International Fire Code, Chapter 80,
the following documents shall also be adopted and/or revised as indicated and
considered as part of the Fire Code:
   (A)   NFPA 291-19: Recommended Practice for Fire Flow Testing and Marking of
Hydrants, Section 5-2-1.1 shall read: All barrels of private hydrants are to be
chrome yellow and all barrels of public hydrants are to be Rustoleum Federal
Safety Orange, or an approved equivalent; and
   (B)   NFPA 101-18: Remove Section 24.3.5.1 Automatic sprinkler system
requirements for one- and two-family dwellings.
      (1)   PEI/RP100: Installation of Underground Liquid Storage Systems (2017
Edition), PEI/RP200: Installation of Aboveground Storage Systems (2019
Edition), PEI/RP500: Inspection & Maintenance of Motor Fuel Dispensing (2019
Edition), PEI/RP900: UST Inspection and Maintenance (2017 Edition); and
      (2)   PEI/RP1200: Testing of UST Spill, Overfill, Leak Detection and
Secondary Containment (2019 Edition), ASHRAE (American Society of Heating,
Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers) 154, 2016 Edition.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-12.2 GREASE DUCT; TESTING.
   Water-testing as described in American Society of Heating, Refrigerating,
and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) 154, 2016 Edition, section 5.2.1.2
shall be the sole approved method of execution for performing the leakage test
of NFPA 96-17: 7.5.2.1.2.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-13 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-14 RECORDS; SUBMISSION TO FIRE DEPARTMENT REQUIRED; FORMAT.
   Records of all system inspections, tests, and maintenance required by the
referenced standards shall be maintained on the premises and shall be submitted
to the Fire Prevention Office of the Fire Department in a manner and format as
prescribed by the Fire Code Official within five working days after the
inspections, tests, and maintenance are completed.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§§ 8-1-15 – 8-1-17 RESERVED.
ADMINISTRATION OF LAW
§ 8-1-18 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-19 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-20 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-21 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-22 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-23 EMPLOYEES AND DEPARTMENT STAFF; RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT.
   All employees and department staff of the Scottsbluff Fire Department shall
reside no more than 30 miles from the corporate limits of the city, provided,
in any event, no employee or department staff shall reside more than 45
minutes’ response time from Fire Station 1 from the time of notification by the
Fire Department as determined by the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 4290, passed 10-3-2022; Ord. 4336, passed 9-3-2024)
§§ 8-1-24 – 8-1-26 RESERVED
PARTICULAR HAZARDS
§ 8-1-27 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-28 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-29 FIREWORKS; SALE; DISCHARGE; POSSESSION FOR SALE; GIFT; USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to
sell at retail, possess for sale at retail, give away, use, discharge, or cause
to be discharged, consumer fireworks, and any other fireworks approved under
the provisions of this article. Consumer fireworks may be sold at retail only
between June 25 at 12:01 a.m. and July 4 at 11:59 p.m., and December 29 at 12:
01 a.m. and December 31 at 11:59 p.m. each year and may be discharged only
between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. June 25 through July 3, and 8:00 a.m. through
11:59 p.m. July 4, and between 4:30 p.m. December 31 and 12:30 a.m. January 1.
Provided, toy cap pistols and toy caps may be sold, given away, used,
discharged, or caused to be discharged at any time. Provided, further,
fireworks of any description are authorized for purposes of public exhibitions
or displays as provided in this article, and public exhibition or displays
under the auspices of any governmental subdivision of the state, and according
to state law.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-30 SAME; DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms defined in this section shall have the meaning herein
provided for purposes of §
8-1-29 of this subchapter.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
      (1)   Any device that meets the requirements set forth in 16 C.F.R. parts
1500 and 1507, as such regulations existed on January 1, 2021; and is tested
and approved by a nationally recognized testing facility or by the State Fire
Marshal.
      (2)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS does not include:
         (a)   Wire sparklers; and
         (b)   Fireworks that have been tested by the State Fire Marshal as a
response to complaints and have been deemed unsafe.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 4260, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 8-1-31 SAME; PERMISSIBLE LIST; ADDITIONS TO.
   A regulation by the State Fire Marshal adding fireworks to the list of
permissible fireworks as authorized by the state statutes shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the fireworks are safe for general use for purposes
of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 4260, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 8-1-32 FLYING LANTERN-TYPE DEVICES; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to
use, sell, offer for sale, or possess flying lantern-type devices. Flying
lantern-type devices means devices that require a flame which produces heated
air trapped in a balloon-type covering allowing the device to float in the air,
as defined in Neb. RS 28-1255. Flying lantern-type devices shall not include
hot-air balloons used for transporting persons.
(Ord. 4260, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 8-1-33 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-34 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-35 FIREWORKS; EXHIBITIONS; DISPLAY; PERMIT.
   Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation, before giving any public
exhibition or display of fireworks, shall, not less than 15 days prior to the
date when the exhibition or display is to be given, apply to the Fire Code
Official for a permit to give such exhibition or display, and, upon request,
furnish to the Fire Chief a sample of the fireworks to be exhibited or
displayed. The Fire Code Official, upon being satisfied by investigation or
otherwise that reasonable safety standards are to be observed at the proposed
exhibition or display, shall grant such application.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-36 SAME; SALE; SAMPLES.
   Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation proposing to sell fireworks
within the city shall, upon a request made by the Fire Code Official, furnish
to the Fire Code Official, not less than 15 days before fireworks may lawfully
be sold within the city, a sample of any or all fireworks to be sold.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-37 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-38 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-39 SAME; RAILROAD TANK CARS.
   Railroad tank cars containing flammable or combustible liquids, liquefied
petroleum gases, or an hydrous ammonia shall not be parked or allowed to stand
within the city longer than a period of time reasonably necessary, and utilized
for switching operations or for the loading or unloading of such tank cars.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-40 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-41 CRANKCASE DRAINING; STORAGE.
   Crankcase draining may be stored within the fire limits only in such tanks
or in closed steel drums or barrels. Storage in steel drums or barrels shall
not exceed, in the aggregate, 200 gallons on any one premises. Storage of
crankcase draining shall in all other respects conform to the requirements for
storage of Class III liquids which are prescribed by the Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-42 SAME; FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS; DUMPING.
   No crankcase draining or flammable or combustible liquids shall be dumped on
any lot, tract of land, street, or alley.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-43 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-44 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-45 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-46 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-47 GASOLINE AND HYDROCARBONS; POOLS, POURING, AND LEAKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To cause or permit to be present on, above, or below the surface of
the ground of any premises within the city owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by such person, any pool gasoline or other hydrocarbons; or
   (B)   To cause or permit any gasoline or other hydrocarbons to be poured,
dumped, or leaked onto or into the ground. Each day such a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense. Any pool of gasoline or other
hydrocarbons, the pouring or dumping of gasoline or other hydrocarbons, and any
tank or other container from which gasoline or other hydrocarbons leak (whether
on, above or below the surface of the ground) shall constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-1-48 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-49 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-50 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-51 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-52 REPEALED.
§ 8-1-53 REPEALED.
§§ 8-1-54 – 8-1-57 RESERVED.
VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
§ 8-1-58 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article, or the failure to comply with
any order or regulation made thereunder, or building in violation of a detailed
statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder or of a permit issued
thereunder, is a Class II violation. The imposition of a penalty for a
violation of this article shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue, and each day that such violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. Application of the above penalty or penalties
shall not prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or enforced
termination of prohibited activities.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
ARTICLE 2: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
   
8-2-1   Emergency services; attendance; duty
   
8-2-2   Fire Chief; command; members; subject to
   
8-2-3   Aid; summon; power; violation
   
8-2-4   Repealed
   
8-2-5   Contents of building; destruction; prevention; firefighter; duty
   
8-2-6   Personal property on premises; removal
   
8-2-7   Maintenance of order; Fire Chief; power
   
8-2-8   Disorderly conduct; violation
   
8-2-9   Repealed
   
8-2-10   Motor vehicles; operation; restrictions
   
8-2-11   Premises; after fire; watch and guard; duty
   
8-2-12   Supervisory officer; powers; duties
   
8-2-13   Repealed
   
8-2-14   Repealed
§ 8-2-1 EMERGENCY SERVICES; ATTENDANCE; DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department of the city to respond promptly
to all emergencies which require Fire Department intervention or assistance,
and to remain on the scene until the incident has been mitigated or until the
proper agency has relieved members of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-2 FIRE CHIEF; COMMAND; MEMBERS; SUBJECT TO.
   The members of the Fire Department, including both paid and volunteer, shall
be under the command and control of the Fire Chief at all incidents or
emergencies which require Fire Department intervention or assistance, and it
shall be the duty of each and all members to obey his or her orders and follow
his or her directions.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-3 AID; SUMMON; POWER; VIOLATION.
   Upon the alarm of emergency, the Fire Chief, the City Manager, or any police
officer of the city is hereby empowered to call for and require the aid of any
motor vehicle or of any person in drawing any fire engine, fire apparatus, or
other equipment to or from the fire. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully fail, refuse, or neglect to render such assistance.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-4 REPEALED.
§ 8-2-5 CONTENTS OF BUILDING; DESTRUCTION; PREVENTION; FIREFIGHTER DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of each member of the fire company to prevent as far as
within his or her power, the unnecessary destruction of the contents of any
building on fire.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-6 PERSONAL PROPERTY ON PREMISES; REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any member or members of the Fire Department, or
any other person, to take, remove, or carry away without the consent of the
owner, any article of value of any nature from the premises of a fire, other
than to remove such article a safe distance from the fire to prevent its
burning, or for the purpose of investigating the origin of the fire.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-7 MAINTENANCE OF ORDER; FIRE CHIEF; POWER.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or Fire Code Official of the city to
preserve and maintain order at all emergencies. For such purpose, he or she is
hereby empowered and given all power and authority of a police officer of the
city, and may call to his or her aid in the performance of his or her duty and
any and all inhabitants, citizens, or bystanders to assist him or her in
maintaining order thereat.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-8 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; VIOLATION.
   No person shall indulge or engage in any disorderly conduct at any fire
within the city.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-9 REPEALED.
§ 8-2-10 MOTOR VEHICLES; OPERATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person without the consent of the Fire Chief or Fire Code Official shall
drive any vehicle over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department within the
city. No vehicle, except by specific direction of the Fire Chief, shall follow,
approach, or park closer than 500 feet to a fire or fire apparatus. Provided,
the provisions of this section shall not apply either to vehicles carrying
doctors or members of the Fire Department, or to drivers of ambulances or other
authorized emergency vehicles when an emergency requires abrogation of the fire
traffic rules mentioned herein.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-11 PREMISES; AFTER FIRE; WATCH AND GUARD; DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or Fire Code Official, after the
engines are withdrawn and the firefighter dismissed from any fire within the
city, to have and keep charge of the premises until the probable danger of
smoulder fire is past and a reasonable time is had for investigation of the
cause of the fire. During this time, he or she shall cause strict watch to be
kept over and guard the premises where such fire shall have occurred.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-12 SUPERVISORY OFFICER; POWERS; DUTIES.
   In the absence of the Fire Chief, the supervisory officer of the Fire
Department who is in charge shall exercise the powers and duties of the Chief.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-2-13 REPEALED.
§ 8-2-14 REPEALED.
ARTICLE 3: FIRE ALARMS
Section
Definitions
   
8-3-1   Definitions; generally
   
8-3-2   Alarm; false
   
8-3-3   Alarm; fire
   
8-3-4   Alarm system
   
8-3-5   Consolidated communications center
   
8-3-6   Director
   
8-3-7   Owner; lessee
   
8-3-8   Public safety personnel
   
8-3-9   Vendor
Regulations
   
8-3-10   Alarm system; regulation; general
   
8-3-11   Automatic dialing and calling devices; interconnection
   
8-3-12   Same; recorded messages
   
8-3-13   Alarm system; permit; required
   
8-3-14   Same; application
   
8-3-15   Same; fees
   
8-3-16   Same; investigation; permit; issuance
   
8-3-17   Same; permit; renewal
   
8-3-18   Alarm systems; inspection
   
8-3-19   Vendors; duties
   
8-3-20   Permit holder; installation; maintenance
   
8-3-21   Same; training
   
8-3-22   Same; change in circumstances
   
8-3-23   Alarm; notification of owner or lessee; response by owner or lessee
   
8-3-24   Alarm system; use; general
   
8-3-25   False alarm; prohibited
   
8-3-26   Same; presumption
   
8-3-27   Violations; penalty
   
8-3-28   Alarm system; zones prohibited
   
8-3-29   Alarm system; annunciator location(s)
   
8-3-30   Alarm system; main panel replacement
DEFINITIONS
§ 8-3-1 DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   The terms defined in subsequent sections of this article which shall have
the meaning, when used in this article, that is given to the terms in the
following sections.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-2 ALARM; FALSE.
   FALSE ALARM.
      (1)   Any signal created by an alarm system (including, but not limited
to alarm signals initiated by human error) which directly or indirectly
notifies public safety personnel of the city of the occurrence of a fire, life
hazard, or medical emergency, or a burglary, robbery, or other criminal
offense, when either of the following circumstances is present:
         (a)   No such emergency or hazard has occurred or, as the case may be,
is occurring; or
         (b)   Public safety personnel or emergency medical personnel are not
needed to respond to such emergency or hazard.
      (2)   Provided, FALSE ALARM shall not include, a signal activated by
fire, lighting, tornado winds, flooding, or earthquake, or by telephone or
power line malfunction verified in writing by the telephone company or power
district within seven days after the alarm.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-3 ALARM; FIRE.
   FIRE ALARM. Any communication, or attempted communication, whether in person
or by a mechanical, electrical, or electronic device, that is intended or is
designed to elicit a prompt response by the Fire Department of the city.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-4 ALARM SYSTEM.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical, or electronic device that is
arranged, designed, or used to signal the occurrence in the city of a fire,
life hazard, or medical emergency. ALARM SYSTEMS include, but are not limited
to, those by which public safety personnel of the city are notified directly of
such signals by automatic recording devices, or are notified indirectly by way
of third party persons who monitor the alarm systems and who report such
signals to public safety personnel. ALARM SYSTEMS also include those designed
to register a signal which is so audible, visible, or in other ways perceptible
outside a protected building, structure, or facility as to notify persons in
the neighborhood beyond the lot where the signal is located, who may in turn
notify public safety personnel of the city of the signal. ALARM SYSTEMS do not
include those affixed to automobiles, or auxiliary devices installed by
telephone companies to protect telephone equipment, or systems which might be
damaged or disrupted by the use of an alarm system.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-5 CONSOLIDATED COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.
   CONSOLIDATED COMMUNICATIONS CENTER. The department of the county established
by an interlocal cooperation agreement between the city, the county, and other
municipalities within the county, and any subsequent amendments thereto.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-6 DIRECTOR.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Consolidated Communications Center.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-7 OWNER; LESSEE.
   OWNER or LESSEE. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity who
or which purchases, leases, contracts for, or obtains an alarm system.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-8 PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL.
   PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL. The officers and other members of the Fire
Department and Police Department, respectively.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-9 VENDOR.
   VENDOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity associated
with an alarm business or company, either indirectly or directly, whose duties
include, but are not necessarily limited to, any of the following: selling,
replacing, moving, repairing, maintaining, or installing an alarm system on or
in any structure, building, or facility.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
REGULATIONS
§ 8-3-10 ALARM SYSTEM; REGULATION; GENERAL.
   No alarm system shall be installed, maintained, or used in violation of any
of the requirements of this article, or of any applicable statute, law, or
administrative regulation of the United States of America or the state.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-11 AUTOMATIC DIALING AND CALLING DEVICES; INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   Persons owning or leasing an automatic dialing or calling device
situated on premises within the city, upon obtaining a permit therefor as
provided in this article, may, if authorized as provided in this article, have
the device interconnected to a telephone line or other NFPA 72-approved means
transmitting to:
      (1)   A privately-owned central alarm panel or station;
      (2)   An answering service; or
      (3)   The Consolidated Communications Center.
   (B)   An automatic dialing device also may be interconnected to one or more
telephone numbers available to the owner or lessee.
   (C)   Alarm signals transmitted to a supervising station shall be by
addressable device and shall be retransmitted by point identifier to the
communications center in an acceptable format. The Fire Chief or Fire Code
Official may apply these requirements retroactively to systems installed prior
to the effective date of this article.
   (D)   No automatic dialing or calling device shall be interconnected to any
emergency telephone trunk-line terminating in the Consolidated Communications
Center except as authorized in this article, and no such device shall be
connected to any telephone line of other offices or departments of the city
except such telephone line or lines as may be designated by the City Manager
for the specific purpose of receiving signals from alarm systems, pursuant to
authority which may be vested in the City Manager.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-12 SAME; RECORDED MESSAGES.
   Alarm systems that automatically dial or call a telephone line that has been
designated by the city as provided in this article shall comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   The total length of the recorded message being transmitted to the
Consolidated Communications Center (including repetition of message) shall not
exceed 30 seconds’ duration.
   (B)   The recorded message transmitted shall be repeated not less than two
nor more than three times.
   (C)   The recorded message being transmitted shall incorporate language
specifically identifying the message as a “recording”, with the balance of the
message identifying by street number and name the location of the emergency and
the nature of the event which caused the alarm system to activate. If the
location of the event signaled by the alarm system is in a multi-family
building or a multi-unit office or commercial building, the message shall also
identify by number and floor the particular dwelling unit, office unit, or
commercial unit in which the event occurred or is occurring.
   (D)   The recorded message being transmitted shall be appropriate for the
purpose for which the alarm system was installed, and the message in its
entirety shall be intelligible and spoken in the English language.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-13 ALARM SYSTEM; PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, interconnect with, or use
any alarm system within the city without a current valid permit therefor as
provided in this article.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-14 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Each application for an alarm system permit shall be made on a form
prescribed by the Director and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner or lessee, who
shall be an adult occupant of the protected premises;
   (B)   The type of premises (home, office, or other) and any business name by
which the premises are known;
   (C)   The address of the protected premises, including, if the premises are
in a multiple unit residential, commercial, or industrial structure or complex,
any name by which the structure or complex is commonly known;
   (D)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers, including home phone
numbers, of all agents having authority or responsibility with respect to the
structure or complex;
   (E)   If the alarm system component consists of automatic dialers, the
number and type thereof, the location of all remote annunciators, and the names
and telephone numbers of all persons or businesses which are or may be
preselected for automatic dialer contact;
   (F)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person with whom the
owner or lessee has contracted for maintenance of the alarm system;
   (G)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of those persons (not less
than two) who can be contacted by the Consolidated Communications Center 24
hours a day and seven days a week to turn off or deactivate the alarm system;
and
   (H)   A statement that the owner or lessee, in consideration of the issuance
of the requested permit, has read and agrees to be bound by the terms of this
article.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-15 SAME; FEES.
   (A)   If an alarm system component is to be connected to an alarm panel in
the Consolidated Communications Center:
      (1)   The application for an alarm system permit shall be accompanied by
a connection fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code; and
      (2)   The owner or lessee shall pay annually, in addition, a maintenance
and monitoring fee in the provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code. The latter fee shall be payable, in the
first instance, with the application, but no connection fee shall be payable by
owners or lessees of an alarm system component which is connected to the alarm
panel at the time of enactment of this article.
   (B)   If the alarm component is an automatic dialer to be interconnected to
a telephone in the Consolidated Communications Center, or is a system which
provides for a third party relay of calls to such a telephone, the owner or
lessee shall pay to the Consolidated Communications Center annually a
monitoring fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code, and a fee in such amount shall be paid, in
the first instance, with the application for a permit.
   (C)   If a permit shall be issued, fees which accompanied the application
shall be retained; otherwise, they shall be refunded.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to alarm system components owned or
leased by the city or other public law enforcement officials or departments.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-16 SAME; INVESTIGATION; PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of the permit application and fee, if any, the Fire Chief or
Fire Code Official shall cause to be made such investigation as he or she deems
necessary. If it appears to the Fire Chief or Fire Code Official that the
proposed system will comply with the provisions of this article, he or she
shall cause the Director to issue to the applicant a permit bearing an
identifying number, specifying the alarm system for which it is issued, and
setting forth the expiration date of the permit. Provided, a permit to
interconnect a component of an alarm system situated outside the corporate
limits of the city with an alarm panel or telephone(s) of the city shall not
issue unless the Fire Chief shall find in writing that such connection will not
overburden the Department’s alarm system during the period of the permit.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-17 SAME; PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   Alarm systems permits shall not be extendable or renewable as a matter of
right beyond the period for which a maintenance or monitoring fee has been paid
as provided in this article.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-18 ALARM SYSTEMS; INSPECTION.
   The Fire Chief or Fire Code Official may inspect, or cause to be inspected,
any alarm system for which a permit is required or for which a permit has been
issued, for the purpose of ascertaining that information furnished by the
application or permittee is correct, and that a system for which a permit has
been issued is being maintained in conformance with the requirements of this
article.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-19 VENDORS; DUTIES.
   Any vendor installing or maintaining an alarm system shall cause such
installation or maintenance to conform to the requirements of this code and to
the Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-20 PERMIT HOLDER; INSTALLATION; MAINTENANCE.
   The holder of an alarm system permit shall, at all times, be responsible for
the proper installation, maintenance, and repair of the system, including, but
not limited to, design features, method of installation, the repair or
replacement of any component, or any condition which may give rise to a false
alarm.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-21 SAME; TRAINING.
   The holder of an alarm system permit shall be responsible for training and
retraining all employees, family members, and other persons who may make
regular use of the protected premises and who may, in the normal course of
their activities, be in a position to accidentally trigger a sensor. Such
training shall include procedures and practices to avoid accidental alarms, and
steps to follow in the event the system is accidentally triggered.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-22 SAME; CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Within the ten days following any change of circumstances which render
obsolete any of the information submitted on an application for an alarm
systems permit, the holder of the permit shall file an amendment to his or her
application setting forth the currently accurate information. No additional fee
shall be required, unless the change is of such character that the permit is no
longer applicable to the alarm system for which the permit was issued.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-23 ALARM; NOTIFICATION OF OWNER OR LESSEE; RESPONSE BY OWNER OR LESSEE. 
   Upon receiving an emergency alarm signal, the Fire Chief or Fire Code
Official shall promptly cause the owner or lessee, or his or her authorized
representative, to be notified thereof by telephone, if reasonably possible,
and the owner or lessee or his or her authorized representative, shall
immediately come to the premises in person.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-24 ALARM SYSTEM; USE; GENERAL.
   No alarm system shall be activated or used except for the purpose of
summoning Fire Department personnel for emergency or life hazard situations.
The foregoing sentence shall not be construed to prevent the testing of said
alarm system by qualified personnel as provided in the Fire Prevention Code and
statutes of the state.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-25 FALSE ALARM; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, a fire
alarm known, or which in the exercise of reasonable care should be known, to be
false.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-26 SAME; PRESUMPTION.
   If fire units, responding to an alarm and checking the premises according to
standard operating procedure, do not discover any evidence of a fire, or
immediately recent fire, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the alarm
was false.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-27 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article, or the failure to comply with
any written notice served as provided in this article, is a Class II violation.
Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-28 ALARM SYSTEM; ZONES PROHIBITED.
   Fire alarm systems must display the addressable device alias at the panel
and any annunciators, rather than identifying only a zone.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-29 ALARM SYSTEM; ANNUNCIATOR LOCATION(S).
   Sprinkler systems with more than one zone must have a fire alarm annunciator
present in the vicinity of the main sprinkler riser zone valves in addition to
any others required by code.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 8-3-30 ALARM SYSTEM; MAIN PANEL REPLACEMENT.
   When a fire alarm control panel is replaced or added to an existing fire
alarm system, the entire alarm system shall meet the requirements of a new
system, including device locations and visual device requirements as outlined
in the currently adopted fire and life safety codes and this article.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 9: HEALTH
Section
   
9-1-1   Health officer; defined
   
9-1-2   Premises; unhealthful conditions and situations; prohibited; nuisance
   
9-1-3   Entry; inspection; health officers; power
   
9-1-4   Food; sale; storage; distribution; sanitary requirements; general
   
9-1-5   Same; owner; person in charge; duties; liabilities
   
9-1-6   Quiet zones; creation
   
9-1-7   Same; signs
   
9-1-8   Repealed
   
9-1-9   Excrement; similar substances; removal; waterproof container; required
   
9-1-10   Violations; penalties
Statutory reference:
   City health regulations, see Neb. RS 16-231 and 16-240
§ 9-1-1 HEALTH OFFICER; DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the term HEALTH OFFICER shall include such
employees of the city as the City Manager shall designate, or other persons or
agencies with whom the city may contract, to perform the duties described in
this chapter.
§ 9-1-2 PREMISES; UNHEALTHFUL CONDITIONS AND SITUATIONS; PROHIBITED; NUISANCE.
   No person in the city shall create, maintain, or permit, on any lot, yard,
building parking, or sidewalk, or the area abutting thereon, to the center of
the street, or to the center of the alley, owned, occupied, or controlled by
him or her, or for which he or she is agent, or who has charge thereof for the
owner, any condition or situation endangering, or tending to endanger, the
public health; and any such condition or situation is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 9-1-3 ENTRY; INSPECTION; HEALTH OFFICERS; POWER.
   The health officers of the city shall have the power in the performance of
their duties, at all reasonable times, to go upon, enter, and inspect all
premises, buildings, or structures within the city, and to inspect all
furniture, fixtures, machinery, implements, utensils, equipment, supplies,
materials, goods, stock in trade, foods, foodstuffs, beverages, animals, and
poultry within the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 9-1-4 FOOD; SALE; STORAGE; DISTRIBUTION; SANITARY REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL.
   The floors, side walls, ceilings, furniture, fixtures, machinery implements,
and utensils of every establishment or place where food is sold, stored, or
distributed, or kept for sale, shall at no time be kept in an unclean,
unhealthy, or unsanitary condition. For the purposes of the foregoing
provision, unclean, unhealthy, and unsanitary conditions shall be deemed to
exist if food therein stored, kept for sale, sold, or distributed is not
securely protected from flies, dust, dirt, and as far as may be necessary, by
all reasonable means from all other foreign or injurious contamination; and if
the clothing of operatives, employees, clerks, or other persons therein
employed is unclean.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 9-1-5 SAME; OWNER; PERSON IN CHARGE; DUTIES; LIABILITIES.
   All duties necessary to be performed in order to avoid the prohibited
conditions referred to in §
9-1-4 of this chapter, shall devolve upon the owner or other person in actual
charge of any such food establishment, and any failure of any such food
establishment to meet with the requirements of such section shall be deemed a
violation thereof by such owner or other person in charge thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 9-1-6 QUIET ZONES; CREATION.
   The City Council, whenever it shall determine by resolution that the
creation of a quiet zone or zones in the vicinity of a hospital, convalescent
or nursing home, home for the aged, or other institution for the care of
persons would promote the health, safety, recovery, or welfare of persons in
such institution, by resolution, may designate streets, alleys, or other public
places, or parts thereof, in the vicinity of such institution as a quiet zone.
Such a resolution, if adopted, shall become effective upon its passage,
approval, and publication in the minutes of the City Council meeting, unless
otherwise provided in the resolution.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1995, passed - -1973)
§ 9-1-7 SAME; SIGNS.
   Quiet zones, when established, shall be clearly marked with appropriate
signs marked “quiet zone”. Such signs shall be located near the curb in a
conspicuous position at intervals of not more than 200 feet.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1995, passed - -1973)
§ 9-1-8 REPEALED.
§ 9-1-9 EXCREMENT; SIMILAR SUBSTANCES; REMOVAL; WATERPROOF CONTAINER; REQUIRED.
   All tanks or other appliances used for the removal of excrement and other
substances taken from cesspools and grease traps to the place of deposit shall
be waterproof, so as to prevent the escape of any such matter in the process of
removal.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 9-1-10 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation.
CHAPTER 10: LIBRARY
Section
   
10-1-1   Public library; established; name
   
10-1-2   Use; free; exceptions
   
10-1-3   Rules; regulations; penalties; adoption
   
10-1-4   Same; violators; exclusion from library use
   
10-1-5   Same; penalties
   
10-1-6   Circulating libraries; private collections; use; care
   
10-1-7   Donations to library; tax exemption
   
10-1-8   Destruction of property; penalty
Statutory reference:
   City libraries, see Neb. RS 16-251
§ 10-1-1 PUBLIC LIBRARY; ESTABLISHED; NAME.
   There is hereby established in the city a public library and reading room,
which shall be forever kept and maintained by such city and shall be known as
the Scottsbluff Public Library. Whenever in this municipal code there shall be
used the term “public library”, the same shall be held to mean the Scottsbluff
Public Library and to include both the library and the reading room.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 10-1-2 USE; FREE; EXCEPTIONS.
   The public library shall be forever free to the use of the inhabitants of
the city, subject to the restrictions referred to hereinafter.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 10-1-3 RULES; REGULATIONS; PENALTIES; ADOPTION.
   The Library Board shall recommend to the City Council bylaws and
regulations, or changes in bylaws and regulations, for the protection and
government of the public library. The City Council, before adopting any
proposed bylaw and regulation for the protection and government of the public
library which shall not have originated with and been recommended by the
Library Board, shall refer such proposed bylaw or regulation to the Library
Board for its recommendations; and such bylaws and regulations shall not be
adopted sooner than 60 days after a copy thereof shall have been delivered to
the secretary of the Library Board.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1698, passed - -1968)
§ 10-1-4 SAME; VIOLATORS; EXCLUSION FROM LIBRARY USE.
   The Library Director may exclude from the use of the public library any
person who shall willfully violate or refuse to comply with the rules and
regulations established for the government thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2693, passed - -1981)
§ 10-1-5 SAME; PENALTIES.
   Penalties imposed or accruing under any bylaw or regulation adopted by the
City Council may be recovered in a civil action before any court having
jurisdiction. Such action shall be instituted in the name of the city. This
remedy shall be cumulative of that provided in §
10-1-8 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1698, passed - -1968)
§ 10-1-6 CIRCULATING LIBRARIES; PRIVATE COLLECTIONS; USE; CARE.
   The Library Director, with the consent in writing of the City Manager, shall
have power to authorize any circulating library, reading matter, or work of art
of any private person, association, or corporation to be deposited in the
public library rooms to be used within the reading room in the same manner as
the books and property of the public library; provided, such circulating
library, reading matter, or work of art may be drawn upon and used outside of
the reading room only on payment of such fees or acquisition of such membership
as the person, corporation, or association owning the same may prescribe.
Provided, the books or other reading matter so deposited in the rooms of the
public library shall be separately and distinctly marked, and kept upon shelves
apart from the books of the public library.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1698, passed - -1968; Ord. 2693, passed - -
1981)
§ 10-1-7 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY; TAX EXEMPTION.
   Any person may make any donation of money, lands, or property for the
benefit of the public library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the city for the public library, and such property thereafter
shall be exempt from taxation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 10-1-8 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take or retain possession of, or to
remove from the public library building, in violation of any bylaw or
regulation adopted by the City Council for the protection and government of the
public library, or to willfully and maliciously write upon, deface, injure, or
destroy any book, periodical, record, film, or other property owned by or in
the custody of the public library. A violation of any provision of this chapter
is a Class II violation. ; Occupation Taxes; Regulations
CHAPTER 11: LICENSES; OCCUPATION TAXES; REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   LICENSES
      
2.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
3.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
4.   GAS RATE REGULATION
      
5.   CABLE TELEVISION
ARTICLE 1: LICENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
11-1-1   Licenses; term; generally
   
11-1-2   Violations; classification
   
11-1-3– 11-1-5   Reserved
Alcoholic Liquor
   
11-1-6   Definitions
   
11-1-7   License; required
   
11-1-8   Repealed
   
11-1-9   Repealed
   
11-1-10   Sales; hours; generally
   
11-1-11   Same; Sunday
   
11-1-12   Closed hours; presence during
   
11-1-13   Same; notice of; display
   
11-1-14   Premises; design; area
   
11-1-15   Same; interior view; obstructions; prohibited; lighting; required
   
11-1-16   License; display
   
11-1-17   Liquor; sale in original package
   
11-1-18   Minors; sales by; prohibited
   
11-1-19   Non-beverage user; alcoholic; disposition; beverage purposes;
prohibited
   
11-1-20   Officers; directors; managers; agents; employees; violations by;
liability
   
11-1-21   Premises; entry; inspection; police officers; power
   
11-1-22   Same; health officer; power
   
11-1-23   Nudity; sexual acts or simulated sexual acts; prohibited
   
11-1-24   Licensee or employees; drinking while on duty prohibited
   
11-1-25 – 11-1-27   Reserved
Bingo
   
11-1-28   Definitions
   
11-1-29   Permit
   
11-1-30   Tax; when due
   
11-1-31   Report; when due; contents
   
11-1-32    – 11-1-35Reserved
Carnivals
   
11-1-36   Carnival and civic organization; permit
   
11-1-37   Restrictions
   
11-1-38   Permit; application; time
   
11-1-39   Permit; application; contents
   
11-1-40   Permit; decision; time
   
11-1-41   Permit; insurance; bond
   
11-1-42   Permit; denial
   
11-1-43   Permit; contents
   
11-1-44   Alternate permit
   
11-1-45   Permit; notice
   
11-1-46   Permittee; compliance
   
11-1-47   Permit; revocation
   
11-1-48    – 11-1-59Reserved
Repealed
   
11-1-60    – 11-1-64Reserved
Pawnbrokers
   
11-1-65   Definitions
   
11-1-66   Permit; application; bond; required
   
11-1-67   Same; issuance; term
   
11-1-68   Same; revocation
   
11-1-69   Property receivable; from person not owner; prohibited
   
11-1-70   Statutory requirements; compliance; required
   
11-1-71    – 11-1-75Reserved
Public Dances
   
11-1-76   Public dance; defined
   
11-1-77   Public dances; license; required; exception
   
11-1-78   No licenses in “R” zones
   
11-1-79   Licenses may not be assigned
   
11-1-80   License; application; form; contents
   
11-1-81   Issued; when; referral to City Manager
   
11-1-81.1   Decision by City Manager
   
11-1-81.2   Revocation or suspension of license
   
11-1-81.3   Hearing by City Manager; notice
   
11-1-81.4   Conduct of hearing; decision
Alcoholic Liquor; License Application; Hearing
   
11-1-82   Licenses; proceedings of City Council
   
11-1-83   Notice of hearing
   
11-1-84   Hearing; form; presiding officer; appearance of applicant
   
11-1-85   Same; testimony; other evidence; cross-examination
   
11-1-86   Same; order of proceeding
   
11-1-87   Liquor application; retail licensing standards
   
11-1-88   Agent for special designated license
   
11-1-89    – 11-1-90Reserved
Peddling
   
11-1-91   Peddling; regulating; permit; required; exceptions
   
11-1-92   Application
   
11-1-93   Same; investigation; permit; issuance
   
11-1-94   Same; fees
   
11-1-95   Same; permit; denial
   
11-1-96   Same; permit; revocation
   
11-1-97    – 11-1-100Reserved
Solicitations
   
11-1-101   Soliciting; statement; filing; exceptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 11-1-1 LICENSES; TERM; GENERALLY.
   No license granted under any provision of this municipal code shall continue
in force or effect after the expiration of the municipal year in which such
license was granted, unless otherwise specifically directed by ordinance,
resolution, or motion of the City Council, or unless such license is palpably
permanent in nature and so intended to be, as indicated by the enabling action
taken by the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-2 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation.
§§ 11-1-3 – 11-1-5 RESERVED.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
§ 11-1-6 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases used in this
subchapter shall have the meaning as defined in the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-7 LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter, or exchange, under any pretext, any alcoholic liquor within
the city, unless such person shall have in full force and effect a license
therefor as provided by the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-8 REPEALED.
§ 11-1-9 REPEALED.
§ 11-1-10 SALES; HOURS; GENERALLY.
   No alcoholic liquors, including beer, shall be sold at retail or dispensed
on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 3004, passed - -1986)
§ 11-1-11 SAME; SUNDAY.
   In addition to the restriction set forth in §
11-1-10 of this subchapter, no alcoholic liquor, other than beer or wine, shall
be sold at retail or dispensed on Sunday between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:
00 p.m. Alcoholic liquor may be sold at retail or dispensed on Sunday after 12:
00 p.m.
(Ord. 3235, passed - -1992)
§ 11-1-12 CLOSED HOURS; PRESENCE DURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be or remain, or for any person
holding a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, or any officer, director,
agent, or employee of such person, to permit any person to be or remain on the
licensed premises later than 15 minutes after the time when such liquor may
lawfully be sold, and prior to the time when it again may be lawfully sold on
the premises. Provided, this section shall not be construed to prohibit
presence on the premises during such period of the person holding the license,
or of any officer, director, agent, or employee of such person, while such
person is lawfully engaged in some aspect of the business authorized by the
license, or to the owners or employees of other businesses while making
business deliveries to the premises or performing business services on the
premises. Provided, further, this section shall not apply to restaurants,
clubs, or hotels as defined in the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, or to motels,
billiard or pool halls, bowling alleys, or grocery stores.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1767, passed - -1969)
§ 11-1-13 SAME; NOTICE OF; DISPLAY.
   Every holder of a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail shall
keep displayed in a conspicuous place upon the licensed premises a notice to
the public of the hours during which alcoholic liquor may not be sold and, as
the case may be, consumed on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1767, passed - -1969)
§ 11-1-14 PREMISES; DESIGN; AREA.
   No person holding a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
within the city shall sell, or permit the consumption of, alcoholic liquor in
any room not provided with a public entrance at the front thereof, opening upon
a public street; provided, this restriction shall not apply to restaurants,
clubs, or hotels as defined in the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS
53-101 et seq., or to motels or grocery stores. The room required by this
section shall contain a minimum of 500 square feet of area available for the
use of customers exclusively.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1767, passed - -1969)
§ 11-1-15 SAME; INTERIOR VIEW; OBSTRUCTIONS; PROHIBITED; LIGHTING; REQUIRED.
   In premises within the city upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises is licensed, other than restaurants, hotels, or
clubs, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article, or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such premises, and no booth,
screen, wall, partition, or other obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights
shall be permitted in or about the interior of such licensed premises which
shall prevent a full and clear view of the entire interior of such premises
from the streets, road, or sidewalks. All rooms wherein alcoholic liquors are
sold shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural or
artificial light.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-16 LICENSE; DISPLAY.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act within the city shall
cause his or her license or licenses to be framed and hung in plain public view
in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-17 LIQUOR; SALE IN ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession within
the city any alcoholic liquor for sale in bottles, casks, or other containers,
except the original package with unbroken mark and stamp for tax as provided by
law.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1767, passed - -1969)
§ 11-1-18 MINORS; SALES BY; PROHIBITED.
   Minors shall not be permitted to participate in the sale or dispensing of
any beer or other alcoholic beverage, except as permitted by the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
(Ord. 3571, passed - -1998)
§ 11-1-19 NON-BEVERAGE USER; ALCOHOLIC; DISPOSITION; BEVERAGE PURPOSES;
PROHIBITED.
   No non-beverage user shall sell, give away, or otherwise dispose of any
alcohol purchased under a license as such non-beverage user, in any form fit
for beverage purposes.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-20 OFFICERS; DIRECTORS; MANAGERS; AGENTS; EMPLOYEES; VIOLATIONS BY;
LIABILITY.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this subchapter, by any officer, director, manager, or
other agent or employee of any licensee, if such act is committed or omission
is made with the authorization, knowledge, or approval of the licensee, shall
be deemed and held to be the act of such employer or licensee, and such
employer or licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or
omission had been done or omitted by him or her personally.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-21 PREMISES; ENTRY; INSPECTION; POLICE OFFICERS; POWER.
   All police officers of the city are hereby authorized to enter at any time
upon any premises of any licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act within
the city to determine whether any of the provisions of such Act or of this
subchapter, or any rules or regulations adopted by the city or by State Liquor
Control Commission have been or are being violated and at such time to examine
sufficiently such premises of such licensee in connection therewith.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-22 SAME; HEALTH OFFICER; POWER.
   Any premises of any licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall be
open to inspection by any health officer of the city at any time during which
such premises are open to the public for business.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-23 NUDITY; SEXUAL ACTS OR SIMULATED SEXUAL ACTS; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. to appear or to allow any live person
to appear, in any licensed premises in a state of nudity while providing
entertainment, providing service, acting as hostess, manager, or owner, or
serving as an employee in any capacity. For the purpose of this division (A),
the term NUDITY shall mean the showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, or buttocks, or the human female breast including the nipple or any
portion below the nipple with less than a full opaque covering.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act to perform or to allow any live person to perform on the licensed
premises acts of or acts which simulate:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, flagellation, or any sexual acts which are prohibited by law;
      (2)   The touching, caressing, or fondling on the breast, buttocks, anus,
or genitals; or
      (3)   The displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva, or genitals.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act to show or allow to be shown on the licensed premises any film,
video, still picture, electronic reproduction, or other visual reproductions
depicting:
      (1)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy,
bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any other sexual acts;
      (2)   Any person being touched, caressed, or fondled on the breast,
buttocks, anus, or genitals;
      (3)   Scenes wherein a person displays the vulva or the anus or the
genitals; and/or
      (4)   Scenes wherein artificial devices or inanimate objects are employed
to depict, or drawings are employed to portray, any of the prohibited
activities described above.
(Ord. 3610, passed - -1999)
§ 11-1-24 LICENSEE OR EMPLOYEES; DRINKING WHILE ON DUTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, manager, or employee of any licensee
to consume any alcoholic liquor during the time such person is on duty and in
the conduct of their business; and it shall be unlawful for any licensee,
manager, or employee to serve or sell alcoholic liquor while under the
influence of such liquor.
(Ord. 3967, passed - -2008; Ord. 4045, passed - -2011)
§§ 11-1-25 – 11-1-27 RESERVED.
BINGO
§ 11-1-28 DEFINITIONS.
   The purposes of this article, the words “bingo”, “gross receipts”,
“license”, and “licensed organization” shall have the same meaning as those
terms are defined in the Nebraska Bingo Act, being Neb. RS 9-201 et seq.
§ 11-1-29 PERMIT.
   Bingo shall not be conducted within the city except by an organization
licensed by the state to conduct bingo. A licensed organization licensed to
conduct bingo within the city shall first obtain a bingo permit from the City
Clerk. An annual permit fee in the amount provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of
this code shall be paid prior to the issuance of a bingo permit. All permits
shall expire on September 30 of each year. The bingo permit shall be displayed
conspicuously at the place where bingo is conducted at all times during the
conduct thereof.
(Ord. 3629, passed - -1999)
§ 11-1-30 TAX; WHEN DUE.
   There is hereby imposed a tax of 2% on the gross receipts received from the
conducting of bingo within the city. This tax shall be credited to the general
fund of the city. Each licensed organization conducting bingo within the city
shall pay the amount of the tax to the City Clerk on a quarterly basis, not
later than 30 days from the close of the preceding calendar quarter. All
deficiencies of the tax shall accrue interest and be subject to a penalty as
required for sales and use taxes in the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967, being
Neb. RS Chapter 77, Article 27. If any person fails to pay the tax when due,
the city may recover the same in a civil action brought against such person.
This remedy shall be cumulative with any other remedy provided by law.
§ 11-1-31 REPORT; WHEN DUE; CONTENTS.
   The licensed organization shall submit written reports to the City Clerk.
Each report shall cover the immediately preceding calendar quarter and shall be
due not less than 30 days from the close of the preceding quarter. The report
shall include a detailed financial statement of each separate session of bingo
conducted under the permit for the period of the report, declared on a form
which may be prescribed by the Governor of Nebraska, but which in any event
shall be sufficiently detailed so that an examination thereof will permit a
determination of whether the provisions of this article have been complied
with. It shall be unlawful for any person to submit a false report.
§§ 11-1-32 – 11-1-35 RESERVED.
CARNIVALS
§ 11-1-36 CARNIVAL AND CIVIC ORGANIZATION; PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association, or corporation, to
set up, show, or operate within the city any combination of rides, shows, and
exhibits, commonly known as a “carnival”, except under contract with and the
general supervision of a nonprofit civic organization which has its principal
office within the city and holds a permit from the City Manager to conduct the
carnival.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-37 RESTRICTIONS.
   No carnival may be conducted unless as determined by the City Manager as
provided in this article:
   (A)   The carnival will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly
movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic on any street or part of a street
adjacent to the premises on which the carnival is to be conducted;
   (B)   The carnival will not require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers of the city to properly police the area so as to prevent normal
police protection to the city;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, equipment, vehicles, and merchandise
will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or
ambulance service to, the area or other areas of the city;
   (D)   Adequate public toilet facilities are available; and
   (E)   The carnival is not reasonably likely to cause injury to persons or
property, or to disturb the peace and quiet of the occupants of residence
areas, or to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-38 PERMIT; APPLICATION; TIME.
   A civic organization seeking a permit for a carnival shall file an
application with the City Manager on forms provided by such officer. The
application shall be filed not less than 14 days nor more than 60 days before
the date on which it is proposed to commence the carnival, provided, the City
Manager, where good cause is shown therefore, may consider an application which
has been filed less than 14 days before the date the carnival would commence.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-39 PERMIT; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   The application for a carnival permit shall set forth:
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the association or
organization seeking to conduct the carnival;
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be the
carnival chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
   (C)   The date(s) when the carnival is to be conducted;
   (D)   The location(s) at which the carnival will be conducted;
   (E)   The name and address of the owner of the carnival and a description,
in such form as the City Manager shall prescribe, of the carnival;
   (F)   The name and address of the owner and lessee, if any, of the premises
on which the carnival is to be conducted; and
   (G)   Such additional information as the City Manager shall find reasonably
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should issue.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-40 PERMIT; DECISION; TIME.
   The City Manager shall act upon the application for a carnival permit within
ten days after the filing thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-41 PERMIT; INSURANCE; BOND.
   (A)   No permit to conduct a carnival shall issue until the applicant shall
furnish to the City Clerk written evidence that a public liability insurance
policy in amounts of not less than $800,000 for one person, $2,000,000 for any
one accident, and $200,000 for injuries to property; including as a beneficiary
the city; and containing such other provisions as the City Council may
prescribe, shall be in force during, and for 24 hours before and after, the
carnival.
   (B)   In addition, no permit to conduct a carnival shall issue until the
applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk a surety bond to the city, to be
approved by the City Clerk, in the sum of $2,500, or in lieu thereof cash in
that amount, conditioned that no damage will be done to streets or to sewer,
water, electrical, or other equipment or property of the city, and that no
dirt, paper, litter, or other debris will be permitted to remain upon the
sidewalk, streets, or alleys or any adjacent private property.
§ 11-1-42 PERMIT; DENIAL.
   If the City Manager denies the application, he or she shall mail or deliver
to the applicant on the date of the denial a notice in writing of the denial,
stating the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-43 PERMIT; CONTENTS.
   Each carnival permit shall state the following:
   (A)   The date(s) of the carnival;
   (B)   The location of the carnival; and
   (C)   Such other information as the City Manager shall determine to be
necessary or desirable in order to effect compliance with this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-44 ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   The City Manager, upon denying an application for a carnival permit, shall
be empowered to authorize the conduct of the carnival on a date, at a time or
place, or on other conditions different from those specified in the
application. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within
24 hours after notice of the action of the City Manager, file a written notice
of acceptance with the City Manager. An alternate carnival permit shall conform
to the requirements for, and shall have the effect of a carnival permit under,
this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-45 PERMIT; NOTICE.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a carnival permit, the City Manager shall
so inform the Police Chief and the Fire Chief, and he or she shall so inform
the City Council at its next regular meeting.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-46 PERMITTEE; COMPLIANCE.
   The association or organization to which a carnival permit has been issued
shall comply with all permit directions and conditions and with all applicable
laws and ordinances.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1194, passed - -1977)
§ 11-1-47 PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   The City Manager shall have authority to revoke a carnival permit if he or
she finds that the standards for issuance set forth in this article will not,
or probably will not, be substantially met, or that the permittee has willfully
or negligently failed to comply with the requirements of this article in any
substantial respect. The City Manager, on the date of revocation of a permit,
shall deliver or mail to the permittee a notice in writing of the revocation,
stating the reason therefor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2294, passed - -1977)
§§ 11-1-48 – 11-1-59 RESERVED.
REPEALED
§§ 11-1-60 – 11-1-64 RESERVED.
PAWNBROKERS
§ 11-1-65 DEFINITIONS.
   Any person engaged in the business of lending money upon chattel property
for security and requiring possession of the property so mortgaged on condition
of returning the same upon payment of a stipulated amount of money, or
purchasing property on condition of selling it back at a stipulated price,
shall be deemed to be a pawnbroker.
(Ord. 2873, passed - -1984)
§ 11-1-66 PERMIT; APPLICATION; BOND; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to engage in the business of
pawnbroking without having first obtained a permit, and given a bond in the sum
of $5,000 as required in Neb. RS 69-202 as now existing or hereafter amended,
provided, if the pawnbroker also is engaged in a business other than that of a
pawnbroker as defined in this article, which other business is of a type that
would constitute the person, firm, or corporation so engaged a dealer in
secondhand goods, the pawnbroker, at his or her election, may in lieu of giving
both a bond as a pawnbroker as provided above and a separate bond as a dealer
in secondhand goods as provided in §
11-1-66 of this subchapter, give a single bond in the aggregate amount of
$6,000, conditioned, to the extent of $5,000 as provided in Neb. RS 69-202, as
now existing or hereafter amended, and also conditioned, to the extent of
$1,000, as provided in §
11-1-66 of this subchapter. The fee for a pawnbroker’s permit, which shall be
payable also on renewal of the permit, shall be as provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code. If a permit holder moves the location of the
business, a new permit may be issued authorizing the permit holder to engage in
the business of pawnbrokering at the new address. Such a permit shall be
referred to as a new address permit and shall expire on the same date that the
original permit would have expired. The fee for a new address permit shall be
as provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3462, passed - -1995)
§ 11-1-67 SAME; ISSUANCE; TERM.
   Upon the filing and approval of the bond, the City Clerk shall issue a
permit, signed by such City Clerk and attested by the seal of the city, which
shall, unless revoked, remain in effect until April 30 next following.
(Ord. 2873, passed - -1984)
§ 11-1-68 SAME; REVOCATION.
   In the event any holder of such a permit, or an agent or employee of such
holder, shall violate or neglect or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of this subchapter, the permit may be revoked by the City Council after
reasonable notice and hearing.
(Ord. 2873, passed - -1984)
§ 11-1-69 PROPERTY RECEIVABLE; FROM PERSON NOT OWNER; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker knowingly to receive or pawn or
deposit any personal property of any kind from any person not the owner
thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-70 STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS; COMPLIANCE; REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of all persons who engage in business as pawnbrokers to
comply with all requirements, applicable to such persons, which are prescribed
in the state statutes as now existing or hereafter amended, in addition to the
requirements specified in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2888, passed - -1984)
§§ 11-1-71 – 1-1-75 RESERVED.
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 11-1-76 PUBLIC DANCE; DEFINED.
   A PUBLIC DANCE is a social gathering where dancing is permitted and to which
the public is admitted.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -2008)
§ 11-1-77 PUBLIC DANCES; LICENSE; REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   No person, shall sponsor, or permit on premises of which he or she has
possession, any public dance without first obtaining therefor a license as
hereinafter provided. Provided, this requirement shall not apply to any person
who has an appropriate license issued pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act to sell and offer for sale at retail alcohol or beer for use or consumption
on the premises; and any charitable, religious, educational, fraternal, civic,
or other nonprofit organizations or associations not formed for the purpose of
evading this section.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -2008)
§ 11-1-78 NO LICENSES IN “R” ZONES.
   No license for a public dance shall be issued for premises within any “R”
zone.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -2008)
§ 11-1-79 LICENSE MAY NOT BE ASSIGNED.
   All such dance licenses shall be purely personal privileges and shall not be
assignable.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -2008)
§ 11-1-80 LICENSE; APPLICATION; FORM; CONTENTS.
   Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk setting forth
the name of the applicant, the dates upon which a dance or dances are to be
held, a description of the premises upon which said dance or dances will be
held, together with the statement of the applicant that he or she will not
violate or permit the violation of any law of the state, or any provision of
this municipal code upon the licensed premises. The application shall be
accompanied by the fee provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code. The
license may be for one or more days, for a period of six months, or for a
period of one year.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -2008)
§ 11-1-81 ISSUED; WHEN; REFERRAL TO CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall issue such license only after the Chief Building
Inspector or his or her designee certifies that the premises in regard to which
such application made is in conformity with the fire, sanitation, health, and
safety ordinances and regulations of the city; the Police Chief certifies that
he or she has no objection to the granting of the license; and the City Clerk
has received from the public no objections to the proposed license or
complaints about previous public dances at the premises for which the license
is requested or sponsored by the applicant for the license.
   (B)   If the City Clerk cannot issue such license for any reason specified
in division (A) above other than failure to pay the fee, the City Clerk shall
refer the matter to the City Manager who shall decide whether or not to issue
the license.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -2008)
§ 11-1-81.1 DECISION BY CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Manager shall issue the license when and only when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that the conduct of the public dance is
not reasonably likely to cause injury to persons or property, to provoke
disorderly conduct or create a disturbance, or directly or indirectly causes
any unreasonable annoyance to other persons in the neighborhood of such
premises. In making this decision, the City Manager may consider the
recommendations of the Police Chief, past history of public dances at the
premises for which the license is requested or sponsored by the applicant for
the license, comments by members of the public, and any other information
reasonably related to the propriety of issuing the license.
   (B)   If the City Manager denies the application, he or she shall mail or
deliver to the applicant, on the date of the denial, a notice in writing of the
denial, stating the reasons therefor. The notice shall state that the applicant
may have a hearing before the City Manager, and that if a hearing is desired,
the request for a hearing shall be made in writing and must be delivered to the
City Manager or the City Clerk within ten days after the City Manager mailed or
delivered the notice of the denial.
§ 11-1-81.2 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued under this article may be revoked or suspended by
the City Manager upon finding that a dance on the licensed premises caused
injury to persons or property, provoked disorderly conduct or created a
disturbance, or directly or indirectly caused any unreasonable annoyance to
other persons in the neighborhood of such premises.
   (B)   If the City Manager revokes or suspends a license, he or she shall
mail or deliver to the applicant, on the date of the revocation or suspension,
a notice in writing of the revocation or suspension. Such notice shall state
the reasons therefor. The notice shall state that the applicant may have a
hearing before the City Manager, and that if a hearing is desired by the
applicant, the request for a hearing shall be made in writing and must be
delivered to the City Manager or the City Clerk within ten days after the City
Manager mailed or delivered the notice of the denial.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -2008)
§ 11-1-81.3 HEARING BY CITY MANAGER; NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a timely written request for hearing as provided in
this article, either on the subject of the refusal to grant a license or the
subject of the revocation or suspension of a license, the City Manager shall
set a date, time, and place for a hearing, and shall give notice to the
applicant who requested the hearing. Such notice shall be given no less than
seven days before the date of the hearing.
   (B)   Such notice shall advise the applicant:
      (1)   Of the date, time, and place of the hearing;
      (2)   That he or she may be represented by an attorney; and
      (3)   At the hearing, the city and the interested party may present
evidence relevant to the question of whether the license should be granted or
revoked ro suspended, as the case may be.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -2008)
§ 11-1-81.4 CONDUCT OF HEARING; DECISION.
   The City Manager shall preside at such hearing. The interested party who
requested a hearing may be represented by an attorney. If deemed necessary or
appropriate by the City Manager, the City Attorney or Deputy City Attorney
shall represent the city. The city shall first present the reasons supporting
the refusal to grant the license, or the revocation or suspension, as the case
may be. The applicant may then present evidence in opposition to such order and
determination. The Nebraska Evidence Rules shall not be in effect at such
hearing. The City Manager may allow the parties or their attorneys to argue the
matter after the reception of evidence. The City Manager shall make a written
decision within seven days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall notify
the parties of such decision in writing. Any appeal from the decision of the
City Manager shall be to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3976, passed - -2008)
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR; LICENSE APPLICATION; HEARING
§ 11-1-82 LICENSES; PROCEEDINGS OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The sections in this subchapter shall apply to proceedings before and by the
City Council on applications for a license to sell alcoholic liquors at retail
within the city, for upgrading of a license, or for expansion or change in
location of the premises, pursuant to provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
(Ord. 3130, passed - -1989)
§ 11-1-83 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The City Clerk, in addition to causing a notice of the hearing on the
application by the City Council to be published as provided in the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, shall cause a copy of such notice to be delivered to
applicant, or mailed to applicant in a postage prepaid envelope addressed to
applicant at the applicant’s address shown in the application, not later than
the date on which the notice is published. Two or more proceedings which the
City Clerk determines to be legally or factually related may be set for hearing
together, unless any party thereto (including the city) makes a showing
sufficient to satisfy the City Council that prejudice would result therefrom.
(Ord. 2973, passed - -1986)
§ 11-1-84 HEARING, FORM; PRESIDING OFFICER; APPEARANCE OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   The hearing shall be informal, conducted as an inquiry into facts and
not as an adversary proceeding. The Mayor, or in event of his or her absence or
disability, the Vice President of the City Council shall preside at the
hearing. The presiding officer shall have full authority to control the
procedures of the hearing, including the admission or exclusion of testimony or
other evidence, unless the City Council prior to the hearings being called to
order, shall vote that the presiding officer shall have a more limited
authority specified in the motion. The applicant shall appear at the hearing
prepared to answer questions relevant to the application. Such appearance shall
be made personally by the following:
      (1)   If applicant is an individual, by such individual;
      (2)   If applicant is a partnership, by not less than one of the
partners; or
      (3)   If applicant is a corporation, by not less than one managing
officer of the corporation whose authority will extend over the business to be
licensed.
   (B)   Failure to make such an appearance, unless the failure results from
circumstances reasonably
beyond the control of the applicant (as determined by the City Council), shall
constitute grounds for denying the application.
(Ord. 2977, passed - -1986)
§ 11-1-85 SAME; TESTIMONY; OTHER EVIDENCE; CROSS-EXAMINATION.
   (A)   The City Council and the parties shall not be bound by the strict
rules of evidence, but all witnesses shall be sworn. Testimony by a sworn
witness may be presented in narrative fashion or by question and answer.
Evidence may be received which possesses probative value and is commonly
accepted by reasonably prudent individuals. However, the presiding officer may
limit, or refuse to receive, testimony or other evidence which does not appear
to meet such a requirement, or which is otherwise irrelevant or unduly
repetitious.
   (B)   If there is opposition to the application (other than by a member or
members of the City Council or by the city’s administration), and such opponent
(s) desire(s) an opportunity to testify or to present other evidence, to
present arguments, or to cross-examine applicant and any witnesses favoring the
application, such opponents shall so notify the presiding officer prior to the
hearing and, if there shall be more than one such opponent, they shall select a
single spokesperson to present their arguments, or make such cross-examination,
and shall notify the presiding officer of such representation prior to the
hearing.
   (C)   Any member of the City Council, the City Attorney on behalf of the
city’s administration, or special attorney authorized to act in the stead of
the City Attorney, may question any witness, call witnesses, or request
information.
(Ord. 2973, passed - -1986)
§ 11-1-86 SAME; ORDER OF PROCEEDING.
   The order of proceeding shall be as follows:
   (A)   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the City Clerk or, if the
proceedings are being transcribed by a court reporter, by such reporter, and
shall be presented to the presiding officer during the presentation;
   (B)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by applicant;
   (C)   Testimony of any other citizens who favor the proposed license;
   (D)   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses, or citizens by spokesperson
for opposition, if any;
   (E)   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
   (F)   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to the proposed license;
   (G)   Presentation of evidence by city and non-city law enforcement
personnel;
   (H)   Cross-examination by applicant;
   (I)   Rebuttal evidence; and
   (J)   Summation by applicant; by opposition spokesperson, if any; if City
Council shall have retained special counsel to advise them, by the City
Attorney; or, if the City Attorney is functioning as an adviser to the City
Council and a special attorney shall have been authorized to act on behalf of
the city’s administration, by such special attorney.
(Ord. 2973, passed - -1986)
§ 11-1-87 LIQUOR APPLICATION; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS.
   For the purpose of taking any actions authorized by state statute, in
particular Neb. RS 53-134, the City Council or its agent shall consider those
criteria established by the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, in particular by Neb.
RS 53-124.11 and 53-134. In order to assist the City Council or its agent in
the consideration of those criteria, the city Police Department and Development
Services Department shall prepare reports to the City Council covering all of
the criteria and other matters which may be considered by the City Council or
its agent, and those reports shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to any
public hearings, and shall become a part of the record of the public hearing.
§ 11-1-88 AGENT FOR SPECIAL DESIGNATED LICENSE.
   The City Council now designates the City Manager as the agent to determine
whether a special designated license is to be approved or denied. The
determination of the agent shall be considered the determination of the City
Council unless otherwise provided by the City Council.
§§ 11-1-89 – 11-1-90 RESERVED.
PEDDLING
§ 11-1-91 PEDDLING; REGULATING; PERMIT; REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person traveling by foot, wagon,
automotive, or other type of vehicle from place to place, house to house, or
street to street, carrying or transporting goods, meats, fish, vegetables,
fruits, garden truck, farm products, or provisions, offering and exposing the
same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who,
without traveling from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale
from an automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle, or for anyone who
solicits orders and as a separate transaction, makes deliveries to purchasers,
without first obtaining a permit therefor as provided for in this article.
   (B)   Provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Properly authorized selling on behalf of established and organized
churches or other established and organized religious organizations, of any
educational institution or organized charity, or of societies incorporated
under the laws of the state; or
      (2)   Transactions exempt as constituting interstate commerce. Such
carrying or transporting shall be done only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to
10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-1-92 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Applicants for a permit required by §
11-1-91 of this subchapter shall file with the City Clerk a sworn application
in writing, on a form prescribed by the City Clerk, which shall include the
following information:
   (A)   Name, description, and address of applicant;
   (B)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and, in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown
by the applicant;
   (C)   If employed, the name and address of the employer; and
   (D)   Identification of any automotive vehicle to be used.
§ 11-1-93 SAME; INVESTIGATION; PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of such application, the Police Chief may cause such
investigation of the applicant’s moral character in business dealings to be
made as it deems necessary for the protection of the public with whom the
applicant may deal. If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant is
found to be a person who is of good moral character in business dealings, the
Police Chief shall issue a permit, addressed to the applicant, for the carrying
on of the business applied for and cause the permit, together with the
application, to be transmitted to the City Clerk, who shall, upon payment of
the prescribed permit fee, deliver the permit to the applicant. Such permit
shall contain the signature of the issuing officer and shall show the name and
address of the applicant, the kind of goods permitted to be sold thereunder,
the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time the permit
shall be operative, and the license number and other identifying description of
any vehicle used in such peddling. The Clerk shall keep a permanent record of
all permits issued.
§ 11-1-94 SAME; FEES.
   The fee for a permit for peddling shall be as provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3341, passed - -1994)
§ 11-1-95 SAME; PERMIT; DENIAL.
   If, as a result of such an investigation, the applicant is found not to be a
person who is of good moral character in business dealings, the Police Chief
shall cause to be endorsed upon the application the finding to that effect,
together with a statement of the reasons therefor, and shall cause the
application so endorsed to be transmitted to the City Clerk, who shall notify
the applicant that the application has been denied and that the requested
permit will not be issued.
§ 11-1-96 SAME; PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   Permits issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked by the
City Manager, after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application or made in the course of carrying on the permitted business as
peddler;
   (B)   Any violation of this article;
   (C)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude
(whether occurring before or after the permit is issued); or
   (D)   Conducting the business of peddling in an unlawful manner, or in such
manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the
health, safety, or general welfare of the public. Notice of the hearing for
revocation of a license shall be given in writing, shall set forth specifically
the grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing, and shall be
mailed, postage prepaid, to the permittee at his or her last known address at
least five days prior to the date set for hearing.
§§ 11-1-97 – 11-1-100 RESERVED.
SOLICITATIONS
§ 11-1-101 SOLICITING; STATEMENT; FILING; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, corporation, or
association to solicit or collect any money or other contributions within the
city without first filing with the City Clerk a written statement, in a form
prescribed by the City Clerk, stating the purposes for which such moneys or
contributions are to be solicited or collected. If the person soliciting or
collecting money or contributions is acting for another person, association, or
corporation, a written authorization by the person or corporation for whom the
same are solicited or collected shall be filed with the statement. The City
Clerk shall provide to the solicitor or collector a certified copy of the
statement, which shall be carried by such person during solicitations and
exhibited, upon request, to any person being solicited or to any law
enforcement officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to file a false statement as to the purposes for
which any money or contribution is solicited or collected or concerning the
identity of the person or corporation for which the solicitation or collection
is to be made. Provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to
properly authorized solicitors of:
      (1)   Established and organized churches or other established and
organized religious organizations;
      (2)   Any educational institution or organized charity; or
      (3)   Societies incorporated under the laws of the state.
ARTICLE 2: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
11-2-1   Occupation tax; levied; general scope; exceptions
   
11-2-2   Occupations taxes; rates
   
11-2-3   Tax; by whom payable
   
11-2-4   Tax; term; when due; generally
   
11-2-5   Same; Class C liquor licenses
   
11-2-6   Same; hotel accommodations
   
11-2-7   Payment; procedure; receipt
   
11-2-8   Tax moneys; fund
   
11-2-9   Refund; prohibited
   
11-2-10   Nonpayment; distress proceedings
   
11-2-11   Enforcement
Statutory reference:
   City occupation taxes, see Neb. RS 16-205
§ 11-2-1 OCCUPATION TAX; LEVIED; GENERAL SCOPE; EXCEPTIONS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, there is hereby levied an occupation tax
upon certain occupations, professions, and businesses within the city;
provided, such tax is not levied upon any occupation, profession, or business
which is interstate, or which is done or conducted by any department of the
government of the United States, the state, any county, or subdivision of this
state, or the city, or by the officers of any such government or governmental
subdivision in the course of its or their official duties. The requirements of
this article are in addition to, and not in lieu of, the requirements of this
or any provision of the municipal code pertaining to licenses.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-2-2 OCCUPATIONS TAXES; RATES.
   The tax referred to this article shall be upon each of the following
occupations and businesses in the amounts provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 11-2-3 TAX; BY WHOM PAYABLE.
   Such tax shall be payable by the person, persons, partnership, association,
firm, or corporation carrying on the occupation or business subject to the tax.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-2-4 TAX; TERM; WHEN DUE; GENERALLY.
   Except as provided in the provisions of this article pertaining to Class C
liquor licenses, general retail business transactions within an agreed enhanced
employment area and hotel accommodations, on all occupations and businesses
upon which such tax is levied at a yearly rate the year for such tax shall be
deemed to begin with May 1 of each year and shall end on April 30 following;
and such tax for each year shall be due and payable, in advance, on the May 1
of every year, and thereafter, such tax shall be delinquent. The whole amount
of every occupation tax levied at a daily or yearly rate must be paid in one
payment before the occupation or business is commenced, whether payment is made
at the beginning of the day or year, or at any time thereafter; and no payment
made at the beginning of the day or year shall be for any certain time less
than such day or year. The whole amount of the tax on the manufacture,
distribution, or sale of alcoholic liquor shall be paid immediately after the
final issuance of a license to the applicant under the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.; provided, however, when there is a purchase
of an existing licensed business and a new license of the same class is issued,
or upon the issuance of a new license for a location which has not been
previously licensed, the license fee and occupation taxes shall be prorated on
a quarterly basis as of the date of issuance. The tax on hotel accommodations
shall be paid according to the section of this article concerning such tax.
(Ord. 3835, passed - -2005; Ord. 4154, passed - -2015; Ord. 4210, passed 5-15-
2017)
§ 11-2-5 SAME; CLASS C LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The term for the tax on the doing of business under a Class C liquor license
shall be deemed to be the 12-month period beginning with November 1 of each
year and ending October 31 following. During the license year, no license shall
be issued for a sum less than the amount of the annual license fee as fixed in
this chapter, regardless of the time when the application for such license has
been made, except that when there is a purchase of an existing licensed
business and a new license of the same class is issued; or upon the issuance of
a new license for a location which has not been previously licensed, the
license fee and occupation taxes shall be prorated on a quarterly basis as of
the date of the issuance.
(Ord. 3835, passed - -2005)
§ 11-2-6 SAME; HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   Commencing on July 1,2017, every person, entity, or association
engaged in the business of offering or providing hotel accommodations to the
public within the city, shall pay to the city an occupation tax equal to a
percentage set out in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code on the gross receipts of the basic rental
rates charged per occupied room per night for hotel accommodations. For
purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply.
      BASIC RENTAL RATE. The monetary charge for the use of an occupied room in
a hotel.
      HOTEL. Any facility in which the public may, for a consideration, obtain
sleeping accommodations in any space ordinarily used for accommodations. The
term shall include hotels, motels, tourist homes, campgrounds, courts, lodging
houses, inns, a bed and breakfast, and nonprofit hotels but HOTEL shall not be
defined so as to include hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, chronic care
centers, or dormitories or facilities operated by an educational institution
and regularly used to house students.
      HOTEL OPERATOR. Any person, entity, association, partnership, or
corporation engaged in the business of offering or providing hotel
accommodations, and may be referred to as taxpayer herein.
      OCCUPIED ROOM.
         (a)   Any space ordinarily used for sleeping accommodations and for
which any occupant has, for consideration, obtained the use or possession, or
the right to use or possess, for a period not to exceed 30 continuous days. The
term shall include camping space, trailer space, or recreational vehicle space.
The term does not include a function room such as a ballroom, banquet room,
reception room, or meeting room; provided it is not used as temporary sleeping
accommodations.
         (b)   Shall not mean, and no tax imposed by this article shall be
measured by or collected for:
            1.   Complimentary or other sleeping accommodations for which no
consideration is charged;
            2.   Sleeping accommodations for which the consideration is paid by
a person not subject to sales and use tax imposed by the Nebraska Revenue Act
of 1967, being Neb. RS Chapter 77, Article 27, as it is amended from time to
time; or
            3.   Sleeping accommodations leased by an employer for use by its
employees when a specific room is the subject of the lease, the lease extends
for more than 30 consecutive days, and consideration is actually paid for use
during at least 30 consecutive days.
   (B)   The tax imposed by this article shall be collected by the hotel
operator from the occupant of each room to which the tax applies. The tax may
be shown as an add-on to the charge for occupancy of the rooms and shall be
collectible at the time the lodging is furnished, regardless of when the charge
for the occupancy is paid. The hotel operator shall remain responsible for
payment of all taxes imposed whether or not the taxes are actually collected
from the guests.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this article is purely for revenue purposes to
support the programs of the government of the city. The levy of the tax under
this article is in addition to all other fees, taxes, excises, and licenses
levied and imposed under any contract or any other provision of the municipal
code or ordinances of the city, in addition to any fee, tax, excise, or license
imposed by the state. Payment of the tax imposed by this article shall not
relieve the person paying the same from payment of any other tax now or
hereinafter imposed by contract or ordinance or by this code, including those
imposed for any business or occupation he or she may carry on, unless so
provided therein. It is the intent of the City Council that the occupation
taxes imposed by this article shall be accumulative except where otherwise
specifically provided.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any hotel operator subject to this article to
fail to maintain or fail to make available to the city, upon 72 hours notice,
written records accurately and completely evidencing the number of rooms
occupied, the dates the rooms are occupied, the amount of occupation tax due or
paid under this article, and such other information as is required by the
Finance Director of the city. Such records shall be maintained for a period of
three years after the occupation tax is due.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter or code, the
tax imposed by this article shall be due and payable on the first day of each
calendar month next succeeding the month during which the room was occupied.
All taxes not paid by the twenty-fifth day of the month in which they are due
and payable shall be deemed to be delinquent. The hotel operator shall be
assessed a penalty of 10% on all delinquent amounts, as well as interest of 1%
per month or fraction thereof from the first of the month in which such tax
becomes due and payable until the date of payment.
   (F)   Each and every hotel operator within the city for the calendar month
beginning July, 2017, and for each and every calendar month thereafter, shall
prepare and file, on or before the twenty- fifth day of the month or the next
business day should the twenty-fifth fall on a federal holiday or weekend,
following on a form prescribed by the Finance Director, a return for the
taxable calendar month, and pay to the Finance Director the tax imposed by the
first of day of the month as set forth in division (E) above. Any return that
is remitted via the United States Postal Service shall be postmarked by the
25th day of the month to be considered an on-time filing. A hotel operator may
make reports and remittances quarterly in lieu of monthly if their monthly
remittence would be $100 or less.
   (G)   If any hotel operator neglects or refuses to make a return or payment
of the taxes as required by this article, the Finance Director shall make an
estimate, based upon such information as may be reasonably available, of the
amount of taxes due for the period or periods for which the taxpayer is
delinquent, and upon the basis of such estimated amount, compute and assess in
addition thereto a penalty equal to 10% thereof, together with interest of such
delinquent tax, at a rate of 1% per month, or fraction thereof from the date
when due. The Finance Director shall give the delinquent taxpayer written
notice of such estimated taxes, penalty, and interest, which notice must be
served personally or by certified mail. Such estimate shall thereupon become an
assessment and such assessment shall be final and due and payable from the
taxpayer to the Finance Director ten days from the date of service of the
notice of the date of mailing by certified mail; however, within such ten-day
period, the delinquent taxpayer may petition the Finance Director for a
revision or modification of such assessment and shall, within such ten-day
period, furnish the Finance Director the facts and correct figures showing the
correct amount of taxes. Any petition by the taxpayer shall be in writing, and
the facts and figures submitted shall be submitted in writing and shall be
given under oath of the taxpayer. Thereupon, the Finance Director shall modify
such assessment in accordance with the facts he or she deems correct. Such
adjusted assessment shall be made in writing and notice thereof shall be mailed
to the taxpayer within ten days; and all such decisions shall become final upon
expiration of 30 days from the date of service, unless proceedings are
commenced within that time for an appeal in the County District Court by the
filing of a petition with the clerk of the court. This appeal shall be
conducted in conformance with the Nebraska Rules of Civil Procedure and rules
of the court as may be adopted by the court or enacted by the Legislature.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of every taxpayer to keep and reserve suitable
records and other books or accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount
of tax for which he or she is liable hereunder. The records of gross revenue by
which the tax is measured shall be kept separate and apart from the records of
other sales or receipts in order to facilitate the examination of books and
records as necessary for the collection of this tax. It shall be the duty of
every taxpayer to keep and preserve for the period of four years all such
books, invoices, and other records, which shall be open for examination at any
time by the Finance Director or his or her duly designated persons. Such person
keeps or maintains their books, invoices, accounts, or other records or any
thereof, outside of the state, upon demand of the Finance Director, they shall
make the same available at a suitable place within the city, to be designated
by the Finance Director, for examination, inspection, and audit by the Finance
Director or his or her duly authorized persons. The duties of the Finance
Director herein provided may be performed by any qualified person designated by
the Finance Director.
   (I)   The administration of the provisions of this section are vested in the
Finance Director who shall prescribe forms in conformity with this section for
the making of returns, for the ascertainment, assessment, and collection of the
tax imposed and for proper administration and enforcement. The Finance Director
may adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary or desirable for the
administration and enforcement of this article. This section shall be enforced
according to this article for the occupation taxes payable within the city.
(Ord. 4210, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 11-2-7 PAYMENT; PROCEDURE; RECEIPT.
   The occupation tax levied pursuant to this article shall be paid to the
Finance Director and the Finance Director shall keep a proper account of such
taxes.
(Ord. 2933, passed - -1985; Ord. 4210, passed 5-15-2017; Ord. 4210, passed 5-
15-2017)
§ 11-2-8 TAX MONEYS; FUND.
   All amounts realized from the collection of the occupation tax levied
pursuant to this article shall be placed to the credit of the General Fund to
be used for projects or such other fund or funds as designated by the City
Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 4210, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 11-2-9 REFUND; PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this article, no person, persons,
partnership, association, firm, or corporation paying such occupation tax shall
be entitled to a refund of any part of the tax so paid.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 4210, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 11-2-10 NONPAYMENT; DISTRESS PROCEEDINGS.
   Upon the failure of any person, persons, partnership, association, firm, or
corporation to pay such tax when demand is made by the city, the Finance
Director is authorized to issue a distress warrant over the corporate seal,
directed to the Police Chief and commanding the Police Chief to collect, by
distress and sale of goods and chattels for the person, persons, partnership,
association, firm, or corporation in such warrant named, the occupation tax due
and unpaid. The Police Chief for their services shall be entitled to such fees
out of the property distrained and sold as sheriffs, receive for making levy
and sale under execution. The costs created by reason of the distress sale
shall be paid out of the property levied upon, in addition to the amount due on
the occupation tax.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 4210, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 11-2-11 ENFORCEMENT.
   Should any person, persons, partnership, association, firm, or corporation
fail to pay such tax when demand is made by the city, the city may recover the
same, together with any applicable interest and penalties, in a civil action
brought against such person, persons, partnership, association, firm, or
corporation. This remedy shall not be exclusive of any other type of proceeding
available to the city, but shall merely be cumulative.
(Ord. 4210, passed 5-15-2017)
ARTICLE 3: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
11-3-1   Guns; sale at retail; records; reports
   
11-3-2   Secondhand guns; purchase; by dealer; records; reports
   
11-3-3   Public utilities; annual statements; required; form; contents
   
11-3-4   Violations; franchise; revocation
§ 11-3-1 GUNS; SALE AT RETAIL; RECORDS; REPORTS.
   Every person selling guns at retail in the city shall hereafter keep a
written record of all guns sold, which records shall show the name of each
purchaser, the make, kind, and serial number of each gun sold. Such records
shall be retained a period of ten years and shall be kept accessible to the
Police Chief at all times.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-3-2 SECONDHAND GUNS; PURCHASE; BY DEALER; RECORDS; REPORTS.
   All dealers within the city, buying secondhand guns for resale shall keep a
record of all guns so purchased, showing the make, kind, caliber, and serial
number of each gun, the name and address of the person selling the gun, and the
date when purchased. Such records shall be retained a period of ten years and
shall be kept accessible to the Police Chief at all times.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-3-3 PUBLIC UTILITIES; ANNUAL STATEMENTS; REQUIRED; FORM; CONTENTS.
   It is hereby made the duty of every person, firm, or corporation now
operating under, or hereafter procuring, a franchise or permit from the city to
conduct and carry on any public utility service for hire in said city, to file
with the City Clerk annually on or before January 10, a statement showing the
money actually invested therein, the gross yearly earnings thereof, the
operating expense, and other necessary expenditures for the year last past.
Such statement shall be itemized and in plain and concise form, and shall be
verified by the oath of the officer or person in charge.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 11-3-4 VIOLATIONS; FRANCHISE; REVOCATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. A
conviction under this section shall be deemed just and sufficient cause to
revoke and cancel any franchise or permit of such violator.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
ARTICLE 4: GAS RATE REGULATION
Section
   
11-4-1   Rate change; rate filing; fee; general requirements
   
11-4-2   Rate filing; cost of service
   
11-4-3   Same; rate of return; rate base
   
11-4-4   Same; costs; rate base items; allocation
   
11-4-5   Same; information to be provided
   
11-4-6   Same; notices
   
11-4-7   Experts; engagement by city; expenses
   
11-4-8   Expenditures; allowance
   
11-4-9   Proposed rates; temporary; final determination
   
11-4-10   Rate filings; number
   
11-4-11   Franchise fee on energy providers
§ 11-4-1 RATE CHANGE; RATE FILING; FEE; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In the event a utility maintaining and operating a natural gas distribution
system within the city desires to change its rates for retail non-contract firm
natural gas service within the city, other than to reflect an adjustment for
the cost of purchased gas, the utility shall file with the City Clerk an
application for a change of rates by the City Council, which shall be signed by
the president or other officer authorized by the board of directors of the
utility. Commencing on June 3, 1987, a filing fee in the amount of $1,000 shall
be paid to the City Clerk with the rate filing. The rate filing shall be deemed
filed upon receipt of the same, together with the filing fee, by the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 3056, passed - -1987)
§ 11-4-2 RATE FILING; COST OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The rates proposed to be charged for non-contract firm natural gas
service within the city shall be based upon the utility’s cost of providing
service to the city or the representative costs in that part of utility’s
service area which includes the city. The period for which the cost of service
is to be recognized shall be a projected 12-month period commencing not later
than the proposed effective date of the increase.
   (B)   The cost of service shall be determined in a manner consistent with
regulated public utility practices and shall include:
      (1)   Appropriate costs as defined and set forth in the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Uniform System of Accounts Prescribed for Natural Gas
Companies FERC Accounts; and
      (2)   A reasonable return on the utility’s rate base.
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1986)
§ 11-4-3 SAME; RATE OF RETURN; RATE BASE.
   In determining a reasonable return, a rate (percentage) shall be employed
that is representative of the cost of debt, preferred stock, and common equity
capital. The rate base shall consist of the applicable net investment in
utility plant (as defined in the FERC accounts), allowance for working capital,
and such other items as may reasonably be included, less such investment as
may, unless otherwise prevented by law, be attributed to other than investor
capital.
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1986)
§ 11-4-4 SAME; COSTS; RATE BASE ITEMS; ALLOCATION.
   The utility’s appropriate costs and items of rate base shall include
allocated or apportioned expenses and rate base items when such allocations or
apportionments are reasonably representative of assigned common costs, and
arise from the manner in which the utility’s operations are conducted or from
an avoidance of excessive and costly financial record keeping.
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1986)
§ 11-4-5 SAME; INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   The utility shall provide, in its rate filing, three copies of the
most recent annual report to the stockholders and of completed and signed
copies of the “summary of proposed rate change” sheets.
   (B)   In addition, three copies of the following information shall, on
request by the city, be provided by the utility:
      (1)   A financial summary, showing aggregate rate base, operating
revenues, operating expenses, return on rate base, and rate of return,
including:
         (a)   Actual for the most recent calendar year preceding the date of
submission;
         (b)   For the projected 12-month period, using natural gas rates
currently in effect; and
         (c)   For the projected 12-month period, using the proposed natural
gas rates.
      (2)   Rate base schedules, on an original cost basis, showing for the
most recent 12- month period available and for the projected 12-month period:
         (a)   For utility plant and accumulated depreciation and amortization
components, the beginning and end of period balances by account, explanations
of changes in balances during the period, and the calculated rate base amounts;
         (b)   For cash working capital, the manner in which rate base amounts
are calculated;
         (c)   For other rate base components, beginning and end of period
amounts, explanations of changes in balances during the period, and calculated
rate base amounts; and
         (d)   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in
divisions (B)(2)(a), (b) and (c) above.
      (3)   Operating expense schedules, showing:
         (a)   Expenses by FERC accounts for the most recent calendar year,
including filing fees and occupation taxes paid to city;
         (b)   Explanation and calculations of allocated amounts included in
division (B)(3)(a) above;
         (c)   Expenses by FERC accounts or their equivalent for the projected
12-month period;
         (d)   Explanation of methods employed to develop projected expenses;
and
         (e)   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in
division (B)(3)(c) above.
      (4)   Rate of return/cost of capital schedules showing debt, preferred
stock, and common equity amounts at the beginning and end of the projected 12-
month period, explanations of changes during the period, and methods used to
calculate or otherwise determine cost of capital;
      (5)   Operating revenue schedules, showing:
         (a)   Number of customers, volume of sales, and operating revenue by
customer classes for the most recent calendar year;
         (b)   Number of customers and volume of sales by customer classes for
the projected 12-month period;
         (c)   Explanation of methods employed to determine date in division
(B)(5)(b) above;
         (d)   Operating revenues by rate schedules for the projected 12-month
period, using current rates;
         (e)   Operating revenue by customer classes for the projected 12-month
period, using proposed rates; and
         (f)   Detailed rates and calculations for divisions (B)(5)(d) and (e)
above, including customer usages (consumption analysis) data, peak demand and
load factor data by customer class, allocation methods and justifications, and
so forth.
      (6)   Informational schedules, showing for city as a whole:
         (a)   Cost of utility plant; and
         (b)   Number of customers, volume of sales, and operating revenue by
customer classes; and
      (7)   A clear designation, as part of the utility’s expenses, of all
expenditures for business gifts and entertainment, institutional, consumption
inducing, and other advertising or public relations expenses, and legislative-
advocacy expenses.
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1986)
§ 11-4-6 SAME; NOTICES.
   The utility shall cause notice of the rate filing to be given by publication
by placing a notice to the public of the proposed change in a newspaper having
general circulation in the city. Provided, notwithstanding the above, instead
of such publication, the utility may provide notice to the public by mailing
such notice by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the billing address of
each directly affected customer, or by including the notice in such customer's
bill in a conspicuous form. The notice shall be in the following form:
   NOTICE OF RATE INCREASE
   The (name of the utility) proposes to increase your rates by (amount of
total annual increase requested) dollars per year, which is an overall increase
of (percentage of increase over all revenues during the applicable test year)
percent and is an increase in base rates of (percentage of increase over all
revenues during the applicable test year which are not subject to escalation
through some form of automatic adjustment clause) percent. Further information
may be obtained from (name and address of utility official) or the application
on file with the City Clerk.
   An affidavit signed by an official of the utility, containing a copy of the
notice and describing the method of publication or, as the case may be, mailing
of the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1986)
§ 11-4-7 EXPERTS; ENGAGEMENT BY CITY; EXPENSES.
   The City Council shall have a right to select and engage rate consultants,
accountants, auditors, attorneys, engineers, and other experts as deemed
necessary or desirable to advise and represent the city in evaluating any
proposed rate change. The utility shall reimburse the city within 90 days of
the presentation of a bill by the city for the reasonable costs of those
services to the extent that such costs, as determined by the City Manager with
approval of the City Council, exceed the filing fee for the rate filing. Should
the filing fee paid by the utility exceed such costs, as so determined, the
amount of the excess shall be refunded to the utility.
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1986)
§ 11-4-8 EXPENDITURES; ALLOWANCE.
   The city may not allow inclusion as costs or expenses for rate making
purposes of any expenditures of a type referred to in §
11-4-5(G) of this article which city determines not to be in the public
interest, and the utility has the burden of showing these expenses to be in the
public interest.
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1986)
§ 11-4-9 PROPOSED RATES; TEMPORARY; FINAL DETERMINATION.
   If the proposed rates sought by the utility in its rate filing have not been
passed on final reading by the City Council within 90 days after it was filed
or as such time may be extended by agreement between the utility and the city
in order to supply additional information if requested by the city, the
proposed rates shall be put into effect as interim rates and shall be collected
subject to refund pursuant to the state statutes. Such interim rates shall
remain in effect pending final determination by the city (which determination
shall be made within one year) or, in the event of litigation, pending final
rate determination by the courts.
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1986)
§ 11-4-10 RATE FILINGS; NUMBER.
   Rate filings, not including changes reflecting the cost of gas, shall be
limited to a maximum of one in any 12-calendar month period.
(Ord. 2962, passed - -1986)
§ 11-4-11 FRANCHISE FEE ON ENERGY PROVIDERS.
   The city may by ordinance impose a franchise fee on all energy providers
operating within the city. The ordinance may be updated periodically and can be
amended or revised without amending this section.
(Ord. 4278, passed 3-7-2022)
ARTICLE 5: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
11-5-1   Purpose
   
11-5-2   Definitions
   
11-5-3   Administration; delegation of powers and authority
   
11-5-4   Cable operator; applicability
   
11-5-5   Video programming; exemptions
   
11-5-6   Same; request for relief by cable operator
   
11-5-7   Inconsistencies with federal or state law
   
11-5-8   Notices
   
11-5-9   Indemnity
   
11-5-10   Insurance
   
11-5-11   Performance bond
   
11-5-12   Furnishing of reports
   
11-5-13   Records
   
11-5-14   Customer service
   
11-5-15   Preferential or discriminatory practices prohibited
   
11-5-16   Construction and use of public ways
   
11-5-17   Technical standards
   
11-5-18   Emergency alert system
   
11-5-19   Service area and expansion
   
11-5-20   Franchise
   
11-5-21   Franchise fees
   
11-5-22   Assignment of franchise
   
11-5-23   Educational and governmental access
   
11-5-24   Public service
   
11-5-25   Default
   
11-5-26   Removal of cable system
   
11-5-27   Federal legislation, rules, and regulations; franchise subject to
amendment
   
11-5-28   Intergovernmental cooperation
   
11-5-29   Tampering and unauthorized reception of certain signals
   
11-5-30   Severability
§ 11-5-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to:
   (A)   Establish a local policy concerning cable television;
   (B)   Establish franchise procedures and standards which encourage the
growth and development of cable systems which assure that cable systems are
responsive to the needs and interests of the city;
   (C)   Establish guidelines for the exercise of local authority with respect
to the regulation of cable systems;
   (D)   Establish an orderly process for franchise renewal which protects
cable operators against unfair denials of renewal where an operator’s past
performance and proposal for future performance meet the standards set by the
FCC and this article;
   (E)   Promote competition in cable communications and minimize unnecessary
regulations that would impose undue burdens on cable systems;
   (F)   Provide for access and inspection of a cable operator’s records in
order to monitor compliance with local, state, and federal laws, and any
franchise agreement;
   (G)   Enforce customer service standards;
   (H)   Provide a construction and installation policy for a cable operator’s
system;
   (I)   Provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
city in light of the cable operator’s construction, operation, and maintenance;
   (J)   Provide for emergency override capability, so that citizens of the
city may be warned of a potential, imminent, or actual emergency situation that
exists in the area;
   (K)   Create a procedure for collecting and monitoring franchise fees; and
   (L)   Create a default and revocation procedure for cable operators.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article or in any franchise issued pursuant to this article,
the following terms shall have the following definitions.
   AFFILIATE. Another person or entity who owns or controls, is owned or
controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with, the person or
entity.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity submitting an application or proposal to the
city for a franchise to operate a cable system under the terms and conditions
of this article and any state or federal regulations.
   AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT. Equipment supplied by a cable operator which enhances
or assists in the reception or provision of cable service.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the retransmission of
local television broadcast signals.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended, which is
codified as 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., or any future federal legislation
concerning the subject matter provided for in the Cable Act.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or entity which:
      (1)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly or through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system; or
      (2)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of a cable system.
   CABLE SERVICE.
      (1)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of: video programming or go
other programming service; and
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of video programming or other programming service.
   CABLE SYSTEM. A facility consisting of a set of closed transmission paths
and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that is
designed to provide cable service which includes video programming, and which
is provided to multiple subscribers within the city; provided, however, this
shall not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public way;
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of Title II of the Cable Act, except that the facility
shall be considered a cable system (other than for purposes of § 621(c) of the
Cable Act) to the extent the facility is used in the transmission of video
programming directly to subscribers; unless the extent of such use is solely to
provide interactive on-demand services;
      (4)   An open video system that complies with § 653 of the Cable Act; or
      (5)   Any system exempted under the Cable Act.
   CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum which is used
in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a television channel.
   CHARGE. A one-time or non-regularly occurring cost paid by the subscriber,
and which is associated with the installation, maintenance, service, or repair
of the cable service.
   CITY. The City of Scottsbluff, Nebraska and includes any areas annexed to
the city after this date.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Scottsbluff.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Scottsbluff.
   COMMUNITY. The geographic area within the municipal limits of Gering,
Nebraska, Terrytown, Nebraska, and Scottsbluff, Nebraska and any portions of
Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska, which are served by a cable system serving any
portion of those municipalities or county.
   EMERGENCY. An imminent, impending, or actual natural or humanly induced
situation where the health, safety, or welfare of all, or a representative
portion, of the residents of the city is threatened. An emergency (by
illustration) may include a snowstorm, flood, tornado, severe thunderstorm,
hazardous waste infiltration, petroleum, munitions or nuclear explosion, or
aircraft crash.
   EASEMENT. Includes any public easement or other compatible use created by
dedication or by other means, to the city for public utility or other purposes
including cable television. EASEMENT shall include a private easement used for
the provision of cable service.
   ENTITY. A partnership, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or such other form of conducting business authorized by state law.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or any successor governmental
entity.
   FRANCHISE. The authorization issued by the city which authorizes a non-
exclusive right to construct, operate, and maintain a cable system within the
city.
   FRANCHISE FEE. Includes any tax, fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by
the city on a cable operator or subscriber, or both, solely because of their
status as such. FRANCHISE FEE does not include:
      (1)   Any tax, fee, or assessment of general applicability (including any
such tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or
their services but not including a tax fee, or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or subscribers);
      (2)   Agreed upon capital costs incurred by the cable operator for PEG or
governmental access facilities;
      (3)   Requirements or charges incidental to the awarding or enforcing of
a franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or
      (4)   Any fee imposed under the copyright laws of the United States.
   GROSS REVENUE. Any revenue, as determined in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, received by a cable operator from the operation
of a cable system within the city. GROSS REVENUE does not, however, mean any
taxes, fees, or assessments collected by a cable operator from subscribers for
pass-through to a government agency (including sates taxes, franchise fees, or
FCC user fees); unrecovered bad debt or bona fide credits, refunds and deposits
paid to subscribers; revenues from activities exempted under the Cable Act or
by the FCC, and PEG channel support recovered from subscribers.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Scottsbluff.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a cable operator makes available
to all subscribers generally.
   PEG CHANNEL. A public, educational, or governmental channel which is carried
on a cable system.
   PERMIT. A written authorization issued to a cable operator by the city,
other than a franchise.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any public street, public place, public easement, or right-of-
way dedicated to the public use.
   REPORTING QUARTER. A cable operator’s fiscal quarter as reported to the
city. If a cable operator does not report to or notify the city concerning the
dates of its fiscal quarters, then the REPORTING QUARTERS for a cable operator
shall be considered to be the periods ending on the last day of March, June,
September and December of each calendar year.
   SCHOOL. Any K-12 school operated within the city by any public school
system.
   SERVICE TIER. A category of cable service or other services provided by a
cable operator, and for which a separate rate is charged.
   STATE. The State of Nebraska.
   SUBSCRIBER. A person lawfully receiving cable service delivered by a cable
operator.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING. Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING PROVIDER. A provider of video programming which is
authorized by the city or applicable law to utilize the public way to provide
video programming to residents of the city.
It is intended that the definitions of any of the terms which are also defined
in the Cable Act be consistent with the corresponding Cable Act definitions. In
the event that it is determined that any of the above definitions are
inconsistent with the Cable Act, then the definitions contained in the Cable
Act shall control.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-3 ADMINISTRATION; DELEGATION OF POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   Unless prohibited by federal or state law, the City Council may delegate its
powers and authorities with respect to a cable operator to one or more duly
authorized representatives of the city, including the Mayor, the City Manager,
a cable advisory committee, or an outside consultant; provided, however, the
City Council may never delegate its power to franchise or to revoke a franchise
to another person.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-4 CABLE OPERATOR; APPLICABILITY.
   Unless exempted entirely or in part from this article or any of its
provisions or granted relief by the City Council from any of its provisions,
then this article shall be applicable to all cable operators.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-5 VIDEO PROGRAMMING; EXEMPTIONS.
   A provider of video programming shall not be considered as a cable operator
and subject to this article if the provider does not use or cross any public
way. An exempted person or entity remains exempted only as long as it meets the
above criteria. An exempted person or entity is, however, expected to abide by,
and comply with, any other applicable city, county, state, and federal laws and
regulations, including any applicable federal or state consumer protection or
consumer service laws and regulations.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-6 SAME; REQUEST FOR RELIEF BY CABLE OPERATOR.
   (A)   Any cable operator may file a written petition, at any time, with the
city requesting relief from one or more provisions of this article. The relief
requested may specifically include the delay in implementation (as to the
petitioning cable operator only) of one or more provisions of this article. In
order to receive any relief from one or more of the provisions of this article,
a cable operator must satisfactorily demonstrate to the council that at least
one of the following facts exist:
      (1)   The provision and/or requirement is expressly prohibited by federal
law, the FCC, or state law;
      (2)   The provision in question materially affects, and is in conflict
with an expressed right that is specifically noted in an existing franchise
agreement (but only for the term of the existing franchise);
      (3)   The imposition of the provisions and/or requirements will create an
undue economic hardship on the cable operator so as to imperil or eliminate the
cable operator’s ability to provide cable service to a majority of current
subscribers; or
      (4)   As an alternative to requesting relief, a cable operator may
petition for clarification as to the precise intent and effect that one or more
provisions or sections of this article has on the petitioning cable operator.
   (B)   If the City Council grants relief to a cable operator, then the
franchise agreement shall be amended to reflect the extent of the relief.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-7 INCONSISTENCIES WITH FEDERAL OR STATE LAW.
   If any provision or section of this article is inconsistent with any
provision or section of a federal or state rate, regulation, or law, then the
federal or state rule, regulation, or law shall control.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-8 NOTICES.
   Each franchise shall designate the city’s and the cable operator’s contact
person to receive notices, filings, reports, records, documents, and other
correspondence. All notices shall be delivered to each party’s contact person
either by personal service with signed receipt of delivery, certified, or
registered mail, return receipt requested, or by recognized overnight delivery
service with receipt verification. All other filings, reports, records,
documents, and other correspondence may be delivered by any permissible means
including, but not limited to: personal service, overnight mail, email, or
facsimile. Delivery shall be deemed to have occurred at the time of receipt.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-9 INDEMNITY.
   (A)   Each cable operator shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the
city, its officials, authorized agents, and employees from any and all penalty,
damage, or loss arising out of claims, suits, demands, causes of action, or
award of damages which might be claimed now or in the future, which arise out
of, or are caused by, the construction, erection, location, product’s
performance, operation, maintenance, repair, installation, replacement,
removal, or restoration of the cable system within the city by a negligent act
or omission of the cable operator, its authorized agents or employees,
contractors, or authorized representatives; provided, however, the cable
operator shall not be obligated to indemnify the city for any penalty, damage,
or loss resulting from the willful misconduct or negligence of the city or from
any use of the cable system by the city (to include the use of PEG channels).
Reasonable attorney’s fees, consultant’s fees, expert witness fees, and other
expenses of litigation are included, except as set forth in division (B)(4)
below, as those costs which may be recovered by the city.
   (B)   With respect to any request for indemnification made to a cable
operator by the city:
      (1)   The city shall give the cable operator written notice of its
obligation to indemnify the city at least ten calendar days prior to the
deadline for responding to the claim or action, and if no such deadline exists,
within 30 days of receipt of written notification of a claim or action;
      (2)   The cable operator shall then have the right to defend, settle, or
compromise any such claims at the cable operator’s expense and with the
assistance of counsel of the cable operator’s choice. The city shall provide
reasonable cooperation in connection with the defense subject to the cable
operator’s obligation to reimburse the city for actual out-of-pocket expenses
incurred by the city as the result of a request by the cable operator;
      (3)   If the cable operator fails to defend a claim within a reasonable
time, the city shall be entitled to assume the defense and the cable operator
shall be bound by the results and shall be liable to the city for the damages
incurred by the city to include the costs referred to above as recoverable by
the city; and
      (4)   If a cable operator obtains counsel for the city, and/or its
officials, agents, and employees, then any one of them shall have the right to
approve counsel, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The city,
its officials, agents, and employees shall have the right to retain counsel of
their own at their own expense.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-10 INSURANCE.
   (A)   A cable operator shall secure and maintain, for as long as it provides
cable service, insurance coverage (the “insurance”) in at least the following
limits:
 
Workers’ Compensation                  Statutory Limits
                                         $2,000,000 per occurrence, combined
Commercial general liability             single liability $2,000,000 general
                                         aggregate
Auto liability including coverage on all $1,000,000 per occurrence, combined
owned and non-owned hired autos          single liability
Umbrella liability                       $1,000,000 per occurrence, combined
                                         single liability
 
   (B)   The insurance shall specifically include the city as an additional
insureds with respect to any liability arising out of the cable operator’s
performance.
   (C)   The insurance shall be issued by one or more companies licensed to do
business in the state.
   (D)   The insurance shall contain an endorsement obligating the insurance
company to furnish the city with reasonable written advance notice of the
cancellation of the insurance.
   (E)   Before a cable operator provides cable service, the cable operator
shall deliver the policies or certificates representing the insurance to the
city. Renewal or replacement policies or certificates shall be delivered to the
city prior to the expiration of the then existing insurance.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-11 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   A cable operator shall comply with the following bonding requirements.
   (A)   A construction/completion bond shall be furnished prior to the time
that a cable operator commences a construction, upgrade, rebuild, or repair/
maintenance project that has a capital-construction cost or outlay exceeding
$50,000 in value where the construction takes place in one or more easements or
in the public way, provided, however, the following shall not be considered in
determining whether a project exceeds $50,000: the cost attributable to any
portion of the construction that utilizes aerial facilities consisting of
existing poles owned by the cable operator or other utilities; or construction
within a new subdivision where the construction of facilities is coordinated
with the developer of the subdivision. The amount of the bond shall equal at
least 90% of the projected capital construction cost or outlay, but shall not
exceed $250,000. The construction/completion bond shall remain in force at all
times until one year after completion of construction as determined by the
city, unless relief is granted, or a reduction schedule is detailed in an
agreement between the city and the cable operator.
   (B)   Any construction/completion bond shall specifically guarantee that a
cable operator will timely abide by its construction, upgrade, rebuild, or
repair/maintenance schedule for the cable system and/or any time table for
technical and service improvements or additions to the cable system as may be
committed to, or agreed upon, from time to time by the city and the cable
operator.
   (C)   If the city draws on a bond as a result of a cable operator’s failure
to timely discharge its obligations, or failure to construct and activate the
cable system, or failure to complete a cable system upgrade or rebuild or
repair/ maintenance project, then the cable operator shall replenish the bond
within 30 days to the level required in this section.
   (D)   The City Council may authorize a cable operator to substitute a cash
deposit, letter of credit, or a guaranty of another person or entity for any of
the bonds provided for in this section; provided, however, the person or entity
providing a letter of credit or guaranty, and the form of the letter of credit
or guaranty, shall be subject to the approval of the City Council in its sole
discretion.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-12 FURNISHING OF REPORTS.
   (A)   A cable operator’s schedule of charges for regular subscriber service,
its policy regarding the processing of subscriber complaints, delinquent
subscriber disconnect and reconnect procedures, and any other terms and
conditions adopted as the cable operator’s policy in connection with its
subscribers shall be filed with the city upon request.
   (B)   Upon written request of the city, a cable operator shall furnish, at
no cost to the city, copies of any or all non-confidential filings with the FCC
and the United States Copyright Office within 30 days of the request.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-13 RECORDS.
   (A)   A cable operator shall keep complete and accurate records concerning
the business and operations of the cable system.
   (B)   (1)   The city by its authorized representatives shall have the right
on reasonable advance written notice, to review all records pertaining to a
cable operator’s cable operations with respect to the city as more reasonably
necessary to determine a cable operator’s compliance with the franchise. Such
notice shall specifically reference the section(s) of the franchise or the
cable ordinance for which the review is requested. The cable operator agrees
that it will furnish the information requested electronically or make it
available for the city’s review, to the city within 30 days of the request.
      (2)   Non-revenue financial records will only be requested in the
aggregate on a summary prepared by the cable operator.
      (3)   The city acknowledges the sensitivity of a cable operator’s records
and will request this information only on as needed basis and will treat this
information as confidential and proprietary to the fullest extent allowed by
law. The cable operator shall not be required to produce any records in
violation of the Cable Act or any other applicable law. Until otherwise ordered
by a court or agency of competent jurisdiction, the city agrees that, to the
extent permitted by state and federal law, it shall deny access to any of a
cable operator’s records marked confidential to any person.
      (4)   The city shall have the right to hire, at its own expense, an
independent certified public accountant, or other business or financial expert,
to review the records of a cable operator pertaining to revenue information.
      (5)   If after a review or audit of a cable operator’s records, it is
discovered that the cable operator has underpaid the city by an amount that
exceeds the greater of $2,500 or 3% of the total amount paid for any reporting
quarter, then the city may require the cable operator to reimburse the city for
the actual cost of the audit, in addition to the amount of underpayment;
provided, however, no such reimbursement shall be required if the reason for
the underpayment is due to the annexation of additional areas into the city,
for which notification of the annexation was not provided to a cable operator.
      (6)   A cable operator shall not be required to maintain any records for
franchise compliance purposes longer than four years, except for written
service complaints, which shall be kept for one year.
      (7)   A cable operator shall maintain a full and complete set of plans,
records, and strand maps showing the location of the cable system.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-14 CUSTOMER SERVICE.
   A cable operator shall comply with the following customer service
requirements.
   (A)   A cable operator shall comply with the customer service standards as
provided for in the FCC regulations, as may be amended from time to time. This
section shall be considered as notice to cable operators of the city’s election
to enforce those standards.
   (B)   A cable operator shall:
      (1)   Maintain a customer service facility within the boundaries of the
city staffed by customer service representatives that have the capacity to
accept payment, adjust bills, respond to repair, installation, re-connection,
disconnection, or other service calls; distribute or receive converter boxes,
remote control units, or other equipment related to the provision of cable or
video service;
      (2)   Provide customers with bill payment facilities through retail,
financial, or other commercial institutions located within the boundaries of
the city;
      (3)   Provide an address, toll-free telephone number, or electronic
address to accept bill payments and correspondence, and provide secure
collection boxes for the receipt of bill payments and the return of equipment,
provided that if a cable operator provides secure collection boxes, it shall
provide a printed receipt when items are deposited; or
      (4)   Provide an address, toll-free telephone number, or electronic
address to accept bill payments and correspondence, and provide a method for
customers to return equipment to the cable operator at no cost to the customer.
   (C)   A cable operator shall maintain a toll-free telephone number and a
phone service operated such that complaints and requests for repairs or
adjustments may be received at any time.
   (D)   A cable operator shall comply with all federal and state laws and
regulations concerning special service requirements for disabled, sight or
hearing impaired, or ambulatory impaired subscribers.
   (E)   A cable operator shall furnish each subscriber at the time service is
installed, written instructions that clearly set forth information concerning
the procedures for making inquiries or complaints, including the cable
operator’s name, address, and local or toll-free telephone number. To the
extent required by applicable law, a cable operator shall give the city 30
days’ prior notice of any rate increases, channel lineup, or other substantive
service changes.
   (F)   A cable operator shall abide by any, and all, subscriber privacy rules
or regulations under federal or state law.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-15 PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A cable operator shall not deny cable service, deny access, or
otherwise discriminate, nor subject any person to prejudice or disadvantage on
the basis of age, race, creed, color, sex, national origin, handicap, or
religious affiliation. Cable operators shall not deny cable service, or the
extension of cable service, to any group of potential residential cable
subscribers because of the income of the residents of the local area in which
such group resides.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not, however, prohibit a cable
operator from:
      (1)   Offering bulk rate discounts or promotions; or
      (2)   Denying service based on location of residence, if that residence
is outside the parameters for line extension, or standard installations, as
provided for in this article or the cable operator’s franchise.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-16 CONSTRUCTION AND USE OF PUBLIC WAYS.
 
   (A)   All facilities of a cable operator shall be located, installed, and
maintained so as not to endanger or unnecessarily interfere with usual and
customary use, traffic, and travel upon public ways and easements, and
according to any public way or easement use standards established by the city.
   (B)   (1)   A cable operator shall construct, operate, maintain, and repair
its cable system in compliance with all current technical codes adopted by the
city, the state, and the FCC, as are customary to the cable television
industry. To the extent that these are inconsistent with other provisions of a
franchise, or state or local law, then the more stringent shall govern in order
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (2)   A cable operator shall obtain all required permits from the city
before commencing any work requiring a permit, including the opening or
disturbance of any public way.
      (3)   All facilities of a cable operator shall be installed and located
as to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of
property owners and at all times shall be kept and maintained in a safe,
adequate, and substantial condition, and in good order and repair. The cable
operator shall, at all times, employ ordinary care and use commonly accepted
methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to
cause damage, injuries, or nuisances to the public, to include barricades,
flags, lights, or other devices as are reasonably required for public safety.
      (4)   A cable operator shall use existing poles, conduits, and other
facilities whenever possible, and shall not construct or install any new,
different, or additional poles, conduits, or other facilities on public ways
without obtaining all permits required by the city. Any poles or other fixtures
placed in any public way by the cable operator shall be placed in such a manner
as not to interfere with the usual travel on such public way.
      (5)   The cable operator shall, at its own expense, restore any damage or
disturbance caused to the public way as a result of its operation,
construction, or maintenance of the cable system to a condition reasonably
comparable to the condition of the public way immediately prior to such damage
or disturbance.
      (6)   If a cable operator’s system creates a hazardous or unsafe
condition or an unreasonable interference with property, then the cable
operator shall at its own expense voluntarily, or upon request of the city,
remove or move, as appropriate, that part of the system that creates the
hazardous condition.
      (7)   A cable operator shall not place equipment where it will interfere
with the rights of property owners or with other public utility services or any
other service facility that benefits the city or its residents’ health, safety,
or welfare.
      (8)   A cable operator shall, at its expense, protect public ways and
easements, and support or temporarily disconnect or relocate in the same public
way, any property of the cable operator when necessitated by reason of: traffic
conditions, public safety, a street closing, street construction or
resurfacing, change or establishment of a street grade, installations of other
city utility services, or any improvement, construction, or repair related to
health, safety, or welfare. Except in case of emergency, the city shall provide
at least ten days’ written notice to the cable operator of the need for a
relocation or temporary disconnection. In addition, the city shall have the
right to remove any of the cable operator’s facilities in the event of
emergency, and no charge shall be made by the cable operator to the city for
restoration and repair, unless such acts amount to gross negligence by the
city.
      (9)   If the city elects to alter or change the grade of any public ways,
the cable operator upon reasonable notice from the city, shall relocate any
portions of its cable system impacted by the city’s public way alterations, at
the cable operator’s expense.
      (10)   A cable operator shall, at the request of any person holding a
lawful permit issued by the city, protect, support, raise, lower, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in, or remove from the street as necessary any property of
the cable operator, provided that the expense of doing so is paid by the person
making the request and the cable operator is given reasonable advance written
notice to prepare for such changes. The cable operator may require such payment
in advance. For purposes of this division (B)(10), “reasonable advance written
notice” shall be no less than ten business days in the event of a temporary
relocation and no less than 120 days for a permanent relocation.
      (11)   A cable operator shall have the authority to trim trees in the
public way at its own expense as may be necessary to protect its wires and
facilities.
      (12)   In those areas of the city where transmission or distribution of
both telephone and power companies are underground or are later placed
underground, a cable operator’s feeder and subscriber drops shall also be
placed underground. To the extent reasonably possible, a cable operator shall
coordinate the joint use of facilities with the telephone and power companies.
Subscriber drops shall be buried within a reasonable time period, subject to
weather conditions.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-17 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   A cable operator shall comply with any rules and regulations of the FCC
concerning technical operation, signal quality, consumer electronics equipment
compatibility, and performance monitoring.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-18 EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM.
   A cable operator shall comply with all applicable federal statutes, rules,
and regulations with respect to emergency alert systems.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-19 SERVICE AREA AND EXPANSION.
   Cable service shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   A cable operator shall make cable service distributed over its cable
system available, at a charge which does not exceed the cable operator’s normal
rate for standard installations, to every residence within any area within the
city where there is a minimum density of at least 30 residences per lineal
strand mile of cable as measured from the cable operator’s closest trunk line
or distribution cable that is actively delivering cable service as of the date
of such request for service; provided, however, such installation shall be
financially and technically feasible, the cable operator shall have legal
access to the subscriber’s location, and the subscriber shall be within 125
feet of the cable operator’s existing distribution system.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, a cable operator shall have the right, but
not the obligation, to extend the cable system into any other area of the city
and to make cable service available to residential subscribers or to
businesses, upon such terms and conditions as determined by the cable operator.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-20 FRANCHISE.
   (A)   No person or entity, other than the city, shall be permitted to
construct, operate, or maintain a cable system where any part of the cable
system’s facilities to occupy or cross public ways without first having entered
into a franchise.
   (B)   With respect to all franchises.
      (1)   The city may award one or more non-exclusive franchises; provided,
however, any time a franchise is issued; the city otherwise grants a permit to
a video programming provider, which contains terms that are more favorable to a
particular cable operator or video programming provider; or the city
constructs, operates, or maintains its own cable system within the city limits,
then the city shall, within 30 days of a written request from another cable
operator or video programming provider, modify that cable operator’s franchise
or video programming provider authorization to insure that the obligations
applicable to any one cable operator or video programming provider are no more
burdensome than those imposed on one or more competing cable operators or video
programming providers or the city’s own cable system. If the city fails to make
modifications consistent with this requirement, the requesting cable operator’s
franchise or video programming provider’s authorization shall be deemed so
modified 30 days after the initial written request.
      (2)   An applicant shall be selected as part of a public proceeding and
hearing which affords due process to both the city and the cable operator. If
the applicant is selected as a cable operator, then the applicant will enter
into a franchise agreement with the city.
      (3)   Unless prohibited by law, the city reserves the right to construct,
operate, or maintain its own cable system within the city limits, provided the
city shall regulate all cable operators, video programming providers, and its
own cable system in a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory manner.
      (4)   If the City Council awards a franchise to an applicant, or approves
a proposal for renewal of a franchise, then a franchise agreement shall be
signed. A newly franchised cable operator may not lay any cable until the
franchise agreement is executed by the cable operator and the city. At a
minimum, a franchise agreement shall contain provisions for the following:
         (a)   The term or duration of the franchise;
         (b)   An agreement to comply with this article;
         (c)   Any applicable construction, upgrade, or rebuild schedule; and
         (d)   Any applicable build-out and density standard.
      (5)   Upon entering into a franchise, a cable operator may construct,
install, maintain, operate, repair, replace, remove, or restore a cable system
within the city. In so doing:
         (a)   The cable operator may utilize the public ways and those
easements dedicated to the public use; and
         (b)   The cable operator shall be responsible for obtaining its own
easements for private property and pole attachment agreements with other
utilities.
      (6)   The term of a franchise may be for a period not to exceed ten years
from the date that a franchise, or a franchise renewal, is approved by the City
Council. Proceedings for the renewal of a franchise shall be governed by the
applicable provisions of the Cable Act.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-21 FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   Each cable operator shall pay to the city a franchise fee equal to 5%
of the gross revenues of the cable operator. The city reserves the right at any
time, upon 90 days’ notice to all cable operators, to amend this section so as
to increase the franchise fee to the maximum rate allowable under federal law,
in the event that the maximum rate is increased. It is intended that the
franchise fees will promote the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
the city.
   (B)   Accordingly, the franchise fee shall be deposited into the general
revenues of the city, unless otherwise specified.
      (1)   The franchise fees may be passed through to subscribers as a line
item on subscriber bills or otherwise, consistent with federal law.
      (2)   Within 45 days after the end of each reporting quarter, a cable
operator shall file with the city a detailed financial and revenue report
showing the gross revenues received by the cable operator for operations within
the city during the proceeding reporting quarter. The report shall include
gross revenue from all sources upon which a franchise fee is payable. Gross
revenue may be reported in the aggregate by general service type or source.
      (3)   In the event that payment is not made within 60 days after the end
of a reporting quarter, then the cable operator may be declared in default of
the franchise, and the city may take action against the cable operator as
authorized in this article.
      (4)   The acceptance of any payment shall not be construed as a release
of, or an accord or satisfaction of, any claim that the city might have for
further or additional sums payable under the terms of this article, or for any
other performance or obligation of a cable operator.
      (6)   Payments of compensation made by a cable operator to the city
pursuant to this article shall be considered in addition to any and all taxes
of general applicability owed to the city by the cable operator that are not
included as franchise fee under federal law.
      (7)   A franchise fee shall not be payable on any gross revenue source(s)
which are excluded by federal law.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-22 ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   A cable operator’s franchise may not be assigned in whole or in part
without the city’s prior written approval. For purposes of this division (A),
“assigned” or “assignment” shall mean the transfer, sale, or any other form of
assignment of a cable system, to include any transaction or action which
effectively or actually changes ownership from one person or entity to another
to include the transfer of 50% or more of the ownership interest of an entity
or the parent of an entity. Any attempted assignment without prior written
approval shall constitute a default in the franchise. A proposed assignment
shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   At least 120 days before a proposed assignment is scheduled to
become effective, the cable operator shall make a written request to the City
Council’s approval of the proposed assignment.
      (2)   The city will not unreasonably withhold its consent to an
assignment. However, in making its determination, the City Council shall
consider the legal, financial, and technical qualifications of the proposed
assignee.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall restrict the city from considering
criteria established under state or federal law, rule, or regulation.   
      (4)   Before an assignment is approved by the city, the proposed assignee
shall sign a statement indicating that it has read, understands, and intends to
abide by any existing franchise agreement.
      (5)   The city may include certain amendment(s) to the franchise or this
article as a condition to the assignment; provided, however, any such amendment
(s) shall either be by mutual agreement between the city and the proposed
assignee, or shall not have a material adverse effect on the rights and
obligations of the cable operator under the franchise.
      (6)   In the event of any approved assignment, the assignee shall assume
all obligations and liabilities of the former cable operator.
      (7)   The city’s consent to an assignment shall not relieve the former
cable operator of its liability under the franchise agreement until the
assignment actually takes place unless specifically relieved by federal or
state law or by the City Council at the time an assignment is approved. In the
event of an assignment, the former cable operator shall remain liable for any
franchise fees incurred as of the time that the assignment is effective for the
period governed by the applicable statute of limitations.
      (8)   If the cable operator has provided the city with all information as
required by this section or the FCC in a timely manner, and the city has not
taken action on the cable operator’s request for transfer within 120 days after
receiving such request, consent by the city shall be deemed given.
   (B)   Consent shall not be required for an assignment to a wholly-owned
subsidiary entity of a cable operator or the current parent entity of a cable
operator, whether the ownership is direct or indirect, such as through other
wholly-owned intermediate subsidiaries. In addition, consent shall not be
required for the granting of a security interest in the cable operator’s system
including its franchise. However, if the holder of the security interest
repossesses, forecloses, or takes other action concerning its collateral, it
shall dispose of the cable system within a reasonable period of time, and the
disposition by the holder of the security interest shall be considered an
assignment subject to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-23 EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS.
   (A)   To the extent permitted by law, and in order to fulfill a public,
educational, and governmental access policy that will facilitate the long range
needs of the city, each cable operator shall provide, at its own expense, one
PEG channel under the control of the city.
   (B)   The following shall apply to the PEG channel.
      (1)   The city is solely responsible for the content it provides over the
PEG channel. The cable operator shall not exercise any editorial control over
any programming of the PEG channel and shall also not be subject to any civil
or criminal liability for any programs carried on the PEG channel.
      (2)   The PEG channel may be placed on any tier of service available to
all subscribers, including the digital tier. The city shall provide programming
on the PEG channel to occupy 70% of the hours between 11:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
for any 12 consecutive week period. In the event that the above the programming
levels are not maintained or if the city does not adequately use the channel,
the cable operator reserves the right to have the channel returned to the cable
operator for the cable operator’s use. If at any later time, which must be at
least one year from the return of the PEG channel to the cable operator, the
city desires to utilize the PEG channel, it may notify the cable operator of
its desire to do so, and the PEG channel shall be made available to the city
within 30 days of the request. The above programming requirements shall apply
with respect to continuance of the PEG channel by the city.
      (3)   If the city is utilizing the PEG channel and is also using any of
the following locations for signal input, signal input locations shall be
provided at City Hall. Only those signal input locations actually being used
shall be required.
      (4)   Cable operators may interconnect their cable systems for the
purpose of sharing PEG access programming, provided that the cable operators
are able to reach agreement for the interconnection. Nothing in this division
(B)(4) should be construed as requiring a cable operator to add additional PEG
channels.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-24 PUBLIC SERVICE.
   (A)   A cable operator shall furnish, upon request, and subject to
applicable law, one outlet for public buildings as identified in a cable
operator’s franchise.
   (B)   With respect to this service:
      (1)   The cable service provided pursuant to this section shall not be
used for commercial purposes and shall not generally be available for public
viewing. The city shall take reasonable precautions to prevent any use of the
cable system that results in the inappropriate use or any loss or damage to the
cable system; and
      (2)   The city shall hold the cable operator harmless from any and all
liability or claims arising out of the provision and use of cable service to
city buildings.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-25 DEFAULT.
   When a cable operator violates a provision of this article, or acts so as to
compromise the legal, financial, or technical integrity and/or stability of the
cable system or the cable operator itself, in either case, to a degree that the
interests of the subscribers are negatively affected, then a cable operator
shall be considered in default of this article.
   (A)   Examples of a default shall include, but are not limited to:
bankruptcy (except for a reorganization as long as the cable operator is in
compliance with an approved plan or other court order), insolvency, failure to
pay taxes or franchise fees, failure to receive written city approval for an
assignment, or failure to substantially abide by the terms and conditions of
the franchise agreement or this article, to include the failure to operate its
cable system. Provided:
      (1)   It is not the city’s intention to subject a cable operator to
penalties, fines, forfeitures, or revocation of a franchise for violations
where the violation was a good faith error that resulted in no or minimal
negative impact on the subscribers within the city, or where strict performance
would result in practical difficulties and hardship to a cable operator which
outweighs the benefit to be derived by the city and/or subscribers; and
      (2)   Events in the nature of force majeure or conditions which cannot be
corrected because they are matters reasonably beyond the ability of the
affected cable operator to anticipate and control shall not be considered a
default. This provision includes, but is not limited to, severe or unusual
weather conditions, fire, flood, or other acts of God, strikes, work delays
caused by failure of utility providers to service, maintain or monitor their
utility poles to which a cable operator’s cable system is attached, as well as
unavailability of materials, and/or qualified labor to perform the work
necessary; provided, however, such noncompliance shall only be excused for as
long as the cable operator is reasonably pursuing compliance.
   (B)   In the event that a default occurs, the city shall provide written
notice of the default to the affected cable operator. The notice of default
shall specify the violation(s).
   (C)   The cable operator shall have 30 days from the receipt of the written
notice to bring itself into compliance so that it is no longer in default of
its franchise or this article, as the case may be; provided, however, if by the
nature of default, the default cannot be cured within this 30-day period, the
cable operator shall initiate reasonable steps to remedy the default and notify
the city of the steps being taken and the projected date that they will be
completed.
   (D)   If the cable operator fails to cure its default within the time period
provided for above, the matter shall be set for public hearing before the City
Council to be held within 75 days after the notice of default was mailed to the
cable operator. Written notice of the time and place of the public hearing
shall be sent to the cable operator at least 20 days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   (E)   At the hearing, the cable operator shall have an opportunity to state
its position on the matter, present evidence, and question witnesses. If the
cable operator fails to attend the hearing where a continuance of the hearing
has not been granted by the City Council, then the cable operator may be
declared in default of the franchise agreement
   (F)   If the default has not been resolved by the time of or as a result of
the hearing, the City Council may, after the public hearing, direct the cable
operator to take corrective action within a specified period of time, or may
declare the cable operator in default of the franchise agreement, and revoke or
terminate the franchise. The City Council’s action shall be delivered to the
cable operator in writing within 15 days of the City Council’s action.
   (G)   If the City Council directs corrective action to be taken and the
cable operator does not rectify the default within the time specified, then the
City Council may, without further notice, declare the cable operator to be in
default and revoke or terminate the franchise.
   (H)   If the cable operator fails to comply with any determination by the
City Council, which determination is not stayed or overturned by order of an
appropriate court, then the city shall have any and all remedies available to
it by law, provided the cable operator may continue to operate the cable system
until all legal appeals procedures have been exhausted.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-26 REMOVAL OF CABLE SYSTEM.
   (A)   In the event of termination or forfeiture of the a franchise agreement
or abandonment of a cable operator’s cable system, the city may require the
cable operator to remove all or any portion of its cable system from all public
ways; provided, however, that the cable operator will not be required to remove
those portions of its cable system required to provide telecommunications
services or other non-cable service to the extent that the cable operator
lawfully provides telecommunications services or other non-cable service over
the cable system.
   (B)   If a cable operator has failed to commence removal of its cable
system, or such part as designated by the city, within 120 days after written
demand for removal is given, or if the cable operator has failed to complete
such removal within 12 months after written demand for removal is given, the
city may apply funds secured by the franchise agreement toward removal.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-27 FEDERAL LEGISLATION, RULES AND REGULATIONS; FRANCHISE SUBJECT TO
AMENDMENT.
   In addition to any requirements contained within this article, all cable
operators shall be expected to comply with all applicable provisions of the
Cable Act, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq. and all other federal laws directed
at controlling or regulating cable operators, and any rules and regulations
issued pursuant to those laws. In addition, any franchise issued pursuant to
this article shall be subject to amendment by mutual agreement of the parties
to incorporate any applicable federal legislation, rules, or regulations which
become effective after the date of the franchise.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-28 INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION.
   (A)   In the event that a cable system serves areas outside the jurisdiction
of the city (to include the community), then the various jurisdictions or
governmental subdivisions shall have the right to enter into one or more
agreements concerning the matters covered by this article. By way of example,
it is contemplated that the members of the community may enter into one or more
agreements to assist them in regulating administering franchises.
   (B)   These agreements may include, but shall not be limited to, the
following general areas:
      (1)   Allocation of the total franchise fee collected from the cable
system between the various governmental subdivisions;
      (2)   The review and evaluation of proposals to provide cable television
service or requests for renewal of existing franchises;
      (3)   Evaluations of a cable operator’s performance; or
      (4)   PEG channel use.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-29 TAMPERING AND UNAUTHORIZED RECEPTION OF CERTAIN SIGNALS.
   No person shall intercept or receive, or assist in intercepting or
receiving, any communications service offered over a cable system, unless
specifically authorized to do so by a cable operator, or as may otherwise be
specifically authorized by law.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term “assist in intercepting or
receiving” shall include the manufacture or distribution of equipment intended
by the manufacturer or distributor for the unauthorized reception of cable
service.
   (B)   Without securing permission from a cable operator, or making payment
to a cable operator, then no person shall be authorized to make any connection
with any part of a cable system for the purpose of receiving or intercepting or
assisting others to receive or intercept any cable service provided lawfully by
a cable operator.
   (C)   No person shall be authorized to willfully tamper with, remove, or
damage any facilities used for the distribution of cable service.
   (D)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor and upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine of up to $100. Each day that the
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 11-5-30 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this article will be deemed severable, and if any
provision of this article is held illegal, void, or invalid under applicable
law, that provision may be changed to the extent reasonably necessary to make
the provision legal, valid, and binding. If any provision of this article is
held illegal, void, or invalid in its entirely, the remaining provisions of
this article will not be affected.
(Ord. 4245, passed 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 12: NUISANCES
Section
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
12-1-1   Definitions
   
12-1-2   Nuisance; defined
   
12-1-3   Nuisances; illustrative enumeration
   
12-1-4   Repealed
   
12-1-5   Repealed
   
12-1-6   Repealed
   
12-1-7   Repealed
   
12-1-8   Right of entry
Abatement Procedures
   
12-1-9   Notice to remove
   
12-1-10   Emergency
Special Provisions Relating to Junk
   
12-1-11   Value determination
   
12-1-12   Value not exceeding $50
   
12-1-13   Value exceeding $50; scope of sections
   
12-1-14   Inquiry; notice
   
12-1-15   Claim; information
   
12-1-16   Determination; expenses; payment; release
   
12-1-17   Sale; notice
   
12-1-18   Sale; proceeds
   
12-1-19   Liability
Violations
   
12-1-20   Violation; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing cities to declare and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 16-230 and
18-1720
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 12-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
definitions unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   JUNK. Includes scrap metal, parts for machinery, appliances or vehicles, any
machine, or vehicle which is not in operating condition or which has lost its
identity, character, utility, or serviceability as such through deterioration,
dismantling, or the ravages of time, or which has been cast off, discarded, or
thrown away or left as waste or wreckage. The term does not include:
      (1)   Solid waste as defined in
Chapter 19 of this code;
      (2)   Abandoned vehicles as defined in
Chapter 22 of this code; and
      (3)   Refrigerators kept outside of a building, if each door of the
refrigerator is secured by a hasp and lock as provided elsewhere in this
chapter.
   LITTER. Includes, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Trash, rubbish as defined in
Chapter 19 of this code, solid waste as defined in
Chapter 19 of this code, refuse, garbage as defined
Chapter 19 of this code, paper, plastic, rags, and ashes;
      (2)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, sheetrock, or stone building rubble;
      (3)   Lawn trimmings, dead leaves, and tree and shrubbery trimmings,
provided however that these things shall not be considered litter if they are
in the process of being composted; and
      (4)   Offal and dead animals.
   WEEDS. Includes, but not be limited to, bindweed (convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula), Canadian
thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rahmnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (ambrosiaceae), and other worthless vegetation commonly regarded as
weeds.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
§ 12-1-2 NUISANCE; DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, a nuisance exists when a person fails to
perform a duty within the city limits, or permits any condition or thing to
exist within the city limits, which act, omission, condition, or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the quiet enjoyment of life and property,
or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
§ 12-1-3 NUISANCES; ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be or
remain on public or private property within the city limits of any of the
following items, conditions, or actions is hereby declared to be and to
constitute a nuisance; however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or
construed to be conclusive, limiting, or restrictive:
   (A)   Any condition which promotes harborage for rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin;
   (B)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located;
   (C)   All disagreeable or obnoxious gases, odors, and/or fumes, as well as
the conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such gases, odors, and/or fumes;
   (D)   The dressed or undressed carcasses of fish, animals or fowl, wild
game, or domestic, not disposed of, processed, or removed from the general
public view;
   (E)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes, or other
substances;
   (F)   Any building, structure, or location wherein or upon which any
activity which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted,
performed, or maintained;
   (G)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or property;
   (H)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (I)   Any method of human excreta disposal which does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter, state law, or city ordinances, rule, or regulation;
   (J)   Leaking or defective water pipes, sewer pipes, hydrants, cisterns,
wells, gutters, drains, rain spouts, or seepage in or about any structure used
for human occupancy or the surrounding earth;
   (K)   Any abandoned or open wells, cisterns, or cellars;
   (L)   The discharge of any filthy or offensive water, swill, liquid, or
waste from any commercial establishment into or on any street, alley, sidewalk,
gutter, vacant lot, stream, or river;
   (M)   The keeping or maintaining of any hives or boxes used or occupied or
for the purpose of housing or occupation by bees within the city limits, except
as hereinafter provided. The keeping of bees shall not be prohibited in
agricultural zones, provided no box or hive containing bees permitted to fly at
large shall be kept within 100 feet of any dwelling, except the dwelling of the
owner of such bees, or within 50 feet of any exterior boundary within which the
box or hive is kept;
   (N)   The parking or storage of any vehicle or machine or parts thereof in
violation of any municipal code, state statute, or federal law;
   (O)   Any building or structure including the ground on which it sits that
is used for the unlawful manufacture, cultivation, growth, production,
processing, sale, possession, or storage of any controlled substance as defined
in Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 4;
   (P)   Any excavation exposed so as to catch and hold water, filth, or any
refuse matter;
   (Q)   Leaving any refrigerator, or any cabinet enclosing apparatus for the
cooling or freezing of perishable articles or substances outside of a building
unless the doors of every compartment of such refrigerator or cabinet are
removed. Provided, however, that such doors need not be removed if each door is
secured by a hasp and lock;
   (R)   Permitting, allowing, or maintaining any growth of 12 inches or more
in height of weeds or grasses on any lot or tract of land within the city, or
permitting such lot or tract of land or the adjoining streets and alleys to
become covered or overgrown with weeds, or littering or causing litter to be
deposited or remain thereon except in proper receptacles;
   (S)   Placing or accumulating junk. It shall not be unlawful to:
      (1)   Keep or store junk inside a building;
      (2)   Keep or store junk in a junkyard as defined in
Chapter 25, Article 22 of this code, which junkyard is in a location permitted
under
Chapter 25, Article 22 of this code;
      (3)   Accumulate or permit junk to remain on a lot or other tract of land
owned or occupied by the person accumulating the junk or permitting it to
remain, for a period not to exceed ten days, for the sole purpose of
preparation for removal from the premises; or
      (4)   Hold not more than two damaged or inoperable automobiles for
purposes of restoration if such automobiles are concealed by an automobile
cover and situated in a rear or side yard (except a side yard abutting a
street) of a lot or tract on which is situated a residence.
   (T)   Every other act or thing done, made, permitted, allowed, or continued
on any property, whether public or private, detrimental to the health or likely
to injure any of the inhabitants of the city.
(Ord. 3884, passed - -2005)
§ 12-1-4 REPEALED.
§ 12-1-5 REPEALED.
§ 12-1-6 REPEALED.
§ 12-1-7 REPEALED.
§ 12-1-8 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purpose of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, any police officer, the Planning and Building Official, and any other
city employee designated by the City Manager shall have the right to enter any
premises in the city at any reasonable time.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
ABATEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 12-1-9 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   If any nuisance as defined in this municipal code shall exist anywhere
subject to this chapter, the City Manager or his or her designee may give
notice to abate and remove such notice to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, of the property where the nuisance is
located. If notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful,
notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city or by posting the notice on the lot or ground upon which the nuisance
is to be abated and removed. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance within a stated time;
      (2)   A statement that the party may request a hearing before the City
Manager within five days after receiving the notice;
      (3)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
      (4)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (5)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
      (6)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the city shall abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
   (B)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the land does not request a hearing with the City Manager or fails
to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the City Manager or
his or her designee may cause the city to remove the nuisance. Within five days
after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant may make a written request
for a hearing before the City Manager. Such a request shall suspend the notice
to abate and remove unless an emergency was declared as provided in this
chapter. At such hearing, the City Manager may order the nuisance abated and
removed within such time as the City Manager shall determine. If the nuisance
is not abated and removed within the time specified by the City Manager, the
City Manager or his designee may cause the city to remove the nuisance. The
costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for
two months after such work is done, the city may either levy and assess the
costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed; or recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys. Any junk which
is removed under the provisions of this section shall be impounded and shall be
valued as provided elsewhere in this chapter. The remedy provided in this
section shall be cumulative with any other remedy provided in this municipal
code, or otherwise available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 3799, passed - -2004)
§ 12-1-10 EMERGENCY.
   If the City Manager or his or her designee shall determine that a particular
nuisance as defined in this municipal code is so unsafe, or is unsafe in a
respect such that a delay in removal thereof would result in undue danger or
other hazard to persons or property, he or she may declare in writing that
there exists an emergency requiring that this nuisance be removed immediately
and order the appropriate city employees to remove the nuisance. The costs and
expenses of such removal may be assessed as provided in this chapter. Any junk
which is removed under the provisions of this section shall be impounded and
shall be valued as provided in this chapter. The remedy provided in this
section shall be cumulative with any other remedy provided in this municipal
code, or otherwise available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO JUNK
§ 12-1-11 VALUE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee, after removing and impounding
junk as provided elsewhere in this chapter, shall determine whether the fair
market value of the junk exceeds the sum of $50. For purposes of such valuation
process, articles shall be valued in the following sequence:
      (1)   Each particular article which may have a value in excess of $50;
      (2)   Each set, partial or complete, of components of a particular type
of machinery, appliance, or equipment which may have a value in excess of $50;
and
      (3)   Each aggregate of articles that are identical or substantially
similar to each other in character, which may have a value in excess of $50.
   (B)   After such part of the valuation process has been completed:
      (1)   Those particular articles, sets, or aggregates finally determined
to have a fair market value in excess of $50 shall be deemed to constitute junk
having a market value in excess of $50; and
      (2)   Those finally determined not to have such a fair market value,
together with any other articles or materials not valued to that point, shall
be again valued and, if all of these in the aggregate shall be determined to
have a fair market value in excess of $50, then such articles and materials
collectively shall be deemed to constitute junk having a fair market value in
excess of $50; otherwise, such articles and materials shall be deemed
collectively not to be junk having such value.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
§ 12-1-12 VALUE NOT EXCEEDING $50.
   If the City Manager or his or her designee shall certify that the fair
market value of certain junk valued in accordance with this chapter does not
exceed the sum of $50, title to such junk shall immediately vest in the city,
and the city, in the discretion the City Manager, may retain and use, sell at
private sale or public auction, or otherwise dispose of such junk. If such junk
is sold, the proceeds of sale shall be retained by the city and deposited in
the General Fund.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
§ 12-1-13 VALUE EXCEEDING $50; SCOPE OF SECTIONS.
   All the subsequent sections of this chapter pertaining to junk apply to
junk, and only to junk, which the City Manager or his or her designee shall
have determined in accordance with this chapter to have a fair market value in
excess of $50.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
§ 12-1-14 INQUIRY; NOTICE.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall make inquiry concerning
ownership of, and possessory or any other legal interests in, the impounded
junk, unless he or she already shall be duly informed in regard thereto. He or
she then shall give notice by certified mail addressed to the person or persons
who are or appear or claim to be the owner(s) of, or to have a possessory or
other interest in the junk. The notice should state if junk is not claimed as
provided this chapter, by a date to be specified in the notice, which shall be
not less than 30 days after the notice was mailed, the junk may be sold by the
City Manager or his or her designee at public auction after that date, and a
part or the whole of the proceeds may be retained by the city.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
§ 12-1-15 CLAIM; INFORMATION.
   Any person claiming the junk, or a part thereof, shall file with the City
Manager or his or her designee, before the junk shall have been sold by the
City Manager or his or her designee, a written claim, on a form to be supplied
by the City Manager or his or her designee, wherein is stated the alleged
ownership or possessory or other interest of the claimant in the junk, and a
demand for its release to the claimant. The City Manager or his or her
designee, whether or not such a claim is filed, shall inform whoever claims the
junk, or makes inquiry, concerning the circumstances upon which were based the
removal and impoundment of the junk, and the amount of expense of removal,
impoundment, and storage of the junk, the cost of postage on, and publication
of, notices mailed as provided in this chapter, and the expense of the
advertising, if any, of a proposed sale of the junk.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
§ 12-1-16 DETERMINATION; EXPENSES; PAYMENT; RELEASE.
   If the City Manager or his or her designee shall determine the claimant to
be the owner of the junk, or to have an interest in the junk entitling him or
her to the possession thereof upon compliance with the requirements of this
section, the City Manager or his or her designee shall release the junk to the
claimant upon payment by the claimant to the City Clerk of the expenses
referred to in §
12-1-15 of this chapter, as determined by the City Manager or his or her
designee; otherwise, the City Manager or his or h er designee shall deny the
claim. The City Manager or his or her designee shall enter in writing his or
her determinations in this regard and, upon request of the claimant, shall
supply to the claimant a copy thereof.
(Ord. 3451, passed - -1995)
§ 12-1-17 SALE; NOTICE.
   If no claim to the junk shall have been filed with the City Manager or his
or her designee as provided in this chapter within 30 days after a notice was
mailed in accordance with this chapter, or if such a claim was filed, and by
the City Manager or his or her designee, denied as provided in this chapter,
the City Manager or his or her designee may cause a notice of a public auction
of the junk to be published one time in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city not less than ten nor more than 20 days prior to the auction.
The notice shall state the time and place of the auction and list the junk to
be sold. A copy of the published notice shall be mailed by the City Manager or
his or her designee to each person who is or appears or claims to be the owner
(s) of, or to have a possessory or other interest in the junk.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
§ 12-1-18 SALE; PROCEEDS.
   If the junk has not been released to a claimant prior to the sale as
provided in this chapter, the City Manager or his or her designee shall sell
the junk or cause it to be sold at public auction at the time and place and in
the manner, if any, specified in the notice. The proceeds shall, by the City
Manager or his or her designee, be delivered to the City Clerk, and shall be
applied in reimbursement of the expense which was incurred by the city, as
determined by the City Manager or his or her designee, in removing, impounding,
storing, and selling the junk (including all of the expenses referred to §
12-1-15 of this chapter), and the excess, if any, shall be held by the City
Treasurer, without interest, for the benefit of the owner of the junk, or of
anyone having a prior right thereto, for a period of two years. If not claimed
within such period, such excess shall be paid into the General Fund of the
city.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
§ 12-1-19 LIABILITY.
   Neither the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises from which the junk
was removed, or of premises which abutted a sidewalk, street, or alley space,
parking, or other public place from which the junk was removed, nor the city,
or any officer, employee, or contractual agent thereof shall be liable to any
person for loss or damage to any junk which occurs during its removal,
impoundment, storage, or disposition by the city as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
VIOLATIONS
§ 12-1-20 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   It is a Class II violation to permit a nuisance to exist or continue in
violation of this chapter or of any notice served as provided in this chapter.
Each day on which a violation occurs shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense. The provision defining each day as a separate offense shall not be
applicable to nuisances described in §
12-1-3(R) of this chapter. In addition, the sentencing court may order such
person to reimburse the city for the fair and reasonable costs incurred by the
city in removing the nuisance.
(Ord. 3452, passed - -1995)
CHAPTER 13: OFFENSES
   Article
      
1.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
      
2.   OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
      
3.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
4.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
      
5.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
      
6.   OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOL
      
7.   OFFENSES INVOLVING DRUGS, NARCOTICS, OR OTHER CHEMICALS
      
8.   OFFENSES INVOLVING GAMBLING
      
9.   OFFENSES INVOLVING PROSTITUTION
      
10.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
ARTICLE 1: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
Section
   
13-1-1   Repealed
   
13-1-1.1   Concealed handguns; prohibited on city property
   
13-1-2   Assaults; threats; battery; prohibited
   
13-1-3   Assaults; provoking; prohibited
   
13-1-3   .1Spitting and expectorating prohibited
   
13-1-4   Violations; classification
§ 13-1-1 REPEALED.
§ 13-1-1.1 CONCEALED HANDGUNS; PROHIBITED ON CITY PROPERTY.
   Pursuant to the Concealed Handgun Permit Act, being Neb. RS 69-2427 et seq.,
the city does hereby prohibit permit holders under the Concealed Handgun Permit
Act from carrying concealed handguns into all buildings owned or leased by the
city.
§ 13-1-2 ASSAULTS; THREATS; BATTERY; PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person within the city to assault or
threaten another in a menacing manner or strike or injure another. Any person
who shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty
of misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-1-3 ASSAULTS; PROVOKING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city intentionally
to provoke or attempt to provoke an assault upon himself, herself or another by
the uttering of grossly vile or insulting epithets applied to the assailed
party or one so attempting to commit an assault, or to curse or swear at a
person or use grossly vile names, or slander, or abuse the character of another
person with the intention of provoking an assault by such person.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-1-3.1 SPITTING AND EXPECTORATING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to intentionally,
knowingly, or recklessly spit or expectorate upon any person within the city.
(Ord. 3622, passed - -1999)
§ 13-1-4 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class I violation.
ARTICLE 2: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
13-2-1   Larceny; prohibited
   
13-2-2   Theft by shoplifting
   
13-2-3   Destruction of property; prohibited
   
13-2-4   Breaking glass; defacing buildings; prohibited
   
13-2-5   Trees; destruction; injuring; prohibited
   
13-2-6   Public utility property; injuring; prohibited
   
13-2-7   Posted advertisements; destruction; injuring; interference with;
prohibited
   
13-2-8   Molesting property; prohibited
   
13-2-9   Entry and remaining on property; when prohibited
   
13-2-9   .1Parking vehicle on property not owned by owner of the vehicle; when
prohibited; removal; rights of city and owner of vehicle
   
13-2-10   Same; specific restrictions
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see Neb. RS 28-519
   Theft, see Neb. RS 28-510 et seq.
   Trespass, see Neb. RS 28-520 et seq.
§ 13-2-1 LARCENY; PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person within the city to steal any
money, goods, or chattels of any kind whatsoever. Any person who shall within
the city steal property of any kind whatsoever, whether the same be wholly in
money or wholly in property of some other character, or partly in money and
partly in other property, of the value of less than $300 shall be deemed guilty
of a Class I violation.
§ 13-2-2 THEFT BY SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a theft by shoplifting.
A person commits a theft by shoplifting when he or she, with the intent of
appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without paying for the same, or
to deprive the owner of possession of such property or its retail value, in
whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (1)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (2)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (3)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (4)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tags for another item of merchandise; or
      (5)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 2885, passed - -1984)
§ 13-2-3 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city purposely, willfully,
maliciously, or recklessly to destroy or injure, or aid in destroying or
injuring, in any manner, any real or personal property of any description,
belonging to another person, or in charge of another as agent or factor. A
violation of any provision of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 3358, passed - -1994)
§ 13-2-4 BREAKING GLASS; DEFACING BUILDINGS; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to willfully, maliciously, or
wantonly break the glass or any part thereof, or otherwise mar, or in any
manner, deface any building, not his or her own, within the city. A violation
of any provision of this section is a Class II violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-2-5 TREES; DESTRUCTION; INJURING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to willfully, maliciously, or
wantonly cut down, destroy, or injure, by girdling, tapping, or otherwise, any
tree not his or her own that is standing or growing for shade, ornament, or any
other useful purpose within the city. A violation of any provision of this
section is a Class II violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-2-6 PUBLIC UTILITY PROPERTY; INJURING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, company, or association of
persons to interfere with, cut, injure, remove, break, destroy, or deface, any
pole, wire, fixture, instrument, or other property of any telegraph, telephone,
cable television, electric or gas company, or association used in the operation
of any telegraph, telephone, cable television, electric line, or gas business
within the city. A violation of any provision of this section is a Class II
violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-2-7 POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS; DESTRUCTION; INJURING; INTERFERENCE WITH;
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear down,
deface, or cover up any posted advertisement, or bill of any person, firm, or
corporation when the same is rightfully posted and put up, and during the time
such sign or advertisement shall be of value. A violation of any provision of
this section is a Class II violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-2-8 MOLESTING PROPERTY; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city to wantonly
or prankishly daub or mark the windows of others with soap or other substance,
or remove signs, overturn out-buildings, ground swings, or in any manner
disturb or molest any property of another at any time. A violation of any
provision of this section is a Class II violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-2-9 ENTRY AND REMAINING ON PROPERTY; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, if he or she knows that he or she
is not licensed or privileged to do so:
      (1)   To enter or secretly remain in any building or occupied structure,
or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof; or
      (2)   To enter or remain in any place as to which notice against trespass
is given by actual communication to the actor; posting in a manner prescribed
by law or reasonably likely to come to the attention of intruders; or fencing
or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude intruders. Provided, it is an
affirmative defense to prosecution under division (A)(1) above that the
building or occupied structure was abandoned, and to a prosecution under either
this division (B)(2) or division (A)(1) above that the premises were at the
time open to members of the public, and the actor complied with all lawful
conditions imposed on access to or remaining in the premises, or that the actor
reasonably believed that the owner of the premises or other person empowered to
license access thereto would have licensed him or her to enter or remain.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 2885, passed - -1984)
§ 13-2-9.1 PARKING VEHICLE ON PROPERTY NOT OWNED BY OWNER OF THE VEHICLE; WHEN
PROHIBITED; REMOVAL; RIGHTS OF CITY AND OWNER OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on any property
which is not owned by the person parking the vehicle, where:
      (1)   Notice against trespass has been given by actual communication to
the actor, posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to come
to the attention of intruders, or fencing or other enclosure manifestly
designed to exclude intruders; or
      (2)   Considering all relevant circumstances, a reasonable person would
know that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so.
   (B)   A violation of this section is a Class II violation.
   (C)   A police officer may remove or convey, or cause to be removed and
conveyed, by towing or otherwise, any vehicle parked in violation of this
section. The vehicle may be taken to the vehicle pound or to a lot maintained
by a business which was hired to tow the vehicle.
   (D)   The disposition of a vehicle removed pursuant to this section, and the
rights of the owner of such a vehicle, shall be as provided in
Chapter 22, Article 9 of this code, except that §
22-9-6 of this code shall have no application to vehicles removed pursuant to
this section.
§ 13-2-10 SAME; SPECIFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Without limitation upon any restriction contained in §
13-2-9 of this article, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Knowingly, between the hours of sunset and sunrise as established
by the United States Nautical Almanac Office Publication of Sunrise and Sunset
Tables, enter upon any privately-owned real property which is not available to
the use of the public, unless such person has obtained the consent of the owner
or person in possession or control thereof;
      (2)   Lodge, camp, or sleep in any public way, park, or place except at
authorized camping areas; or
      (3)   Lodge in any vehicle, or to occupy any vehicle without the
permission of the owner or person entitled to possession.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 2885, passed - -1984)
ARTICLE 3: OFFENSES RELATING TO PUBLIC PEACE
Section
Disturbing the Peace
   
13-3-1   Disorderly conduct; prohibited
   
13-3-2   Same; defined
   
13-3-3   Disturbing peace; prohibited
   
13-3-4   Begging; defined; prohibited
   
13-3-5    – 13-3-8Reserved
Disorderly Houses
   
13-3-9   Disorderly house; defined
   
13-3-10   Disorderly house; prohibited; nuisance
   
13-3-11   Disorderly house; inmate; visiting; prohibited
   
13-3-12   Disorderly house; abatement; procedure
   
13-3-13    – 13-3-14Reserved
Excessive Noise
   
13-3-15   Excessive noise; finding; declaration
   
13-3-16   Same; prohibited
   
13-3-17   Same; standards; particular noises
   
13-3-18   Same; exemptions
   
13-3-19   Same; special permit
   
13-3-20   Same; nuisance
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing the peace, see Neb. RS 28-1322
DISTURBING THE PEACE
§ 13-3-1 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city to indulge or
engage in any riotous, tumultuous, or disorderly conduct; to take part in any
disorderly assembly; to be an inmate of a disorderly house or attend or visit
any such house; to fight by agreement or otherwise; to quarrel; to engage in
lewd, indecent, or lascivious behavior; or to do or engage in any other
disorderly act or conduct tending to disturb the peace and quiet of the city. A
violation of any provision of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-3-2 SAME; DEFINED.
   (A)   Disorderly conduct shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Threatening, abusive, or insulting conduct or behavior, if uttered
or, as the case may be, engaged in with intent to provoke a breach of the
peace, or whereby a breach of the peace may be occasioned, on the part of other
persons present;
      (2)   Language or other conduct or behavior which annoys and is uttered
or, as the case may be, engaged in with intent to provoke a breach of the peace
on the part of other persons present;
      (3)   Loitering or other conduct which obstructs or interferes with the
passage of persons upon a public street, avenue, road, alley, bridge, sidewalk,
highway, or any public way or place used for the passage of persons, if the
obstruction or interference continues or commences after the police have
ordered the person or persons so doing to cease and desist or to move on; and
      (4)   Loitering about any school or public place at which children
congregate, with an apparent intent to molest any child under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section:
      (1)   Language, conduct, or behavior shall be deemed to be threatening,
abusive, insulting, or annoying if it would be so regarded by a person of
ordinary sensibilities in the community; and
      (2)   LOITER shall mean to linger, delay, be dilatory, stand, sit,
saunter, lag behind, move slowly about, loaf, or spend time idly.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1918, passed - -1972)
§ 13-3-3 DISTURBING PEACE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city, to disturb
the peace and quiet of any other person, family, or neighbor, on any public
assembly or assemblies of persons for religious worship or for any other
purpose, by any loud or unusual noise, boisterous laughing or talking,
hollering, quarreling, swearing, obscene or indecent language, or by any other
manner or device whatsoever. A violation of any provision of this section is a
Class I violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-3-4 BEGGING; DEFINED; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to beg if such begging occurs:
      (1)   Any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before
sunrise;
      (2)   In a manner that involves the person begging knowingly engaging in
conduct toward the person solicited that is intimidating, threatening,
coercive, or obscene and that causes the person solicited to reasonably fear
for his or her safety;
      (3)   In a manner that involves the person begging knowingly directing
fighting words to the person solicited;
      (4)   In a manner that involves the person begging knowingly touching or
grabbing the person solicited;
      (5)   In a manner that involves the person begging knowingly continuing
to request the person solicited for a gift of money or thing of value after the
person solicited has refused the beggar’s initial request;
      (6)   In a manner that involves the person begging knowingly soliciting
an at-risk person;
      (7)   On a sidewalk or other passageway in a public place used by
pedestrians, and is done in a manner that obstructs the passage of the person
solicited or that requires the person solicited to take evasive action to avoid
physical contact with the person begging or with any other person;
      (8)   Within 100 feet of an automatic teller machine;
      (9)   In a parking garage, parking lot, or other parking facility; or
      (10)   When the person solicited is entering or exiting a parked motor
vehicle, in a motor vehicle stopped on a street, or present within the patio or
sidewalk serving area of a retail business establishment that serves food and/
or drink.
   (B)   As used in this section, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this division (B).
      AT-RISK PERSON. A natural person who is 60 years of age or older, under
18 years of age, or who is a person with a disability. A person with a
disability shall mean, for purposes of this section, a person of any age who
suffers from one or more substantial physical or mental impairments that render
the person significantly less able to defend against criminal acts directed
toward such person than he or she would be without such physical or mental
impairments. A substantial physical or mental impairment shall be deemed to
include, without limitation, the loss of, or the loss of use of, a hand or
foot; loss of, or severe diminishment of, eyesight; loss of, or severe
diminishment of, hearing; loss of, or severe diminishment of, the ability to
walk; and any developmental disability, psychological disorder, mental illness,
or neurological condition that substantially impairs a person’s ability to
function physically or that substantially impairs a person’s judgment or
capacity to recognize reality or to control behavior.
      BEG. To knowingly approach, accost, or stop another person in a public
place and solicit that person, whether by spoken words, bodily gestures,
written signs, or other means, for a gift of money or thing of value.
      KNOWINGLY. With respect to the conduct or circumstances described in this
section, that a person is aware that such person’s conduct is of that nature or
that the circumstances exist. With respect to a result of such conduct, this
means that a person is aware that such person’s conduct is practically certain
to cause the result.
      OBSCENE. A blatantly offensive description of an ultimate sexual act or
solicitation to commit an ultimate sexual act, whether or not such ultimate
sexual act is normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including masturbation,
cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus, or excretory functions.
      OBSTRUCT. To render impassible or to render passage unreasonably
inconvenient or hazardous.
(Ord. 3874, passed - -2005)
§§ 13-3-5 – 13-3-8 RESERVED.
DISORDERLY HOUSES
§ 13-3-9 DISORDERLY HOUSE; DEFINED.
   (A)   Any room, house, building, structure, place, or premises wherein or
upon any unlawful or illegal acts are committed in violation of local state or
federal law, or which are kept in such a manner as to disturb, annoy, or
scandalize the public generally, or persons within a particular neighborhood,
is hereby declared to be a disorderly house.
   (B)   Any room, house, building, structure, place, or premises which are
kept, maintained, used, erected, established, or run for any of the following
purposes is hereby declared to be a disorderly house, provided however, that
this shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting, or
restrictive:
      (1)   Prostitution, pandering, or public indecency as those terms are
defined in the state statutes;
      (2)   Unlawful manufacture, cultivation, growth, production, processing,
sale, distribution, storage, use, or possession for any unlawful manufacture,
or use of any controlled substance as that term is defined in the state
statutes;
      (3)   Gambling as that term is defined in the state statutes, or the
keeping of gambling devices as that term is defined in the state statutes;
      (4)   Acts of disturbing the peace or disorderly conduct as those terms
are defined elsewhere in this municipal code;
      (5)   The reception, retention, or disposition of stolen moveable
property of another; or
      (6)   Clairvoyance, fortunetelling, or divination.
(Ord. 3409, passed - -1995)
§ 13-3-10 DISORDERLY HOUSE; PROHIBITED; NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, renter, proprietor, or any other
person or persons to keep, run, or maintain a disorderly house, or to knowingly
collect or permit to be collected therein persons who are engaging in any
unlawful act or to knowingly make, cause, or permit, or suffer to be made
therein any loud or improper noise to the annoyance or disturbance of any
person or neighborhood. A disorderly house is declared to be a public nuisance.
A violation of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 3426, passed - -1995)
§ 13-3-11 DISORDERLY HOUSE; INMATE; VISITING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to become or remain an inmate of any
disorderly house, or to frequent or visit with knowledge of, and participation
in, the illegal activities occurring therein. A violation of this section is a
Class I violation.
(Ord. 3426, passed - -1995)
§ 13-3-12 DISORDERLY HOUSE; ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The procedures in this section are applicable in the event of repeated
incidents of the type described in §
13-3-9(A) of this subchapter. For purposes of this section, REPEATED INCIDENTS
means two or more of such incidents within the immediately preceding 12-month
period, which incidents are documented in writing by a law enforcement agency.
Such incidents need not have resulted in a criminal conviction. The procedures
in this section are also applicable to the situations described in §
13-3-9(2) of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Police Chief may give notice to the owner or occupants of the
disorderly house to cease the conduct. The notice shall be in writing, shall be
served personally or by certified mail, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The location of the disorderly house;
      (2)   A description of the conduct which constitutes the room, house,
building, structure, place, or premises a disorderly house;
      (3)   An order to cease the conduct; and
      (4)   A statement that if the conduct continues, the city may take such
legal action as may be necessary to restrain or suppress the conduct,
specifically including the seeking of an injunction in the District Court.
   (C)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant
may make a written request for a hearing before the City Council. At such
hearing, the City Council shall determine whether the room, house, building,
structure, place, or premises is a disorderly house. If the City Council
determines that the room, house, building, structure, place, or premises is a
disorderly house, the City Council may authorize the appropriate city officers
to commence the appropriate action in court to suppress the conduct if the
conduct does not cease.
(Ord. 3410, passed - -1995)
§§ 13-3-13 – 13-3-14 RESERVED.
EXCESSIVE NOISE
§ 13-3-15 EXCESSIVE NOISE; FINDING; DECLARATION.
   It is found and declared that:
   (A)   The making and creation of excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud
noises within the corporate limits of the city is a condition that has existed
for some time, and the extent and volume of such noises is increasing;
   (B)   The making, creation, or maintenance of such excessive unnecessary or
unusually loud noises which are prolonged, unusual, or unnatural in their time,
place, and use affect, and are a detriment to public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, welfare, and prosperity of the inhabitants of the city;
and
   (C)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions concerning noise which are hereinafter contained is hereby
declared as a matter of legislative determination and public policy, and it is
further declared that the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained are
in pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public
health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare, and prosperity, and the peace
and quiet of the city and its inhabitants.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1995, passed - -1973)
§ 13-3-16 SAME; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made
or continued any excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noise or any noise
which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of others, within the corporate limits of the city.
Provided, this section shall not apply to noise that by §
13-6-18 of this subchapter is declared to be exempt from the provisions of this
section, or to the noise caused or permitted by a person to whom a permit has
been granted as provided in § 13-6-19 of this subchapter. A violation of any
provision of this section, or of any provision of a permit granted as provided
in § 13-6-19 of this subchapter, is a Class II violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1995, passed - -1973)
§ 13-3-17 SAME; STANDARDS; PARTICULAR NOISES.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noises in violation of §
13-3-16 of this subchapter, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive:
   (A)   Animals, birds, and miscellaneous pets. The keeping of any animal or
bird which by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the
comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity;
   (B)   Blowers. The operation of any noise creating blower or power fan,
unless such blower or fan is muffled sufficiently to prevent loud noises
therefrom;
   (C)   Construction and repairing of buildings. The erection (including
excavation), demolition, alteration, or repair of any building other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in case of
urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then only
with a permit in writing from the Chief Building Inspector, which permit may be
granted for a period not to exceed three days or less, while the emergency
continues, and which permit may be renewed for periods of three days or less
while the emergency continues. If the Chief Building Inspector determines that
the public health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition,
alteration, or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., and if he or she shall further
determine that loss or inconvenience would otherwise result to any party in
interest, he or she may grant permission for such work to be done between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., upon application being made at the time the
permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of the work. If the City
Council shall by resolution determine that unusual circumstances, including but
not limited to the aftermath of a severe storm, exist throughout the city which
circumstances necessitate a large volume of construction or repair work
throughout a large portion of the city, the City Council may declare that,
notwithstanding with provisions of this section, the erection, demolition,
alteration, or repair of buildings may occur between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m., seven days a week, during the period of time stipulated by the City
Council in the resolution;
   (D)   Defect in vehicles and load. The operation of any motor vehicle,
motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of repair so loaded or in such manner as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;
   (E)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, tractor, steam engine, stationary internal combustion
engine, or motorboat, except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom. The muffler of a motor
vehicle or motorcycle shall be of a type that will muffle noise not less
effectively than the standard muffler with which a vehicle of that type
originally was equipped by the manufacturer of the vehicle, shall not be of a
design that permits operation in a manner allowing greater noise, and shall be
kept in good repair. Provided, this requirement shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles, or to motor vehicles or motorcycles designed or modified
for off-highway sanctioned racing purposes, while being towed on the streets;
   (F)   Horns, signaling and other devices. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any
street or public place of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by
means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound and
the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of
time; the use of any horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine exhaust;
and the use of any such signaling device by which traffic is for any reason
held up;
   (G)   Loading, unloading, and opening boxes. The creation of a loud and
excessive noise connection with loading or unloading any vehicle, or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and containers;
   (H)   Pile drivers, hammers, and equipment. The operation between the hours
of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer,
derrick, steam or electric hoist, or other appliance, the use of which is
attended by loud or unusual noise;
   (I)   Quiet zones. The creation of an excessive noise within any quiet zone
established by the City Council which unreasonably interferes with the use of
the premises, or disturbs or unduly annoys occupants or users of the premises
for the benefit of whom the quiet zone has been established;
   (J)   Shouting and hallooing. Shouting or loud hallooing which unreasonably
interferes with the comfort or report of any person in the vicinity;
   (K)   Sound reproduction. The use or operation of any radio or other
mechanical or electrical devices or instruments amplifying and reproducing the
human voice, or any sound or noise, in any public or private place, or from any
vehicle, in such manner that the peace and good order of the neighborhood are
disturbed, or that persons owning, using, or occupying property in the
neighborhood are disturbed or annoyed, provided that the Director of Parks and
Recreation may allow the use of amplified sound at a special event under the
terms as specified elsewhere in this municipal code. Provided further, that
where no special event as described in this code is involved, the City Council
may grant permission for the erection and use of temporary radio speakers, and
other mechanical or electrical devices or instruments amplifying and
reproducing the human voice, or any sound or noise at a fixed location, or on
moving vehicles, as part of a celebration or commemoration of a patriotic or
historic event, or national or state holiday, or local celebration, or at
gatherings of a public nature, and at such other times as the City Council may
see fit; provided, further, the City Council, in granting such permission,
shall expressly designate the time such permission shall continue;
   (L)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work, or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of city
authorities; or
   (M)   Engine brakes. The use of engine brakes on any vehicle within the
city.
(Ord 3658, passed - -2000)
§ 13-3-18 SAME; EXEMPTIONS.
   The following noises shall be exempt from the provisions of §
13-3-16 of this subchapter:
   (A)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, and emergency pressure-
relief valves;
   (B)   Noises caused by any Police or Fire Department vehicle or any
authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call or acting in
time of emergency; or
   (C)   Noises caused by the operation of snow removal equipment being used to
remove snow.
(Ord. 3490, passed - -1996)
§ 13-3-19 SAME; SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a permit to cause or permit noise otherwise
prohibited by this article on the basis of undue hardship, may be made to the
City Manager, or another city employee designated by the City Manager to
perform this function, may grant the relief as applied for if he or she finds
that:
      (1)   Additional time is necessary for the applicant to alter or modify
his or her activity or operation to comply with this article;
      (2)   The activity, operation, or noise source will be of temporary
duration, and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with other
subsections of this section; and
      (3)   No other reasonable alternative is available to the applicant.
   (B)   The City Manager may prescribe any conditions or requirements he or
she deems necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the community or the
surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1995, passed - -1973)
§ 13-3-20 SAME; NUISANCE.
   The making of a noise or noises in violation of §
13-6-16 of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and may
be abated as such. This remedy is in addition to and not in lieu of other
remedies provided by this article for violation of such section.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1995, passed - -1973)
ARTICLE 4: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
13-4-1   Firearms; discharge; prohibited; exception
   
13-4-2   Switchblade knives; possession; prohibited; defined
   
13-4-3   Other arms; toy weapons; discharge; prohibited
   
13-4-4   Public buildings; exit doors; obstructions; lighting; violations;
classification
§ 13-4-1 FIREARMS; DISCHARGE; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol, fowling piece, or other
firearm within the city. The provisions of this section shall not apply to: a
police officer or law enforcement officer in the discharge of his or her duty;
an animal control officer as defined in
Chapter 2 of this code in the discharge of his or her duty; and any person who
in places or during activities which the City Manager or the designee of the
City Manager has approved under special regulations for practicing the use of a
firearm, or giving exhibitions, or holding competitions in the use of firearms
which are sponsored by a law enforcement organization or the Nebraska Game and
Parks Commission, and are monitored and supervised by such organization. A
violation of any provision of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 3988, passed - -2009)
§ 13-4-2 SWITCHBLADE KNIVES; POSSESSION; PROHIBITED; DEFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or about his or her person,
or otherwise to have in his or her possession or control, any switchblade
knife. A switchblade knife shall mean and include any knife having a spring or
other device that will open the blade and lock it in an open position. A
violation of any provision of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-4-3 OTHER ARMS; TOY WEAPONS; DISCHARGE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to discharge, or cause to be
discharged, any toy pistol, toy gun, air gun, or any other arm or arms, or any
slingshot loaded with rock or leaden, or other dangerous missiles at any time
or under any circumstances within the city, except as provided in this chapter.
Provided, this section shall not apply to toy cap pistols or toy cap guns. A
violation of any provision of this section is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 2672, passed - -1981)
§ 13-4-4 PUBLIC BUILDINGS; EXIT DOORS; OBSTRUCTIONS; LIGHTING; VIOLATIONS;
CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   The doors of all exits from buildings occupied as churches, school
buildings, theaters for dramatic, operatic, or similar performances, or as
picture shows, or used for any public gatherings or meetings shall, during
every performance, meeting, or gathering within the building, be and remain
unbarred and unlocked. No temporary seats or obstructions of any character
shall, while such building is in use, be permitted to be or remain in any
aisle, passageway, exit, entrance, or stairway. No obstructions of any
character, either movable or immovable, shall, while any such building is in
use, be placed or left in any lobby or in front of any outer door or exit. No
person shall be permitted to remain in any aisle or on any stairway of any such
building while the building is in use. The hallways and stairways in such
buildings shall be well-lighted.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of this section is a Class I violation.
Each 24 hours of refusal or neglect to obey any provision of this section shall
be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
ARTICLE 5: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC AUTHORITY
Section
   
13-5-1   Police; resisting; hindering; refusal to assist; prohibited
   
13-5-2   Criminal impersonation; penalty
   
13-5-3   Protection of dogs used in law enforcement
   
13-5-4   Violations; classification
Statutory reference:
   Impersonating a peace officer, see Neb. RS 28-610
   Refusing to aid a peace officer, see Neb. RS 28-903
§ 13-5-1 POLICE; RESISTING; HINDERING; REFUSAL TO ASSIST; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully to hinder,
obstruct, or resist any police officer or any police officer in making any
arrest or performing any other duty of his or her office, or to refuse or
neglect to assist any police officer or police officer when called upon by him
or her in the making of any arrest, or the conveying of a prisoner to jail.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-5-2 CRIMINAL IMPERSONATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of impersonating a police officer if he
or she falsely pretends to be a police officer and performs any act in that
pretended capacity.
   (B)   A person who commits the offense of impersonating a city employee if
he or she falsely pretends to be a city employee other than a police officer
and performs any act in that pretended capacity. There is no defense to the
prosecution under this division (B) if the office the actor pretended to hold
did not in fact exist.
§ 13-5-3 PROTECTION OF DOGS USED IN LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLICE DOG shall mean any dog used by
the Police Department or by any personnel of the Department in the performance
of any of the functions or duties of the Department or its personnel.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully and maliciously harass, taunt, torment, tease, or
frighten any police dog;
      (2)   Interfere with or meddle with any police dog while being used in
the performance of its duties; or
      (3)   Willfully and maliciously torture, mutilate, injure, disable,
poison, or kill any police dog.
(Ord. 3241, passed - -1992)
§ 13-5-4 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class I violation.
ARTICLE 6: OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOL
Section
General Provisions
   
13-6-1   Alcoholic liquor; consumption; open containers; places unlawful
   
13-6-2   Same; place open to general public; hours; restrictions
   
13-6-3   Alcoholic liquor; employer; principal liability
   
13-6-4   Violations; classification
   
13-6-5   Place of public resort; defined
   
13-6-6   Reserved
Permits for Recreational or Special Events in Public Places
   
13-6-7   Other recreational events; organizations; permit
   
13-6-8   Same; permit; application; time; notice
   
13-6-9   Same; permit; application; contents
   
13-6-10   Same; permit; consumption of beer; standards for issuance
   
13-6-11   Same; permit; contents
   
13-6-12   Same; permit; notice
   
13-6-13   Same; permit; denial
   
13-6-14   Same; permittee; responsible individual; duties
   
13-6-15   Same; permit; revocation
   
13-6-16   Arts Center; special events; permit
   
13-6-17   Same; application
   
13-6-18   Same; permit; standards for issuance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 13-6-1 ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR; CONSUMPTION; OPEN CONTAINERS; PLACES UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To consume or have in his or her possession any open container of
alcoholic liquor in the public streets, alleys, roads, highway, or parking
areas, or any other property owned by or under the control of the state or any
governmental subdivision, except as provided in this article;
      (2)   To consume or have in his or her possession any open container of
alcoholic liquor in any place of public resort or any place open to the general
public (including parking areas or lots) except as permitted by a license
issued for the premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, being Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq.;
      (3)   To consume or have in his or her possession any open container of
alcoholic liquor inside a motor vehicle unless the alcoholic liquor is located
so that no occupant of the motor vehicle shall have access to it while the
vehicle is in motion; or
      (4)   To consume any alcoholic liquor other than beer upon a premise
licensed for the sale of beer at retail only.
   (B)   A container of alcoholic liquor shall be considered an “open
container” if the seal of the original package is broken.
(Ord. 3641, passed - -2000)
§ 13-6-2 SAME; PLACE OPEN TO GENERAL PUBLIC; HOURS; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any dance hall, restaurant, café, club, or place of public resort to
permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon the premises,
except as permitted by a license previously issued to such premises pursuant to
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
(Ord. 3641, passed - -2000)
§ 13-6-3 ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR; EMPLOYER; PRINCIPAL LIABILITY.
   The act or omission of any employee or agent who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
13-6-1 or
13-6-2 of this subchapter shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
employer or principal had personally so acted or omitted to act.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-6-4 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article, or of any provision of a
permit granted pursuant to this article, is a Class II violation.
§ 13-6-5 PLACE OF PUBLIC RESORT; DEFINED.
   The term PLACE OF PUBLIC RESORT as used in this article means any structure,
building, house, dwelling, room, or space whereat for a money consideration,
persons may gather and be provided with food, refreshment, entertainment,
amusement, or recreation, regardless of whether such place is held open to the
general public, or is a private business or is restricted to a selected group,
such as members of a club or association, or persons invited to a private
party. Provided however, that a private party in a structure, building, house,
room, or space owned or rented by a non-profit corporation shall not be deemed
to be occurring in a place of public resort.
(Ord 3641, passed - -2000)
§ 13-6-6 RESERVED.
PERMITS FOR RECREATIONAL OR SPECIAL EVENTS IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 13-6-7 OTHER RECREATIONAL EVENTS; ORGANIZATIONS; PERMIT.
   The City Council may authorize the City Clerk to issue a permit to a non-
profit organization conducting or sponsoring a special event as that term is
defined in Chapter 15 of this code, or other event in an area maintained by the
city, under which there will be permitted on the premises during the event the
consumption of beer or wine, or both, by adult participants in the event and
their adult invited guests. Provided, however, that this section shall have no
application to William Frank Park, Pioneer Park, or Terry Carpenter Park.
(Ord. 3739, passed - -2002)
§ 13-6-8 SAME; PERMIT; APPLICATION; TIME; NOTICE.
   A person seeking issuance of a permit as provided in §
13-6-7 of this subchapter shall file with the City Clerk an application
addressed to the City Council, on a form provided by the City Clerk. The
application shall be filed not less than ten days before a regularly scheduled
meeting of the City Council, and the City Clerk shall cause copies of the
application to be delivered promptly to the Police Chief and Director of Parks
and Recreation; provided, the City Council, for good cause, may accept and act
upon an application not filed within such period. The words “ten days” shall
not include Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
(Ord. 2672, passed - -1981)
§ 13-6-9 SAME; PERMIT; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   The application for the permit shall set forth:
   (A)   The name of the organization, the address, and telephone number of the
headquarters, if any, of the organization;
   (B)   The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the authorized
and responsible head(s) of the organization;
   (C)   The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the person(s) who
will be present and in charge of the event and responsible for its conduct;
   (D)   The nature of the event;
   (E)   The approximate number of persons who will participate in the event
and of invited guests, if any;
   (F)   The place of the event;
   (G)   The date(s) of the event and the hours during which it will be
conducted; and
   (H)   Any additional information which the City Clerk shall find reasonably
necessary to enable the City Council to determine whether a permit should be
issued.
(Ord. 2672, passed - -1981)
§ 13-6-10 SAME; PERMIT; CONSUMPTION OF BEER; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The City Council may direct the issuance of a permit as provided in §
13-6-7 of this subchapter when, from a consideration of the application and
from such other information as may otherwise be obtained, it finds that the
presence and consumption of beer on the premises during the event is not likely
to result in alcohol-related violations of law on or within the vicinity of the
premises, or to require the diversion of so great a number of police officers
of the city to properly police the area where the event will be conducted and
areas contiguous thereto, as to prevent normal police protection to the city.
(Ord. 2672, passed - -1981)
§ 13-6-11 SAME; PERMIT; CONTENTS.
   Each permit:
   (A)   Shall state the name of the organization to which issued and the
nature, date, hours, and place of the event; and
   (B)   May include such reasonable restrictions or conditions, including but
not limited to the providing of insurance, as the City Council shall determine,
to be in the public interest or, as the case may be, the interest of the
participants.
(Ord. 2672, passed - -1981)
§ 13-6-12 SAME; PERMIT; NOTICE.
   If the City Council shall direct issuance of a permit, the City Clerk, upon
issuing the permit, shall send a copy to the Police Chief and Director of Parks
and Recreation.
(Ord. 2672, passed - -1981)
§ 13-6-13 SAME; PERMIT; DENIAL.
   If the City Council denies the application, the City Clerk shall mail or
deliver to the applicant, within one day after the denial, a notice in writing
of the denial, stating the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 2672, passed - -1981)
§ 13-6-14 SAME; PERMITTEE; RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUAL; DUTIES.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and all applicable provisions of the municipal
code. The responsible individual or other person who is present and in charge
of the event shall carry the permit upon his or her person during the event.
(Ord. 2672, passed - -1981)
§ 13-6-15 SAME; PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   The City Council may order a permit issued hereunder to be revoked by the
City Clerk if it finds that the standards for issuance set forth in this
article will not, or probably will not, be met notwithstanding the exercise of
reasonable diligence on the part of the Police Department. The City Clerk,
within one day after such order, shall issue a revocation of the permit and
mail or deliver to the permittee a notice in writing of the revocation, stating
the reason therefor.
(Ord. 2672, passed - -1981)
§ 13-6-16 ARTS CENTER; SPECIAL EVENTS; PERMIT.
   The City Council may authorize the City Clerk to issue a permit to West
Nebraska Arts Center, a non-profit organization, operating an arts gallery and
conducting arts-related recreational activities for the public under a lease
from the city, under which there will be permitted, incidental to a special
arts-related event conducted by the Arts Center on the leased premises, the
consumption of complimentary wine by adults attending the event.
(Ord. 2865, passed - -1984)
§ 13-6-17 SAME; APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Arts Center, when seeking such a permit, shall file with the City
Clerk an application therefor not less than seven days prior to the meeting of
the City Council at which the application is to be considered; provided, the
City Council, for good cause, may waive the time for filing the application.
   (B)   The application shall set forth:
      (1)   A description of the event and the date(s) and hours during which
it will be conducted;
      (2)   The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the person(s)
who will be present and in charge of the event; and
      (3)   Any additional information which the City Clerk shall find
reasonably necessary to enable the City Council to determine whether a permit
should be issued.
(Ord. 2865, passed - -1984)
§ 13-6-18 SAME; PERMIT; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The City Clerk shall issue a permit as provided in §
13-6-16 of this subchapter if the City Council finds, from a consideration of
the application and from such other information as may be received, that the
event will be one for which provision is made in §
13-6-16 of this subchapter, that the application is otherwise in sufficient
form and, in addition, that complimentary consumption of wine on the premises
by adults incidental to the subject event will not be inconsistent with the
requirements or purposes of the lease to the premises, or with proper
enforcement of the liquor control laws of the state and the city.
(Ord. 2887, passed - -1984)
ARTICLE 7: OFFENSES INVOLVING DRUGS, NARCOTICS, OR OTHER CHEMICALS
Section
   
13-7-1   Controlled substance; equipment; possession
   
13-7-2   Same; defined
   
13-7-3   Drug; defined
   
13-7-4   Marijuana; defined
   
13-7-5   Narcotic drug; defined
   
13-7-6   Opiate; defined
   
13-7-7   Opium poppy; defined
   
13-7-8   Poppy straw; defined
   
13-7-9   Repealed
   
13-7-10   Chemicals; inhaling; drinking; internal use; prohibited
   
13-7-11   Same; aiding; counseling; furnishing; restricted
   
13-7-12   Same; sale; restricted
   
13-7-13   Same; physicians and surgeons
   
13-7-14   Same; sale; purchase; registration
   
13-7-15   Violations; classification
Statutory reference:
   Drugs and narcotics, see Neb. RS 28-401 et seq.
§ 13-7-1 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE; EQUIPMENT; POSSESSION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess an opium pipe or any
device, contrivance, instrument, or paraphernalia designed for use or
principally used for smoking a controlled substance.
   (B)   It also shall be unlawful for any person to possess a hypodermic
needle or syringe, or any other device, contrivance, instrument, or
paraphernalia designed for use or used for injecting a controlled substance,
except:
      (1)   Licensed drug manufacturers, wholesale drug jobbers, pharmacists,
physicians, dentists, podiatrists, veterinarians, and nurses;
      (2)   Hospital research, teaching and clinical laboratories personnel,
funeral directors, and embalmers;
      (3)   Persons specifically authorized by a licensed physician, dentist,
or podiatrist to use a hypodermic needle or syringe for medical treatment
purposes, while so using the needle, or syringe; and
      (4)   Persons using a hypodermic needle or syringe for the treatment of
livestock.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2531, passed - -1979)
§ 13-7-2 SAME; DEFINED.
   The term CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE shall mean, for the purpose of §
13-7-1 of this article, all drugs and substances listed in the following
schedules, whether listed by official name, generic, common or usual name,
chemical name, brand, or trade name.
   (A)   Schedule I.
      (1)   Any of the following opiates, including their isomers, esters,
ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, esters and ethers, unless specifically
excepted, whenever the existence of such isomers, esters, ethers and salts is
possible within the specific chemical designation: acetylmethadol;
allylprodine; alphacetylmethadol; alphameprodine; alphamethadol; benzethidine;
betacetylmethadol; betameprodine; betamethadol; betaprodine; clonitazene;
dextromoramide; destrorpham; diampromide; diethylthiambutene; dimenoxadol;
dimepheptanol; dimethylthiambutene; diozaphetyl butyrate; dipipanone;
ethylmethylthiambutene; etonitazene; etoxeridine; furethidine;
hydroxypethidine; ketobemidone; levomoramide; levophenacylmorphan;
morpheridine; noracymethadol; norlevorphanol; normethadone; norpipanone;
phenadoxone; phenampromide; phenomorphan; phenoperidine; piritramide;
proheptazine; properidine; racemoramide; and trimeperidine.
      (2)   Any of the following opium derivatives, their salts, isomers, and
salts of isomers, unless specifically excepted, whenever the existence of such
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical
designation: acetorphine; acetyldihydrocodeine; benzylmorphine; codeine
methylbromide; codeine-N-Oxide; cyprenorphine; desomorphine; dihydromorphine;
etorphine; heroine; hydromorphinol; methyldesorphine; methylhydromorphine;
morphine methylbromide; morphine methylsulfonate; morphine-N-Oxide; myrophine;
nicocodeine; nicomorphine; normorphine; phoclodine; and thebacon.
      (3)   Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any
quantity of the following hallucinogenic substances, their salts, isomers, and
salts of isomers, unless specifically excepted, whenever the existence of such
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical
designation: bufotenine; diethyltryptamine; dimethyltryptamine; 4-methyl-2, 5-
dimethoxyamphetamine; ibogaine; lysergic acid diethylamide; marijuana;
mescaline; peyote; psilocybin; psilocyn; tetrahydrocannabinols; 3,4-
methylenedioxy amphetamine; 5-methoxy-3, 4-methylenedioxy amphetamine; 3,4,5-
trimethoxy amphetamine; N-ethyl-3-piperidyl benzilate; and N-methyl-3-piperidyl
benzilate.
   (B)   Schedule II.
      (1)   Any of the following substances except those narcotic drugs listed
in other schedules whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction from
substances of vegetable origin, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis, or by combination of extraction and chemical synthesis:
         (a)   Opium and opiate, and any salt, compound, derivative, or
preparation of opium or opiate;
         (b)   Any salt, compound isomer, derivative, or preparation thereof
which is chemically equivalent to or identical with any of the substances
referred to in this division (B)(1), except that these substances shall not
include the isoquinoline alkaloids of opium;
         (c)   Opium poppy and poppy straw; and
         (d)   Coca leaves and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation
of coca leaves, and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation thereof
which is chemically equivalent to or identical with any of these substances,
except that the substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or
extractions which do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
      (2)   Any of the following opiates, including their isomers, esters,
ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, whenever the existence of such isomers,
esters, ethers, and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation:
alphaprodine; anileridine; bezitramide; diphenoxylate; fentanyl; isomethadone;
levomethorphan; levorphanol; metazocine; methadone; methadone-Intermediate, 4-
cyano-2-dimethylamino-4, 4-diphenyl butane; moramide-Intermediate, 2-methyl-3-
morpholino-1, 1-diphenyl-propanecarboxylic acid; pethidine; pethidine-
Intermediate-A, 4-cyano-1-methyl-4- phenylpiperidine; pethidine-Intermediate-B,
ethyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylate; pethidine- Intermediate-C, 1-methyl-4-
phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylic acid; phenazocine; piminodine; racemethorphan;
racemorphan; and dihydrocodeine.
      (3)   Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule,
any injectable liquid which contains any quantity of methamphetamine, including
its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers.
   (C)   Schedule III.
      (1)   Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any
quantity of the following substances having a potential for abuse associated
with a stimulant effect on the central nervous system: amphetamine, its salts,
optical isomers, and salts of its optical isomers; phenmetrazine and its salts;
any substance, except an injectable liquid, which contains any quantity of
methamphetamine, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers; and
methylphenidate.
      (2)   Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any
quantity of the following substances having a potential for abuse associated
with a depressant effect on the central nervous system: any substance which
contains any quantity of a derivative of barbituric acid, or any salt of a
derivative of barbituric acid, except those substances which are specifically
listed in other schedules of this section; chlorhexadol; glutethimide; lysergic
acid; lysergic acid amide; methyprylon; phencyclidine; sulfondie-thylmethane;
sulfonethylmethane; sulfonmethane; and nalorphine.
      (3)   Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation containing limited
quantities of any of the following narcotic drugs, or any salts thereof:
         (a)   Not more than one and eight-tenths grams of codeine per 100 or
not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with an equal or greater quantity
of an isoquinoline alkaloid of opium;
         (b)   Not more than one and eight-tenths grams of codeine per 100
milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more
active, non-narcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts;
         (c)   Not more than 300 milligrams of dihydrocodeinone per 100
milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with a fourfold or
greater quantity of an isoquinoline alkaloid of opium;
         (d)   Not more than 300 milligrams of dihydrocodeinone per 100
milliliters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage, unit, with one or more
active, non-narcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts;
         (e)   Not more than one and eight-tenths grams of dihydrocodeine per
100 milliliters or not more than 90 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or
more active, non-narcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts;
         (f)   Not more than 300 milligrams of ethylmorphine per 100
millimeters or not more than 15 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more
active, non-narcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts;
         (g)   Not more than 500 milligrams of opium per 100 milliliters or per
100 grams, or not more than 25 milligrams per dosage unit, with one or more
active, non-narcotic ingredients in recognized therapeutic amounts; and
         (h)   Not more than 50 milligrams of morphine per 100 milliliters or
per 100 grams with one or more active, non-narcotic ingredients in recognized
therapeutic amounts.
   (D)   Schedule IV. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which
contains any quantity of the following substances having a potential for abuse,
associated with a depressant effect on the central nervous system: Barbital:
chloral betaine; chloral hydrate; ethchylorvynol; ethinamate; methahexital;
meprobamate; methylphenobarbital; paraldehyde; petrichloral; and phenobarbital.
   (E)   Schedule V.
      (1)   Any compound mixture, or preparation containing limited quantities
of any of the following
narcotic drugs, which shall include one or more non-narcotic active medicinal
ingredients in sufficient proportion to confer upon the compound, mixture, or
preparation, valuable medicinal qualities other than those possessed by the
narcotic drug alone:
         (a)   Not more than 200 milligrams of codeine or any of its salts per
100 milliliters or per 100 grams;
         (b)   Not more than 100 milligrams of dihydrocodeine or any of its
salts per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams;
         (c)   Not more than 100 milligrams of ethylmorphine or any of its
salts per 100 milliliters or per 100 grams;
         (d)   Not more than two and five-tenths milligrams of dipheyoxylate
and not less than 25 micrograms of atropine sulfate per dosage unit; and
         (e)   Not more than 100 milligrams of opium per 100 milliliters or per
100 grams.
      (2)   Any compound, mixture, or preparation, intended for use as an
inhalant or inhaler which contains any quantity of mephentermine.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1904, passed - -1971)
§ 13-7-3 DRUG; DEFINED.
   DRUG.
      (1)   Articles recognized in the official United States Pharmacopoeia,
official Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States, or official National
Formulary, or any supplement to any of them;
      (2)   Substances intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation,
treatment, or prevention of disease in man or animals;
      (3)   Substances, other than food, intended to affect the structure or
any function of the body of man or animals; and
      (4)   Substances intended for use as a component of any article specified
above, but does not include devices or their components, parts, or accessories.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1904, passed - -1971)
§ 13-7-4 MARIJUANA; DEFINED.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant Cannabis sativa L., whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such
plant, its seeds or resin, but shall not include the mature stalks of such
plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil, or cake made from the seeds of
such plant or any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of such mature stalks, except the resin extracted therefrom, fiber,
oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germination; and, where the weight of marijuana is referred to in this article,
it shall mean its weight at or about the time it is seized or otherwise comes
into the possession of a police officer of the city, whether cured or uncured
at that time.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1904, passed - -1971)
§ 13-7-5 NARCOTIC DRUG; DEFINED.
   NARCOTIC DRUG. Any of the following, whether produced directly or indirectly
by extraction from substances of vegetable origin, or independently by means of
chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis:
      (1)   Opium, opium poppy and poppy straw, coca leaves, and opiates;
      (2)   A compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, or preparation of opium,
coca leaves, or opiates;
      (3)   A substance and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, or
preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent to or identical with any of
the substances referred above, except that the words NARCOTIC DRUG as used in
this article shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extracts of coca
leaves, which extracts do not contain cocaine or ecgonine, or isoquinoline
alkaloids of opium.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1904, passed - -1971)
§ 13-7-6 OPIATE; DEFINED.
   OPIATE. Any substance having an addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining
liability similar to morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug having
such addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability. It does not include
the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N methylmorphanian and its salts. It
does include its racemic and levorotatoryforms.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1904, passed - -1971)
§ 13-7-7 OPIUM POPPY; DEFINED.
   OPIUM POPPY. The plant of the species Papaver somniferum L., except the
seeds thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1904, passed - -1971)
§ 13-7-8 POPPY STRAW; DEFINED.
   POPPY STRAW. All parts, except the seeds, of the opium poppy, after mowing.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1904, passed - -1971)
§ 13-7-9 REPEALED.
§ 13-7-10 CHEMICALS; INHALING; DRINKING; INTERNAL USE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to breath, inhale, drink, or in any
manner use internally any toluol, hexane, tricholoethylene, acetone, toluene,
ethyl acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, trichorothan, ispropanol, methyl isbutyl
ketone, methyl collosolve acetate, cyclohexanone, any compound, substance, or
liquid (including, but not limited to, glue, paint, cement, or adhesive)
containing any of such chemicals, or any solvent having the property of
releasing toxic vapors or fumes, for the purpose of inducing a condition of
intoxication, inebriation, stupefaction, depression, giddiness, exhilaration,
paralysis, or irrational behavior or in any manner changing, distorting, or
disturbing the auditory, visual, or mental process or in any way dulling the
brain or nervous system.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1715, passed - -1968)
§ 13-7-11 SAME; AIDING; COUNSELING; FURNISHING; RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to aid or counsel, or furnish
to, another to use for any purpose prohibited by §
13-7-10 of this article any chemical or any compound, substance, or liquid
containing any chemical described in §
13-7-10 of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1715, passed - -1968)
§ 13-7-12 SAME; SALE; RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any chemical, or any compound,
substance or liquid containing any chemical, described in §
13-7-10 of this article for the purpose of use to breathe, inhale, drink, or in
any manner use internally.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1715, passed - -1968)
§ 13-7-13 SAME; PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS.
   Anything in §§
13-7-10,
13-7-11, and
13-7-12 of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the prohibitions and
restrictions contained in such sections shall not apply to the use, the aiding,
or counseling in the use or the furnishing or sale for use, of chemicals, or of
compounds, substances, or liquids containing any of the chemicals described in
§
13-7-10 of this article whenever, in accordance with good medical practice, the
use shall have been directed by and occurs in the presence of a physician or
surgeon duly licensed to practice under the laws of the state, or the sale,
furnishing, or use occurs pursuant to and in accordance with a written
prescription that shall have been issued in accordance with good medical
practice and signed by a physician or surgeon duly licensed to practice under
the laws of the state or any other state.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1715, passed - -1968)
§ 13-7-14 SAME; SALE; PURCHASE; REGISTRATION.
   Any person selling any glue, paint, cement, or other adhesive containing any
of the chemicals specified in §
13-7-10 of this article to a purchaser under the age of 18 years, shall, prior
to making a sale of such product, require the purchaser to sign his or her
name, address, and age in a suitable register of a size and type to be
designated by the Police Chief. Such register shall be open and available at
any time during normal business hours for inspection by the Police Chief or his
or her designated representative. It shall be unlawful for any person to
purchase any of such products without first signing the register maintained for
that purpose by the seller.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1715, passed - -1968)
§ 13-7-15 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class I violation.
ARTICLE 8: OFFENSES INVOLVING GAMBLING
Section
   
13-8-1   Definitions
   
13-8-2   Gambling houses; devices; keeping; prohibited
   
13-8-3   Gambling; prohibited
   
13-8-4   Gambling places; frequenting; prohibited
   
13-8-5   Violations; classification
Statutory reference:
   Gambling, see Neb. RS 28-1101 et seq.
§ 13-8-1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, unless the context otherwise requires.
   (A)   (1)   A person engages in gambling if he or she bets something of
value upon the outcome of a future event, which outcome is determined by an
element of chance, or upon the outcome of a game, contest, or election, or
conduct or participate in any bingo, lottery by the sale of pickle cards,
lottery, raffle, gift enterprise, or other scheme not authorized or conducted
in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act being Neb. RS 9-201 et seq., the
Nebraska County and City Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., the Nebraska
Lottery and Raffle Act being Neb. RS 9-401 et seq., the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-301 et seq., the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle
Act being Neb. RS 9-501 et seq., the State Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-801 et
seq., or Neb. RS 9-701.
      (2)   A person does not engage in gambling by:
         (a)   Entering into a lawful business transaction;
         (b)   Playing an amusement device or a coin-operated mechanical game
which confers as to price an immediate, unrecorded right of replay not
exchangeable of something of value; or
         (c)   Conducting or participating in a prize contest.
   (B)   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any device, machine, paraphernalia, writing, paper,
instrument, article, or equipment that is used or useable for engaging in
gambling, whether that activity consists of gambling between persons, or
gambling by a person involving the playing of a machine. GAMBLING DEVICE shall
also include any mechanical gaming device, computer gaming device, a electronic
gaming device, or video gaming device which has the capability of awarding
something of value, free games redeemable for something of value, instant win
tickets which also provide the possibility of participating in the subsequent
drawing or event, or tickets or stubs redeemable for something of value, except
as authorized in the furtherance of parimutuel wagering. Supplies, equipment,
cards, tickets, stubs, and other items used in any bingo, lottery by the sale
of pickle cards, other lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise conducted in
accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act being Neb. RS 9-201 et seq., the
Nebraska County and City Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., the Nebraska
Lottery and Raffle Act being Neb. RS 9-401 et seq., the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-301 et seq., the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle
Act being Neb. RS 9-501 et seq., the State Lottery Act being Neb. RS 9-801 et
seq., or Neb. RS 9-701 are not gambling devices within this definition.
§ 13-8-2 GAMBLING HOUSES; DEVICES; KEEPING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city to set up or
keep any gambling house, table, room, or place whatever, or gambling device of
whatever form or character, at which any game of chance shall be played for
money or property or other valuable thing or article representing money,
property, or other valuable thing, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
suffer or permit any such gambling device to be set up, kept, or used for the
purpose of gambling in or upon any premises or tenements belonging to or under
the control of such person.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-8-3 GAMBLING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city to engage in
gambling or play any game or games of chance of any character with cards, dice,
or with any other device or means whatever, for money or any other valuable
thing, or for anything representing money or other valuable thing.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-8-4 GAMBLING PLACES; FREQUENTING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to visit, frequent, or
loaf about any room or place wherein gambling or playing at games of chance for
money or articles representing money or property is conducted or permitted,
knowing the same to be such place.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-8-5 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class I violation.
ARTICLE 9: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROSTITUTION
Section
   
13-9-1   Prostitution; defined; prohibited
   
13-9-2   Keeping a place of prostitution
   
13-9-3   Same; inmate; visiting; prohibited
   
13-9-4   Same; equipment; nuisance
   
13-9-6   Violations; penalty
Statutory reference:
   Prostitution, see Neb. RS 28-801 et seq.
§ 13-9-1 PROSTITUTION; DEFINED; PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful to perform, or offer or agree to perform any act of sexual
penetration as defined in the state statutes with any person not his or her
spouse in exchange for money or other thing of value.
§ 13-9-2 KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   Any person who has or exercises control over the use of any place which
offers seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution and who knowingly
grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose of prostitution commits
the offense of keeping a place of prostitution.
§ 13-9-3 SAME; INMATE; VISITING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to become or remain an inmate of a place
of prostitution, or to attend at or visit any such place for the purpose of
sexual intercourse.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-9-4 SAME; EQUIPMENT; NUISANCE.
   All buildings, tents, rooms, or other structures, which are erected,
established, maintained, used, owned, or leased for the purpose of
prostitution, or in which prostitution is conducted, permitted, or carried on,
and the furniture, fixtures, musical instruments, and contents used in carrying
on such business, are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-9-6 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class I violation.
ARTICLE 10: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
13-10-1   Citation; failure to appear
   
13-10-2   Aiding and abetting
   
13-10-3   Public indecency
   
13-10-3.1   Offenses pertaining to adult book stores
   
13-10-4   Swearing; indecent language; prohibited
   
13-10-5   Tobacco; sale to minors; prohibited
   
13-10-6   Soliciting rides on streets and alleys prohibited
   
13-10-7   Repealed
   
13-10-8   Radio or television reception; interference; prohibited; exceptions
   
13-10-9   Advertisements on power, telephone, and telegraph poles; standards;
prohibited; exception
   
13-10-10   Handbills; posters; leaving in vehicles; prohibited
   
13-10-11   Same; on windshield; windows; prohibited
   
13-10-12   Repealed
   
13-10-13   Spitting; prohibited; where
   
13-10-14   Minors; curfew
   
13-10-15   Playing and loitering; restrictions
   
13-10-16   Public dances; restrictions; definitions
   
13-10-17   Swimming and boating prohibited on city property; exceptions
   
13-10-18   Violations; classification
§ 13-10-1 CITATION; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to appear in county court on a
charge of violation of any ordinance of the city as directed in a citation
issued by the county court, or by the City Attorney or one of his or her
deputies, or a police officer of the city, as authorized by statute or by any
provision of this municipal code. A violation of any provision of this section
is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 3502, passed - -1996)
§ 13-10-2 AIDING AND ABETTING.
   A person who aids, abets, procures, or causes another to commit any offense
may be prosecuted and
punished as if the person were the principal offender.
(Ord. 3293, passed - -1993)
§ 13-10-3 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person, 18 years of age or older, commits public indecency if such
person performs or procures, or assists another to perform, in a public place
where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by members of the
public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as that term is defined in the state
statutes;
      (2)   Any exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to
affront or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   Public indecency is a Class I violation.
§ 13-10-3.1 OFFENSES PERTAINING TO ADULT BOOK STORES.
   (A)   No person operating an adult book store, and no officer, director,
agent, or employee of such person shall:
      (1)   Allow any person under the age of 21 years to enter an adult book
store; or
      (2)   Display depictions of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas within the view of persons who are not inside the
establishment.
   (B)   The act or omission of any employee or agent who shall violate any of
the provisions this section shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
employer or principal had personally so acted or omitted to act.
   (C)   The terms “adult book store”, “specified anatomical areas” and
“specified sexual activities” shall bear the definition given to them in
Chapter 25, Article 2 of this code.
(Ord. 3518, passed - -1997)
§ 13-10-4 SWEARING; INDECENT LANGUAGE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city to use
obscene or indecent language.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-10-5 TOBACCO; SALE TO MINORS; PROHIBITED.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell
cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, or cigarette materials within the city to any
person under the age of 21 years of age.
§ 13-10-6 SOLICITING RIDES ON STREETS AND ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand on the traveled portion of any
street or alley for the purpose of soliciting rides from the driver of any
vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-10-7 REPEALED.
§ 13-10-8 RADIO OR TELEVISION RECEPTION; INTERFERENCE; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Any person, firm, association, or corporation operating or causing to be
operated any oil burner, motor, sign, or other electrical apparatus within the
city or connected with the light and power system operating in the city, which
shall cause unnecessary electrical interference with radio or television
reception shall equip such apparatus with proper filtering attachments to
eliminate such interference. Provided, the provisions of this section shall not
apply to the use of necessary medical or health equipment or apparatus where
such interference cannot be reasonably eliminated.
§ 13-10-9 ADVERTISEMENTS ON POWER, TELEPHONE, AND TELEGRAPH POLES; STANDARDS;
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to leave
or place upon or against any telegraph, telephone, or electric light pole or
electric light standard within the city any advertisement of any character or
description. This prohibition shall not apply to advertising for an occasional
sale of used personal property to be conducted at the home of the seller,
commonly called a “garage sale”. The advertising described in the immediately
preceding sentence shall be removed within 24 hours after the conclusion of the
sale.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-10-10 HANDBILLS; POSTERS; LEAVING IN VEHICLES; PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
throw, cast, or put into, drop, or leave in any automobile, carriage, truck, or
wagon not the property or under the control of such person, firm, or
corporation, any handbill, poster, or other advertising or printed matter of
any kind or description.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-10-11 SAME; ON WINDSHIELD; WINDOWS; PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall place any poster, sign, picture, or
advertising material on the windshield or glass of the side or rear window of
any motor vehicle not the property or under the control of such person, firm,
or corporation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-10-12 REPEALED.
§ 13-10-13 SPITTING; PROHIBITED; WHERE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate in any cellarway,
window, door grating, or entrance to any basement, excavation, or area in or
under or leading from any sidewalk space, or on the floor, wall, or stairway in
any hall of any public building in the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-10-14 MINORS; CURFEW.
   It is hereby made unlawful for any person under 16 years of age to be or
remain, or for any parent, guardian, or other person to suffer or permit a
person under 16 years of age, who is under their legal custody, to be or remain
in or upon any of the streets, alleys, vacant lots, or property of another or
public places in the city at night after the hour of 10:00 p.m. unless such
person is accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other person having the legal
custody of such minor person, or is going to or from some meeting or assemblage
of lawful character, or is in the performance of an errand or duty, directed by
a parent, guardian, or other person having the legal custody of such minor
person, or whose employment makes it necessary to be upon the streets, alleys,
or public places during the night time after such hour. Provided, these
exceptions shall not apply when such minor person shall play or loiter
unnecessarily in or upon such street, alley, vacant lot, property of another or
public place, whether alone or accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other
person or persons whomsoever. No minor shall play or loiter in any street,
alley, or public place in the city at any time to the inconvenience of the
ordinary traffic over and upon such streets, alleys, or public places. The time
when minors shall disperse from the streets may be indicated, if ordered by the
City Council, by some siren, whistle, or other appropriate signal.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 13-10-15 PLAYING AND LOITERING; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Play or loiter in any street or alley in the city at any time, to the
inconvenience of vehicular or pedestrian traffic over and upon any street or
alley, or play or loiter in any public parking lot or other public place,
except a public park or city-operated recreation area; or
   (B)   Loiter upon, against, or adjacent to a motor vehicle parking upon a
street in a residential business or commercial area. LOITER, as used in this
section, means to linger, delay, be dilatory, stand, sit, move about, loaf, or
spend time idly.
(Ord. 3142, passed - -1989)
§ 13-10-16 PUBLIC DANCES; RESTRICTIONS; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person having exclusive or partial
control management of supervision of any place or public resort within the city
to:
      (1)   Permit dancing of any type within such place within the hours of 1:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
      (2)   To conduct a public dance in a facility which is in violation of
any provision of the Fire Prevention Code adopted elsewhere in this municipal
code; or
      (3)   Permit the conduct of a public dance in such a fashion as to
disturb the peace and quiet of any other person of ordinary sensibilities.
   (B)   All police officers of the city shall have free access to a place of
public resort while a public dance is in progress for the purpose of inspection
and to enforce compliance with all provisions of this municipal code and other
applicable laws. If a public dance is being conducted in violation of this
section, or in violation of other applicable laws, any police officer of the
city is authorized to require the dance to cease and all persons present to
disperse.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have the
following meaning.
      PLACE OF PUBLIC RESORT. Any structure, building house, dwelling room, or
space where, for money consideration, persons may gather and be provided with
refreshments, entertainment, amusement, and recreation, regardless of whether
this place is held open to the general public or is restricted to a selected
group, such as members of a club or association.
      PUBLIC DANCE. Includes any dance to which the general public is admitted
for which an attendance charge or donation is imposed as a condition of
attendance.
§ 13-10-17 SWIMMING AND BOATING PROHIBITED ON CITY PROPERTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to swim or boat on any property owned by
the city, provided however, that it shall not be unlawful to swim in municipal
swimming pools, and provided further that it shall not be unlawful to kayak,
canoe, or use non-motorized watercraft in the east pond at Riverside Park if in
compliance with §
15-1-7 of this code.
(Ord. 3439, passed - -1995; Ord. 4193, passed - -2016)
§ 13-10-18 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article which is not specifically
classified otherwise is a Class II violation.
CHAPTER 14: ORDINANCES
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS AND USAGE
      
2.   DESIGNATION, EFFECT, AND REPEAL
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS AND USAGE
Section
   
14-1-1   City; defined
   
14-1-2   City Council; defined
   
14-1-3   Department; board; officer; employee; defined
   
14-1-4   Streets; east; west; Overland Drive
   
14-1-5   Persons; gender; number; tense; mandatory words
   
14-1-6   Time; defined
§ 14-1-1 CITY; DEFINED.
   CITY. When used in this municipal code, shall, unless otherwise clearly
indicated, be construed to mean the City of Scottsbluff, Nebraska. The phrases
“in the city”, “within the city”, “outside the city”, and other phrases
denoting location or area shall be construed to mean location or area with
reference to the corporate limits of the City of Scottsbluff.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-1-2 CITY COUNCIL; DEFINED.
   CITY COUNCIL. Whenever used in this municipal code, shall be construed to
mean the City Council of the City of Scottsbluff, Nebraska.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-1-3 DEPARTMENT; BOARD; OFFICER; EMPLOYEE; DEFINED.
   Whenever in this municipal code, a department, board, officer, or employee
is referred to by a title or other designation that appears in
Chapter 6 of this code, the department, board, officer, or employee so referred
to shall be construed to mean the department, board, officer, or employee of
that title or designation that is established or referred to in
Chapter 6 of this code.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-1-4 STREETS; EAST; WEST; OVERLAND DRIVE.
   Whenever in this municipal code, the name of a street includes the term
“East” or “West”, the term shall be construed to mean that part of the street
referred to that lies east or west, respectively, of Broadway Avenue. The name
“Overland Drive” shall be construed to mean 13th Street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-1-5 PERSONS; GENDER; NUMBER; TENSE; MANDATORY WORDS.
   Whenever used in this municipal code, certain words shall be construed as
follows, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The word “person”
shall include both natural persons and artificial persons, such as
corporations, partnerships, associations, and all other aggregate
organizations; the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter
genders, and vice versa; the singular number shall include the plural number,
and vice versa; the present tense shall include the future tense; and the word
“shall” shall have a mandatory, and not merely a directory, meaning.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-1-6 TIME; DEFINED.
   Whenever words fixing or importing time or hour of the day are used in this
municipal code, they shall be construed to mean Mountain Standard Time, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
ARTICLE 2: DESIGNATION, EFFECT, AND REPEAL
Section
   
14-2-1   Revision ordinance; designation
   
14-2-2   Headings; cross references; effect
   
14-2-3   State administrative rules; regulations
   
14-2-4   Standard codes; incorporation by reference; filing
   
14-2-5   Amendments; references; applicability
   
14-2-6   Liability for damage; municipal code; effect
   
14-2-7   Invalid provision; separability
   
14-2-8   Publication; distribution
   
14-2-9   City Clerk; power to make non-substantive changes of city ordinances
   
14-2-10   Revision ordinance; operative; when
   
14-2-11   Prior ordinances; repealed; exceptions; saving clause
Statutory reference:
   Revision of ordinances, see Neb. RS 16-247
§ 14-2-1 REVISION ORDINANCE; DESIGNATION.
   This revision ordinance shall be known as the “Municipal Code of the City of
Scottsbluff, Nebraska”. It may be referred to generally as the “Scottsbluff
Municipal Code” or the “Municipal Code” and any reference to all or a portion
of the “Scottsbluff Municipal Code”, or the “municipal code” shall mean this
revision ordinance as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 3193, passed - -1991)
§ 14-2-2 HEADINGS; CROSS REFERENCES; EFFECT.
   The headings of each chapter, article, and subdivision of an article; the
cross references following such headings; and the headings of the sections of
this municipal code have been provided solely for the convenience of the
reader, and shall be disregarded in construing the provisions of the municipal
code.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-2-3 STATE ADMINISTRATIVE RULES; REGULATIONS.
   Whenever in this municipal code reference is made to rules, regulations, or
decisions of executive or administrative officers, departments, or agencies of
the state such rules, regulations, or decisions shall be considered to be those
set forth in one written copy thereof on file in the office of the City Clerk,
and shall constitute in effect, to the extent of the reference, a part of this
municipal code.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-2-4 STANDARD CODES; INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE; FILING.
   Where reference is made in this municipal code to a standard code, or part
of a standard code, that has been adopted or recommended by a private
association or agency, the terms of such code, or part of a code, and, unless
the municipal code otherwise specifically provides, subsequent amendments to
such code or part of a code, shall be deemed to have been incorporated into the
section of the municipal code in which such reference is contained. The City
Clerk shall keep not less than one copy of each of such codes, and amendments
thereto, on file in his or her office at all times for use and examination by
the public.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-2-5 AMENDMENTS; REFERENCES; APPLICABILITY.
   Every reference made in this municipal code, and in subsequent ordinances,
to any chapter, article, subchapter, section, or other part of this municipal
code, or of such ordinances, shall, if such chapter, article, subchapter,
section, or other part be amended, be applicable to such chapter, article,
subchapter, section, or other part as thus amended, unless otherwise clearly
indicated in the amendment. This section shall be applicable to ordinances
enacted prior, as well as to ordinances enacted subsequent, to this amendment
of this section.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1159, passed - -1958)
§ 14-2-6 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE; MUNICIPAL CODE; EFFECT.
   Nothing contained in this municipal code shall be construed to relieve from
or lessen the responsibility or liability of any person for damage to person or
property, nor shall the city be held under any provisions of this municipal
code to have assumed any such liability.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-2-7 INVALID PROVISION; SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase, or other part of this
municipal code shall for any reason be held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such part shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the
validity of the other parts thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-2-8 PUBLICATION; DISTRIBUTION.
   This municipal code shall be printed in book form under the direction of the
City Manager, and copies shall be distributed as the City Council, by
resolution or motion, shall direct. Parts of the code also may be published in
pamphlet form and distributed as the City Council, by resolution or motion,
shall direct.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-2-9 CITY CLERK; POWER TO MAKE NON-SUBSTANTIVE CHANGES OF CITY ORDINANCES.
   The City Clerk, in preparing ordinances and amendments to this code for
publication and distribution, or in preparing and distributing substitute pages
produced and distributed for the purpose of keeping copies of this municipal
code current, shall not alter the sense, meaning, or effect of any act of the
City Council but may:
   (A)   Renumber sections and parts of sections;
   (B)   Rearrange sections;
   (C)   Change reference numbers to agree with renumbered chapters, articles,
or sections;
   (D)   Substitute the proper section, article, or chapter number for the
terms the preceding section, this article, this act, and like terms;
   (E)   Strike out figures where they are merely a repetition of written
words;
   (F)   Change capitalization for the purpose of uniformity;
   (G)   Correct manifest clerical or typographical errors; and
   (H)   Correct faulty or outdated internal references.
(Ord. 3252, passed - -1992)
§ 14-2-10 REVISION ORDINANCE; OPERATIVE; WHEN.
   This revision ordinance shall be in full force and take effect from and
after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 14-2-11 PRIOR ORDINANCES; REPEALED; EXCEPTIONS; SAVING CLAUSE.
   The following prior ordinances of the city are hereby repealed: Ordinance
numbers 2600, 2601, 2604, 2605, 2609, 2610, 2612, 2613, 2623, 2625, 2626, 2632,
2637,2638, 2647, 2653, 2654, 2656, 2657, 2659, 2660, 2663, 2664, 2666, 2667,
2669, 2670, 2671, 2672, 2676, 2677, 2678, 2681, 2682, 2683, 2687, 2688, 2689,
2690, 2693, 2695, 2697, 2699, 2701, 2704, 2709, 2710, 2713, 2714, 2715, 2716,
2717, 2718, 2719, 2722, 2723, 2724, 2728, 2730, 2731, 2732, 2734, 2735, 2736,
2739 2740, 2741, 2742, 2743, 2744, 2750, 2751, 2752, 2759, 2763, 2765, 2766,
2767, 2770, 2771, 2772, 2773, 2774, 2775, 2776, 2778, 2784, 2788, 2790, 2791,
2792, 2794, 2798, 2799, 2800, 2801, 2803, 2808, 2809, 2811, 2812, 2817, 2827,
2833, 2836, 2838, 2839, 2840, 2846, 2847, 2848, 2852, 2855, 2859, 2862, 2865,
2866, 2868, 2871, 2872, 2873, 2878, 2879, 2880, 2882, 2883, 2884, 2885, 2887,
2888, 2889, 2890, 2891, 2892, 2894, 2897, 2899, 2900, 2902, 2903, 2904, 2905,
2907, 2909, 2910, 2915, 2916, 2917, 2922, 2928, 2932, 2933, 2934, 2935, 2937,
2938, 2941, 2942, 2946, 2947, 2954, 2959, 2960, 2961, 2962, 2966, 2969, 2970,
2973, 2974, 2977, 2980, 2982, 2985, 2986, 2987, 2990, 2991, 2992, 2993, 2995,
2996, 3000, 3004, 3005, 3006, 3008, 3010, 3014, 3016, 3018, 3019, 3020, 3022,
3024, 3025, 3027, 3029, 3030, 3038, 3042, 3043, 3044, 3045, 3046, 3047, 3048,
3050, 3051, 3056, 3059, 3061, 3062, 3063, 3068, 3069, 3070, 3072, 3073, 2074,
3077, 3083, 3084, 3085, 3088, 3092, 3093, 3095, 3097, 3098, 3099, 3100, 3101,
3102, 3104, 3107, 3108, 3109, 3110, 3111, 3112, 3116, 3118, 3121, 3122, 3127,
3129, 3130, 3132, 3133, 3134, 3135, 3136, 3137, 3138, 3139, 3140, 3141, 3142,
3143, 3144, 3145, 3146, 3148, 3149, 3150, 3151, 3152, 3153, 3154, 3156, 3157,
3158, 3159, 3161, 3162, 3163, 3168, 3169, 3170, 3172, 3174, 3175, 3176, 3177,
3178, 3179, 3181, 3183, 3184, 3185, 3188, 3192, 3193, 3194, 3195, 3196, 3197,
3199, 3200, 3201, 3202, 3204, 3207, 3208, 3209, 3210, 3214, 3215, 3216, 3217,
3218, 3220, 3222, 3223, 3226, 3228, 3229, 3233, 3235, 3237, 3239, 3240, 3241,
3242, 3243, 3244, 3245, 3246, 3247, 3248, 3249, 3252, 3254, 3255, 3256, 3257,
3258, 3259, 3260, 3261, 3263, 3265, 3266, 3267, 3268, 3270, 3271, 3272, 3275,
3282, 3283, 3285, 3286, 3292, 3293, 3294, 3304, 3305, 3309, 3310, 3311, 3314,
3315, 3316, 3318, 3319, 3321, 3322, 3336, 3337, 3339, 3340, 3341, 3342, 3343,
3344, 3352, 3353, 3355, 3356, 3357, 3358, 3359, 3360, 3361, 3362, 3363, 3364,
3366, 3367, 3371, 3372, 3378, 3379, 3380, 3381, 3385, 3393, 3394, 3395, 3396,
3397, 3398, 3399, 3405, 3406, 3408, 3409, and all other ordinances of a general
or permanent nature, in conflict with this municipal code or with any of the
provisions of this municipal code.
   (B)   Provided, for the purposes of this section, ordinances of the
following types shall not be considered to be ordinances of a general or
permanent nature:
      (1)   Condemning and appropriating private property for public use;
      (2)   Authorizing and directing public improvements to be made;
      (3)   Levying taxes (except occupation taxes) and appropriate funds;
      (4)   Levying special taxes and assessments;
      (5)   Authorizing the issuance, refunding, or renewal of bonds and other
instruments of indebtedness;
      (6)   Providing for submission of questions at special elections;
      (7)   Providing for the purchase of sale of real estate in the name of
the city;
      (8)   Incorporating in the city limits designated additions or tracts of
land and approving plats thereof;
      (9)   Vacating designated additions and plats thereof;
      (10)   Granting specific rights, contracts, or franchises to certain
persons or corporations; and
      (11)   All other ordinances which are special in nature.
   (C)   Provided further, this municipal code, or any part hereof, shall not
be construed so as to affect any rights, liabilities, or causes of action,
either criminal or civil, now existing, or that may have existed or accrued
before this municipal code takes effect, or actions pending at the time when
this municipal code takes effect.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
CHAPTER 15: PARKS AND RECREATION
   Article
      
1.   PARKS GENERALLY; SWIMMING POOLS
      
2.   RIVERSIDE ZOO
ARTICLE 1: PARKS GENERALLY; SWIMMING POOLS
Section
General Regulations
   
15-1-1   Parks; identified
   
15-1-2   Destruction of property; waste; prohibited
   
15-1-3   Motor vehicle; defined
   
15-1-4   Speed regulation
   
15-1-5   Stop signs
   
15-1-6   Dogs; other domesticated animals; at large; prohibited
   
15-1-7   Boating and swimming; prohibited; listing of exception; fishing
allowed; when
   
15-1-8   Other rules; regulations; adoption
   
15-1-9   Entering parks; prohibited when; exceptions
   
15-1-10   Motor vehicles; locations
   
15-1-11   Littering; discharges into water and water facilities
   
15-1-12   Starting fires
   
15-1-13   Firearms, guns, bows and arrows, and similar devices; fireworks
   
15-1-14   Horses and cattle
   
15-1-15   Monument Valley Pathways; fishing; swimming
   
15-1-16   Violations; classification
   
15-1-17   Swimming pools; admissions
   
15-1-18   Same; promotional discount
   
15-1-19   Same; handicapped individual
   
15-1-20   Riverside Park campground; fees
   
15-1-21   Community festivals and art shows
Trees
   
15-1-22   Definitions
   
15-1-23   City Tree Plan; development; maintenance
   
15-1-24   Trees; shrubs; species; official lists
   
15-1-25   Park trees; distance from corner and hydrants; utility lines
   
15-1-26   Same; topping; cutting down; injuring
   
15-1-27   Arborists; license; application fees; insurance
Special Events
   
15-1-28   Definitions
   
15-1-29   Permit; required
   
15-1-30   Application procedure; fee
   
15-1-31   Permit; application; contents
   
15-1-32   Limitations on time and location
   
15-1-33   Grounds for denial of application; revocation
   
15-1-34   Decision on application
   
15-1-35   Permit conditions
   
15-1-36   Insurance
   
15-1-37   Duties of permittee
   
15-1-38   Appeal procedure
   
15-1-39   Special arrangements authorized
   
15-1-40   Park shelters
   
15-1-41   Violations
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 15-1-1 PARKS; IDENTIFIED.
   For the purposes of this code, the following named parks shall be deemed to
be compromised of the areas owned or controlled by the city and located at the
following addresses:
Park Address
Park                               Address
18th Street Plaza                  18th Street and Broadway
23 Club Complex                    2nd Avenue and E. 29th Street
Bee Lovell Park                    18th Street and 10th Avenue
Centennial Park                    400 East 20th Street
Cleveland Field                    1615 West 20th Street
Constitution Park                  1809 3rd Avenue
Don Park                           Railroad Street and Avenue I
Donor Plaza                        Broadway and South Beltline Highway
Dr. Allan C. Landers Memorial Park 4205 5th Avenue
East Overland Park                 1221 East 12th Street
Frank Park                         2804 2nd Avenue
Fairview Cemetery                  4109 5th Avenue
Lacy Park                          240071 Highland Road
McCaffree Park                     600 West 15th Street
Monument Valley Pathway            Broadway and South Beltline Highway to
                                   College Park and East 27th Street
Neighbor Park                      9th Avenue and 11th Street
Northwood Park                     801 West 31st Street
Pioneer Park                       102 27th Street
Platte Valley Park                 1222 Circle Drive
Riverside Park                     1514 South Beltline West
Senior Center                      1502 21st Avenue
Terry Carpenter Park               2902 2nd Avenue
Veterans Park                      715 14th Avenue
Westmoor Park                      1936 Avenue I
 
(Ord. 3755, passed - -2003; Ord. 4161, passed - -2015; Ord. 4229, passed 5-21-
2018; Ord. 4266, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 15-1-2 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY; WASTE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut down, injure, or destroy any
tree, plant, or shrub or to injure or destroy any building, equipment, or
paraphernalia belonging to the city and installed in its parks, or to commit
waste of any kind therein.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 15-1-3 MOTOR VEHICLE; DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the term MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean any
self-propelled vehicle of whatever nature.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2209, passed - -1976)
§ 15-1-4 SPEED REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate a motor vehicle or
an electric personal assistive mobility device upon any roadway, thoroughfare,
street, or place within Lacy Park or Riverside Park at a speed in excess of 15
mph. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle, skates,
skateboard, motorized skateboard, or any motorized device within Monument
Valley Pathways at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
(Ord. 4048, passed - -2011)
§ 15-1-5 STOP SIGNS.
   Stop signs shall be erected at all places where any roadway, thoroughfare,
or street within Riverside Park enters any public or county road or highway.
The operator of every motor vehicle, upon approaching any stop sign within the
park, and before passing such sign, shall cause the vehicle to come to a
complete stop at a point where the front wheels of the vehicle are even with
the sign. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to so stop such vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 15-1-6 DOGS; OTHER DOMESTICATED ANIMALS; AT LARGE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or partnership to
permit or allow any dog or other domesticated animal to run at large anywhere
within any park. Provided, this prohibition shall not apply to dogs or
domesticated animals when the same are on a leash in the hands of some person
or tied to a permanent object. If a dog defecates within a park, the person in
charge of the dog shall pick up after it.
(Ord. 3489, passed - -1996)
§ 15-1-7 BOATING AND SWIMMING; PROHIBITED; LISTING OF EXCEPTION; FISHING
ALLOWED; WHEN.
   No boating or swimming is allowed in any park owned by the city. Provided,
however, that kayaking, canoeing, and non-motorized watercraft are allowed on
the east pond in Riverside Park. Provided further, that any kayaking, canoeing,
and water craft must not be propelled with a motor and only in a kayak, canoe,
or non-motorized watercraft which is shorter than 14 feet in length and with
each occupant of the kayak, canoe, or non-motorized watercraft wearing a life
jacket at all times they are on a pond. In addition, all persons under the age
of 18 must be accompanied with an adult while on the pond. No swimming, tubes,
inflatables, or other devises shall be allowed on or in a pond. Fishing is
permitted in the ponds at Riverside Park, subject to the applicable regulations
of the state.
§ 15-1-8 OTHER RULES; REGULATIONS; ADOPTION.
   The City Manager may prepare such rules and regulations as may be deemed
necessary for the management and care of the parks and zoo, and to assure the
orderly use of the parks and zoo by the public and the protection thereof from
acts of vandalism or malicious mischief. Such rules and regulations shall be
submitted to the City Council for approval and adoption and, when approved and
adopted by the City Council in resolution form, such resolution shall be
published in the manner provided for the publication of ordinances, and at
least three copies thereof shall be kept on file at the office of the City
Clerk for public inspection.
(Ord. 3083, passed - -1988)
§ 15-1-9 ENTERING PARKS; PROHIBITED WHEN; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, be, or remain in or upon
Monument Valley Pathways or the Mini Park between the hours of sunset and
sunrise of any day, provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for
persons to use the sidewalk in the Mini Park for the purpose of accessing the
parking area located immediately east to the Mini Park. Provided further, that
it shall not be unlawful to enter, be, or remain in the Mini Park during the
hours of a special event on Broadway, properly authorized by the city. It shall
be unlawful for any person to enter, be, or remain in or upon any other park or
park area of the city between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
Provided, this prohibition shall not apply to duly authorized occupants or
users of camping areas in such parks or of Trails West Camp, or to police,
firefighters, park attendants, or park or other maintenance personnel of the
city, or other public law enforcement officers, while such officers are engaged
in the performance of their official duties.
(Ord. 3453, passed - -1995; Ord. 3731, passed - -2002)
§ 15-1-10 MOTOR VEHICLES; LOCATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or park a motor vehicle,
other than an electric personal assistive mobility device as defined in §
3-5-1 of this code, in any city park except on roadways, thoroughfares,
streets, motor vehicle parking areas, or other areas designated by the city for
use by motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or park a
motor vehicle and electric personal assistive mobility device, except a
wheelchair or maintenance vehicle operated by a city employee, anywhere within
or upon Monument Valley Pathways.
(Ord. 4048, passed - -2011)
§ 15-1-11 LITTERING; DISCHARGES INTO WATER AND WATER FACILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Drop, throw, place, or discard any wastepaper, dirt, weeds, trash,
refuse, or other rubbish of any sort onto any park except in a designated
receptacle; or
   (B)   Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause or permit to be placed
or discharged into any fountain, pool, pond, lake, stream, or other body of
water in any park, any substance, matter, or thing which might cause the water
to be harmful to persons or things, to give forth objectionable odors or to
appear unsightly, or otherwise pollute the waters.
(Ord. 3446, passed - -1995)
§ 15-1-12 STARTING FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to start a fire in any park except in
receptacles and facilities provided by the city, or in devises such as portable
grills or camp stoves which are manufactured for the purpose of containing
fires.
(Ord. 3446, passed - -1995)
§ 15-1-13 FIREARMS, GUNS, BOWS AND ARROWS, AND SIMILAR DEVICES; FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except law enforcement officers in the
performance of their duty, or employees of the city to carry, possess, or
discharge on or onto any park any firearm, pellet gun or pistol, BB gun, or
other similar device, bow and arrow, crossbow, or any other device capable of
projecting a missile able to inflict harm to persons or animals or to injure
property, except in places and under special regulations as the City Manager or
the designee of the City Manager may have adopted for practicing the use of any
such devices or giving exhibitions or holding competitions in their use. It
shall also be unlawful for any person to possess or discharge any fireworks on,
within, or onto any park.
(Ord. 3446, passed - -1995)
§ 15-1-14 HORSES AND CATTLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any horse, or to cause or allow
any horse or cattle to be driven through, run loose, staked out, or in any
other way to be in any park except in an area designated by the City Manager,
or the designee of the City Manager, for such riding or for showing horses or
cattle. Provided however, that horses may be ridden on Monument Valley
Pathways, and may be ridden on roadways in Lacy Park and Riverside Park.
(Ord. 3446, passed - -1995)
§ 15-1-15 MONUMENT VALLEY PATHWAYS; FISHING; SWIMMING.
   Fishing from the paved path in Monument Valley Pathways is prohibited. The
use of Monument Valley Pathways to gain access to the North Platte River for
swimming is prohibited.
(Ord. 3446, passed - -1995)
§ 15-1-16 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   Any violation of any provision of this chapter or of any rule or regulation
approved, adopted, published, and filed as provided in this chapter is a Class
II violation.
§ 15-1-17 SWIMMING POOLS; ADMISSIONS.
   The charges for admission to swimming pools of the city shall be as provided
in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 15-1-18 SAME; PROMOTIONAL DISCOUNT.
   If the City Council shall make a determination by resolution that a
reduction of the charge prescribed in this article for annual family season
tickets to the city’s swimming pools, for tickets of such type which are
purchased during a prescribed limited period of time, would be in the public
interest, by tending to promote increased purchases of such tickets and thereby
increased use of the city’s swimming pools, the City Council by resolution may
prescribe a reduced charge to be made for annual family tickets procured during
a limited period specified in the resolution.
(Ord. 2858, passed - -1984)
§ 15-1-19 SAME; HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUAL.
   No charge shall be made for use of the city’s swimming pools by a physically
handicapped individual under the direction of an accompanying qualified person,
or for such use by such person, if the handicapped individual, as determined by
the Director of Parks and Recreation, is a member of a family whose income does
not exceed 80% of the median family income of all non-metropolitan areas in the
state, or is an unrelated individual whose income does not exceed 80% of the
median income of all unrelated individuals of all non-metropolitan areas of the
state, within the meaning of C.F.R. § 570.3 in effect on February 8, 1982. A
QUALIFIED PERSON means, for purposes of this section, either a licensed
physical therapist or some other individual who is certified by a licensed
physical therapist or a physician, on a form prescribed by the Director, to be
qualified to supervise certain physical therapy of the handicapped individual
in a swimming pool.
(Ord. 2723, passed - -1982)
§ 15-1-20 RIVERSIDE PARK CAMPGROUND; FEES.
   Users of Riverside Park campground shall pay fees to the city daily for use
of facilities at such campground as provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 15-1-21 COMMUNITY FESTIVALS AND ART SHOWS.
   The public parks may be used temporarily for the purpose of conducting
therein a community festival or art show. The provisions of
Chapter 20 of this code pertaining to such events on the public streets and
sidewalks shall be applicable to public parks, unless such provisions are
clearly inapplicable to parks. It shall be unlawful to conduct or participate
in such an event otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, and of the applicable provisions of
Chapter 200 of this code.
TREES
§ 15-1-22 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in this chapter, the following words or terms have the
following meaning.
   PARK TREE. Trees and shrubs in public parks of the city and other areas in
the city which are owned by the city or in which the city owns an interest (not
including public streets and alleys), or which are leased to the city.
   SHRUBS. Bushes or other woody vegetation used in landscaping which by their
name do not normally attain heights in excess of 20 feet.
   TREES, LARGE. Trees which by their nature normally attain heights in excess
of 45 feet at maturity.
   TREES, MEDIUM. Trees which by their nature normally attain heights of from
25 to 45 feet at maturity.
   TREES, SMALL. Trees which by their nature do not normally attain heights in
excess of 25 feet at maturity.
§ 15-1-23 CITY TREE PLAN; DEVELOPMENT; MAINTENANCE.
   The Park, Cemetery, and Tree Board shall develop a written plan for the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of
park trees and street trees (the latter as defined in
Chapter 20, Article 7 of this code), which it shall recommend to the City
Council for adoption by the City Council. Upon adoption of such a plan by the
City Council by ordinance, with or without amendments, the plan shall
constitute the official comprehensive City Tree Plan of the city. The Board
shall review the plan not less often than annually, and shall recommend to the
City Council amendments, if any, which the Board deems to be in the public
interest, and the City Council shall by ordinance enact such amendments, if
any, as the City Council deems to be in the public interest.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 15-1-24 TREES; SHRUBS; SPECIES; OFFICIAL LISTS.
   The Park, Cemetery, and Tree Board shall recommend to the City Council for
adoption a list of tree and shrub species for planting as park trees, and a
list of tree and shrub species for planting as street trees. The trees and
shrubs shall be listed by common name and include species recommended by the
Nebraska Forester’s office for planting in this geographical area. The lists
shall include small, medium, and large trees and include spacing requirements
for each species of street trees. Upon adoption of such lists by the City
Council by resolution, the lists shall constitute comprehensive official lists
of permissible park and street trees. Copies of the lists shall be available at
the office of the Street Superintendent, who also shall distribute copies to
nurseries and other businesses in the city which sells trees to the general
public. The official lists shall be updated on a regular basis by the Park,
Cemetery, and Tree Board and City Council in the manner herein provided for the
original lists.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 15-1-25 PARK TREES; DISTANCE FROM CORNER AND HYDRANTS; UTILITY LINES.
   The provisions of
Chapter 20, Article 7 of this code concerning the location of street trees in
relation to street corners and hydrants, interference of such trees with
utility lines, and pruning or removal of such trees by utilities shall apply,
also, to park trees.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 15-1-26 SAME; TOPPING; CUTTING DOWN; INJURING.
   The provisions of
Chapter 20, Article 7 of this code concerning topping, cutting down, and
destruction or injury, of street trees shall apply, also, to park trees.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 15-1-27 ARBORISTS; LICENSE; APPLICATION FEES; INSURANCE.
   The provisions of
Chapter 20, Article 7 of this code concerning licenses required of persons
engaged in the business or occupation of pruning, treating, or removal of
street trees and the other provisions in such section shall apply, also, to
park trees.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 15-1-28 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions are applicable to this subchapter.
   APPLICANT. Any person or organization who seeks a special event permit from
the city to conduct or sponsor an event governed by this chapter. An applicant
must be 18 years of age or older.
   ATHLETIC EVENT. An organized occasion in which a group of persons
collectively engage in a sport or form of physical exercise in a park, in such
a manner as to require exclusive use of a portion of the park. ATHLETIC EVENTS
include, but are not limited to, bicycle and foot races, and organized
practices for athletic events.
   PERMITTEE. Any person or organization who has been issued a special event
permit by the Director of Parks and Recreation and paid the appropriate permit
fee.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An athletic event, art and craft show, soap box derby, rally,
demonstration, or other outdoor event that occurs in a public park, which event
may in the judgment of the Director of Parks and Recreation, interfere with the
normal use of the park or which may create a significant risk of injury to the
public or participants in the event or other persons.
(Ord. 3739, passed - -2002; Ord. 4055, passed - -2011)
§ 15-1-29 PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   No person shall form, start, engage in, participate in, or aid any special
event in a park, unless a special event permit shall have been obtained from
the Director of Parks and Recreation as provided in this article.
§ 15-1-30 APPLICATION PROCEDURE; FEE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to sponsor a special event shall apply for a
special event permit by filing a verified application with the Director of
Parks and Recreation on a form supplied by the Director of Parks and
Recreation. Applications must be submitted not less than 30 business days nor
more than one year before the event date.
   (B)   Upon a showing of good cause, the Director of Parks and Recreation
shall consider an application for a special permit that is filed after the
filing deadline if there is sufficient time to process and investigate the
application and obtain police services for the event. Good cause includes but
is not limited to a demonstration by the applicant showing that the
circumstance that gave rise to the application did not reasonably allow the
applicant to file within the time prescribed, and that the event is for the
purpose of exercising the right of free speech.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by any applicable fees specified
in
Chapter 6 of this code.
§ 15-1-31 PERMIT; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   The application for a special event permit shall set forth on a form to be
furnished by the Director of Parks and Recreation:
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person or organization
seeking to conduct such special event;
   (B)   If the special event is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or
by an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters
of the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization;
   (C)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be the
special event chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
   (D)   The date or dates and times of day when the special event is to be
conducted;
   (E)   A general description of the activities which will be conducted on all
dates applied for; and
   (F)   The proposed location of the special event.
§ 15-1-32 LIMITATIONS AS TO TIME AND LOCATION.
   No special event permit shall be granted for a period in excess of five
consecutive calendar days. No park or portion thereof shall be the site of any
special event for a period in excess of seven days in any calendar month.
(Ord. 4055, passed - -2011)
§ 15-1-33 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF APPLICATION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Director of Parks and Recreation shall approve an application for
a special event permit unless he or she determines, from a consideration of the
application and other pertinent information that:
      (1)   Information contained in the application, or supplemental
information requested from the applicant, is found to be false in any material
detail;
      (2)   The applicant failed to complete the application form after having
been notified of the additional information or documents required;
      (3)   Another special event permit application has been received prior in
time, or has already been approved, to hold another event at the same time and
place requested by the applicant, as to render the Police Department unable to
meet the needs for police services for both events;
      (4)   The size, nature, or location of the event will present a
substantial risk to the health or safety of the public or participants in the
event or other persons;
      (5)   The size of the event will require diversion of so great a number
of peace officers of the city to ensure that participants stay within the
boundaries of the event, or to protect participants in the event, as to prevent
normal protection to the rest of the city; nothing herein authorizes denial of
a permit because of the need to protect participants from the conduct of
others, if reasonable permit conditions can be imposed to allow for adequate
protection of participants with the number of peace officers available to
police the event;
      (6)   The location of the event will substantially interfere with any
construction or maintenance work scheduled to take place in the city parks;
      (7)   The event shall occur at a time when a school is in session at a
location adjacent to the school or class thereof, and the noise created by the
activities of the event would substantially disrupt the educational activities
of the school or class; or
      (8)   The event involves the use of hazardous, combustible, or flammable
materials which could create a fire hazard.
   (B)   When the grounds for denial of an application for permit specified in
division (B) above can be corrected by altering the date, time, duration, and
location of the event, the Director of Parks and Recreation shall, instead of
denying the application, conditionally approve the application upon the
applicant’s acceptance of conditions for permit issuance. The conditions
imposed shall provide for only such modification of the applicant’s proposed
event as are necessary to achieve compliance with said divisions.
   (C)   The Director of Parks and Recreation may revoke a special event permit
if, after the issuing of the permit, new information comes to his or her
attention which information indicates that any of the grounds specified in this
section for denial of the permit do in fact exist.
§ 15-1-34 DECISION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before acting on an application for a special event permit, the
Director of Parks and Recreation shall furnish a copy of the application to the
City Clerk, Police Chief, the Fire Chief, and to the Public Works Director. The
City Clerk, Police Chief, the Fire Chief, and the Public Works Director shall
give their comments on the application to the Director of Parks and Recreation
in time for the Director of Parks and Recreation to act on the permit within
the time specified by this section.
   (B)   Such action shall be taken no later than ten business days after
receiving a completed application and any applicable fee, if applicable. If the
application is denied or conditionally approved, the Director of Parks and
Recreation shall inform the applicant in writing of the grounds for denial or
the conditions on the permit and the applicant’s right of appeal. If the
Director of Parks and Recreation relied on information about the event other
than that contained in the application, he or she shall inform the applicant of
such information. If the Director of Parks and Recreation refuses to consider a
late application under § 15-1-30 of this subchapter, he or she shall inform the
applicant in writing of the reason for the refusal, and of the applicant’s
right of appeal.
§ 15-1-35 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Parks and Recreation may condition the issuance of a
special event permit by imposing reasonable requirements concerning the time
and place of the event and such requirements as are necessary to protect the
safety of persons and property, provided that such conditions shall not
unreasonably restrict the right of free speech.
   (B)   Such conditions include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Alteration of the date, time, or location of the event;
      (2)   Requirements for provision of first aid or sanitary facilities;
      (3)   Requirements for arrangement of supplemental fire protection
personnel to be present at event at the permittee’s expense;
      (4)   Requirements for use of event monitors and providing notice of
permit conditions to event participants;
      (5)   Requirements for use of garbage containers, clean-up, and
restoration of city property;
      (6)   Restrictions on use of amplified sound;
      (7)   Requirements for the deposit of security to defray the cost of city
labor and the use of city equipment to carry out the special event;
      (8)   Restrictions on the erection of structures, including but not
limited to tents, in connection with the special event; and
      (9)   Restrictions on the sale of food or other products.
§ 15-1-36 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Before the permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish proof of
public liability insurance to protect against loss from liability imposed by
law for damages on account of bodily injury and property damage arising from
the event. Such insurance shall be an amount not less than $1,000,000 for one
person, $2,000,000 for any one accident, and $200,000 for damages to property.
The city shall be included as a named insured unless the City Council for good
cause waives such requirement. The policy shall be in force during and for 24
hours before and after the beginning and end of the special event. The
insurance requirements of this division (A) shall be waived by the Director of
Parks and Recreation for non-athletic events, if the following conditions are
satisfied.
      (1)   The applicant or an officer of the sponsoring organization signs a
verified statement that he or she believes the event’s purpose is First
Amendment expression, and that he or she has determined that the cost of
obtaining insurance is so financially burdensome that it would constitute an
unreasonable burden on the right of First Amendment expression, or that it has
been impossible to obtain insurance coverage. The statement shall include the
name and address of one insurance agent or other source for insurance coverage
contacted to determine insurance premium rates for insurance coverage.
      (2)   The city may, in its discretion, require the applicant to apply for
insurance coverage for the event under a policy selected by the city. The
applicant must provide any information pertinent to qualifying for the
insurance coverage. The premium for such insurance coverage will be paid by the
city rather than the applicant.
   (B)   In addition, no permit to conduct a special event shall issue until
the applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk a surety bond to the city, to
be approved by the City Clerk, in the sum of $2,500, or in lieu thereof cash in
that amount, conditioned that no damage will be done to the City parks or to
sewer, water, electrical or other equipment or property of the city, and that
no dirt, paper, litter, or other debris will be permitted to remain upon the
parks, adjacent streets, sidewalks, alleys, or any adjacent private property.
This provision shall not be construed to limit the amount of damages for which
an applicant or other party may be liable to the city in the event that
property is damaged.
   (C)   If the Director of Parks and Recreation determines that the labor of
city employees and/or the use of city equipment by such city employees is
necessary to carry out the special event, the Director shall estimate the cost
of such labor and equipment as prescribed elsewhere in the municipal code. The
permit shall not issue until the applicant deposits with the city adequate
security in the amount of 125% of such estimated costs. After the conclusion of
the special event, the actual cost incurred by the city shall be calculated and
any excess returned to the applicant, provided however, that in the event that
city property was damaged at the special event, the excess may be retained to
pay for the damage. This provision shall not be construed to limit the amount
of damages for which an applicant or other party may be liable to the city in
the event the property is damaged.
(Ord. 3860, passed - -2005)
§ 15-1-37 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   The permittee shall ensure that the person in charge of the special
event carries the special event permit on his or her person for the duration of
the event.
   (B)   The permittee shall ensure that the area used for the event is cleaned
and restored to the same condition as existed prior to the event, immediately
following the completion of the event.
§ 15-1-38 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a permit or a
permit condition. A notice of appeal shall be filed with the City Manager
setting forth the grounds for the appeal within five business days after
mailing or personal delivery of a notice of denial or permit condition. The
City Manager shall hold a hearing no later than five business days after the
filing of the appeal and shall render his or her decision no later than one
business day after the hearing. The City Manager’s decision shall be final,
subject only to such judicial review as may be permitted by law.
§ 15-1-39 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The city is authorized to enter into contractual arrangements with
non-profit organizations or with other governmental subdivisions who sponsor
athletic programs for youth or adults. Such agreements may authorize the
exclusive use of certain park facilities appropriate for the athletic program
sponsored by such organization or subdivision and may grant to the organization
or subdivision an exclusive license to sell refreshments including non-
alcoholic beverages near such facilities. The contract shall require the
organizations to furnish the Director of Parks and Recreation with a schedule
of the organization’s events. An organization or subdivision which meets the
requirements of this subchapter shall not be required to obtain a special event
permit.
   (B)   The city may sponsor programs in city parks. During such programs, the
persons participating in the sponsored program shall have exclusive use of the
portion of the park involved. No special event permit is required for the
programs described in this subchapter.
   (C)   Persons or organizations who are not within divisions (A) and (B)
above and who desire temporary exclusive use of a part of a city park must
obtain a special event permit.
§ 15-1-40 PARK SHELTERS.
   The Director of Parks and Recreation is authorized to permit organizations
or individuals to reserve the shelters in any city park. The duration of such
reservation shall not exceed 12 consecutive hours, and shall be made at a first
come, first served basis. During the time of such reservation, a permittee
under the reservation and others associated with the permittee shall have
exclusive use of the shelter facility. Any individual or organization desiring
to reserve a park shelter shall submit an application to the Director of Parks
and Recreation on a form supplied by the Director of Parks and Recreation. The
application shall be accompanied by any applicable fees specified in
Chapter 6 of this code.
(Ord. 4055, passed - -2011)
§ 15-1-41 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to sponsor or conduct a special event
requiring a special event permit unless a permit has been issued for the event.
It is unlawful for any person to participate in such an event with the
knowledge that the sponsor of the event has not been issued a permit.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or disrupt a lawful
special event.
   (C)   The special event permit authorizes the permittee to conduct only such
event as is described in the permit in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the permit. It is unlawful for any event participant with knowledge thereof
to willfully violate the terms and conditions of the permit.
   (D)   It is unlawful to unreasonably hamper, impede, or interfere with any
portion of a park, the exclusive use of which has been granted to another under
the provisions of this article.
   (E)   Any violation of any provision of this subchapter is a Class II
violation.
(Ord. 3739, passed - -2002)
ARTICLE 2: RIVERSIDE ZOO
Section
   
15-2-1   Repealed
   
15-2-2   Repealed
   
15-2-3   Repealed
   
15-2-4   Repealed
   
15-2-5   Repealed
   
15-2-6   Repealed
   
15-2-7   Repealed
   
15-2-8   Repealed
   
15-2-9   Repealed
   
15-2-10   Repealed
   
15-2-11   Repealed
   
15-2-12   Repealed
   
15-2-13   Repealed
   
15-2-14   Repealed
   
15-2-15   Repealed
   
15-2-16   Repealed
   
15-2-17   Repealed
   
15-2-18   Repealed
   
15-2-19   Repealed
   
15-2-20   Repealed
   
15-2-21   Repealed
   
15-2-22   Repealed
   
15-2-23   Repealed
   
15-2-24   Repealed
   
15-2-25   Repealed
   
15-2-26   Repealed
§ 15-2-1 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-2 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-3 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-4 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-5 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-6 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-7 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-8 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-9 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-10 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-11 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-12 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-13 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-14 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-15 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-16 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-17 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-18 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-19 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-20 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-21 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-22 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-23 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-24 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-25 REPEALED.
§ 15-2-26 REPEALED.
CHAPTER 16: POLICE
   Article
      
1.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
2.   POLICE ALARMS
ARTICLE 1: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
16-1-1   Employees; residence
   
16-1-2   Personnel; appointment
   
16-1-3   Police; duties; general
   
16-1-4   Transportation of monies and valuables; police escort service
§ 16-1-1 EMPLOYEES; RESIDENCE.
   All employees, except the Police Chief, of the Police Department shall
reside not to exceed 30 miles from the city limits but, regardless, not to
exceed 45 minutes’ response time to the Public Safety Building from the time of
notification by the Police Department as determined by the Police Chief.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994; Ord. 4296, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 16-1-2 PERSONNEL; APPOINTMENT.
   The personnel of the Police Department shall be appointed by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 16-1-3 POLICE; DUTIES; GENERAL.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers of the city to become thoroughly
conversant with the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 3378, passed - -1994)
§ 16-1-4 TRANSPORTATION OF MONIES AND VALUABLES; POLICE ESCORT SERVICE.
   (A)   Police Department escort service during the transportation of monies
or valuables shall be available upon the request of private individuals or
entities. Any eligible recipient who shall request such service shall pay to
the city the sum of $10 in respect of each escort provided. The escort is
complete when an officer accompanies a recipient from the place designated by
the recipient to the recipient’s destination. If the recipient desires that the
officer accompany the recipient back to the place where the escort began, or to
another place, this will be considered to be a separate escort for which a
separate fee shall be paid. If the service is requested on a continuing basis,
the payment(s) due may be billed monthly and shall be payable upon receipt of
the statement. If the service is requested only on a single occasion or
intermittently, payment shall be made at the time of request for service.
   (B)   If, during an escort, the immediate presence of the escorting officer
(s) is required elsewhere on police business, the officer may terminate the
escort without liability to the city. The escorting officer(s) shall have the
discretion to determine whether the escort shall be terminated under this
division (B). If an escort is terminated, the recipient of the service shall
not be obligated to pay the fee.
(Ord. 3825, passed - -2005)
ARTICLE 2: POLICE ALARMS
Section
Definitions
   
16-2-1   Definitions; generally
   
16-2-2   Alarm; false
   
16-2-3   Alarm; police
   
16-2-4   Alarm system
   
16-2-5   Consolidated Communications Center
   
16-2-6   Director
   
16-2-7   Owner; lessee
   
16-2-8   Public safety personnel
   
16-2-9   Vendor
Regulations
   
16-2-10   Alarm system; regulation; general
   
16-2-11   Burglar alarm systems; requirements
   
16-2-12   Automatic dialing and calling devices; interconnection
   
16-2-13   Same; recorded messages
   
16-2-14   Alarm system; permit; required
   
16-2-15   Same; application
   
16-2-16   Same; fees
   
16-2-17   Same; investigation; permit; issuance
   
16-2-18   Same; permit; renewal
   
16-2-19   Alarm systems; inspection
   
16-2-20   Permit; suspension
   
16-2-21   Same; appeal
   
16-2-22   Vendors; duties
   
16-2-23   Permit holder; installation; maintenance
   
16-2-24   Same; training
   
16-2-25   Same; change in circumstances
   
16-2-26   Alarms; response by Police Department
   
16-2-27   Same; notification of owner or lessee; response by owner or lessee
   
16-2-28   Alarm system; use; general
   
16-2-29   False alarm; prohibited
   
16-2-30   Same; presumption
   
16-2-31   Same; record
   
16-2-32   Same; notice to comply; disconnect
   
16-2-33   Same; excessive number
   
16-2-34   Administration of provisions
   
16-2-35   Violations; penalty
DEFINITIONS
§ 16-2-1 DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   The terms defined in subsequent sections of this article which shall have
the meaning, when used in this article, that is given to the terms in the
following sections.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-2 ALARM; FALSE.
   FALSE ALARM.
      (1)   Any signal created by an alarm system (including but not limited to
alarm signals initiated by human error) which directly or indirectly notifies
public safety personnel of the city of a fire, life hazard, or medical
emergency, or a burglary, robbery, or other criminal offense, when either of
the following circumstances is present:
         (a)   No such emergency or hazard has occurred or, as the case may be,
is occurring; or
         (b) Public safety personnel or emergency medical personnel are not
needed to respond to such emergency or hazard.
      (2)   Provided, FALSE ALARM shall not include a signal activated by fire,
lighting, tornado winds, flooding, or earthquake, or by telephone or power line
malfunction verified in writing by the telephone company or power district
within seven days after the alarm.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-3 ALARM; POLICE.
   POLICE ALARM. Any communication, or attempted communication, whether in
person or by a mechanical, electrical, or electronic device, that is intended
or is designed to elicit a prompt response by the Police Department.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-4 ALARM SYSTEM.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical, or electronic device that is
arranged, designed, or used to signal the occurrence in the city of a life
hazard or medical emergency, or a burglary, robbery, or other criminal offense.
ALARM SYSTEMS include, but are not limited to, those by which public safety
personnel of the city are notified directly of such signals by automatic
recording devices, or are notified indirectly by way of third persons who
monitor the alarm systems and who report such signals to public safety
personnel. ALARM SYSTEMS also include those designed to register a signal which
is so audible, visible, or in other ways perceptible outside a protected
building, structure, or facility as to notify persons in the neighborhood
beyond the lot where the signal is located, who may in turn notify public
safety personnel of the city of the signal. ALARM SYSTEMS do not include those
affixed to automobiles, or auxiliary devices installed by telephone companies
to protect telephone equipment, or systems which might be damaged or disrupted
by the use of an alarm system.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-5 CONSOLIDATED COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.
   CONSOLIDATED COMMUNICATIONS CENTER. The Department of the County of Scotts
Bluff established by an interlocal cooperation agreement between the City of
Scottsbluff, the City of Gering, and the County of Scotts Bluff dated October
1, 1990, and any subsequent amendments thereto.
§ 16-2-6 DIRECTOR.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Consolidated Communications Center.
§ 16-2-7 OWNER; LESSEE.
   OWNER or LESSEE. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity who
or which purchases, leases, contracts for, or obtains an alarm system.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-8 PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL.
   PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL. The officers and other members of Police
Department.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-9 VENDOR.
   VENDOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or entity associated
with an alarm business or company, either indirectly or directly, whose duties
include but are not necessarily limited to, any of the following: selling,
replacing, moving, repairing, maintaining, or installing an alarm system on or
in any structure, building, or facility.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
REGULATIONS
§ 16-2-10 ALARM SYSTEM; REGULATION; GENERAL.
   No alarm system shall be installed, maintained, or used in violation of any
of the requirements of this article, or of any applicable statute, law, or
administrative regulation of the United States of America or the state.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-11 BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEMS; REQUIREMENTS.
   All burglar alarm systems shall incorporate a device that:
   (A)   Allows an adequate delay before the time at which activation of the
system will directly or indirectly signal public safety personnel, or signal
other parties who in turn might be expected to notify public safety personnel;
the delay time shall be such as will permit the owner of lessee to stop a false
alarm from being transmitted; or
   (B)   Limits any exterior signal to a period of time not to exceed 15
minutes in duration, and that causes the alarm system automatically to cease
emitting a signal at the expiration of the maximum time permitted.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-12 AUTOMATIC DIALING AND CALLING DEVICES; INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   Persons owning or leasing an automatic dialing or calling device
situated on premises within the city, upon obtaining a permit therefor as
provided in this article, may, if authorized as provided in this article, have
the device interconnected to a telephone line transmitting directly to:
      (1)   A privately-owned central alarm panel or station;
      (2)   An answering service; or
      (3)   The Consolidated Communications Center.
   (B)   An automatic dialing device also may be interconnected to one or more
telephone numbers available to the owner or lessee.
   (C)   No automatic dialing or calling device shall be interconnected to any
emergency telephone trunkline terminating in the Consolidated Communications
Center except as authorized in this article, and no such device shall be
connected to any telephone line of other offices or departments of the city.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-13 SAME; RECORDED MESSAGES.
   Alarm systems that automatically dial or call a telephone line that has been
designated by the city as provided in this article shall comply with the
following requirements.
   (A)   The total length of the recorded message being transmitted to the
Consolidated Communications Center (including repetition of message) shall not
exceed 30 seconds’ duration.
   (B)   The recorded message transmitted shall be repeated not less than two
nor more than three times.
   (C)   The recorded message being transmitted shall incorporate language
specifically identifying the message as a “recording”, with the balance of the
message identifying by street number and name the location of the emergency and
the nature of the event which caused the alarm system to activate. If the
location of the event signaled by the alarm system is in a multi-family
building or a multi-unit office or commercial building, the message shall also
identify by number and floor the particular dwelling unit, office unit, or
commercial unit in which the event occurred or is occurring.
   (D)   The recorded message being transmitted shall be appropriate for the
purpose for which the alarm system was installed, and the message in its
entirety shall be intelligible and spoken in the English language.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-14 ALARM SYSTEM; PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, interconnect with, or use
any alarm system within the city without a current valid permit therefor as
provided in this article.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-15 SAME; APPLICATION.
   Each application for an alarm system permit shall be made on a form
prescribed by the Director and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner or lessee, who
shall be an adult occupant of the protected premises;
   (B)   The type of premises (home, office, or other) and any business name by
which the premises are known;
   (C)   The address of the protected premises, including, if the premises are
in a multiple unit residential, commercial, or industrial structure or complex,
any name by which the structure or complex is commonly known;
   (D)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers, including home phone
numbers, of all agents having authority or responsibility with respect to the
structure or complex;
   (E)   If the alarm system component consists of automatic dialers, the
number and type thereof, the location of all remote annunciators, and the names
and telephone numbers of all persons or businesses which are or may be
preselected for automatic dialer contact;
   (E)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person with whom the
owner or lessee has contracted for maintenance of the alarm system;
   (F)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of those persons (not less
than two) who can be contacted by the Consolidated Communications Center 24
hours a day and seven days a week to turn off or deactivate the alarm system;
and
   (G)   A statement that the owner or lessee, in consideration of the issuance
of the requested permit, has read and agrees to be bound by the terms of this
article.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-16 SAME; FEES.
   (A)   If an alarm system component is to be connected to an alarm panel in
the Consolidated Communications Center:
      (1)   The application for an alarm system permit shall be accompanied by
a connection fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code; and
      (2)   The owner or lessee shall pay annually, in addition, a maintenance
and monitoring fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code payable, in the first instance, with the
application, but no connection fee shall be payable by owners or lessees of an
alarm system component which is connected to the alarm panel at the time of
enactment of this article.
   (B)   If the alarm component is an automatic dialer to be interconnected to
a telephone in the Consolidated Communications Center, or is a system which
provides for a third party relay of calls to such a telephone, the owner or
lessee shall pay to the Consolidated Communications Center annually a
monitoring fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code, and a fee in such amount shall be paid, in
the first instance, with the application for a permit. If a permit shall be
issued, fees which accompanied the application shall be retained; otherwise,
they shall be refunded.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to alarm system components owned or
leased by the city, and state or federal agency, or other public law
enforcement officials or departments.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-17 SAME; INVESTIGATION; PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of the permit application and fee, if any, the Director shall
cause to be made such investigation as he or she deems necessary. If it appears
to the Director that the proposed system will comply with the provisions of
this article, he or she shall issue to the applicant a permit bearing an
identifying number, specifying the alarm system for which it is issued, and
setting forth the expiration date of the permit. Provided, a permit to
interconnect a component of an alarm system situated outside the corporate
limits of the city with an alarm panel or telephone(s) of the city shall not
issue unless the Director shall find in writing that such connection will not
overburden the center’s alarm system during the period of the permit.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-18 SAME; PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   Alarm system permits shall not be extendable or renewable as a matter of
right beyond the period for which a maintenance or monitoring fee has been paid
as provided in this article.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-19 ALARM SYSTEMS; INSPECTION.
   The Director may inspect, or cause to be inspected, any alarm system for
which a permit is required or for which a permit has been issued, for the
purpose of ascertaining that information furnished by the application or
permittee is correct, and that a system for which a permit has been issued is
being maintained in conformance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-20 PERMIT; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for suspension by the Director or
Police Chief of any permit issued pursuant to this article:
      (1)   Any false or incomplete statement made on the permit application;
      (2)   Programming an automatic dialer to select any city telephone line;
      (3)   Failure to pay an annual maintenance or monitoring fee as provided
in this article;
      (4)   Failure to pay a false alarm charge within the time required;
      (5)   Maintenance, installation, or use of the alarm system in violation
of any applicable law, ordinance, or regulation, including the requirements of
this article; and
      (6)   Failure to provide current information as required.
   (B)   If the Director or Chief of Police determines that there is cause for
the suspension of a permit, he or she shall mail a notice of suspension to the
owner of lessee at the latter’s last known address, stating that the suspension
will be effective 30 days after the date of mailing, unless a notice of appeal
is filed with the City Manager on or before the effective date. The notice of
suspension shall be signed by both the Director and the Police Chief.
(Ord. 2961, passed - -1986)
§ 16-2-21 SAME; APPEAL.
   Any owner or lessee to whom has been mailed a notice of suspension as
provided in this article may appeal the suspension to the City Manager. The
filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the suspension until disposition of the
appeal by the City Manager after notice and hearing.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-22 VENDORS; DUTIES.
   Any vendor installing or maintaining an alarm system shall cause such
installation or maintenance to conform to the requirements of this municipal
code.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-23 PERMIT HOLDER; INSTALLATION; MAINTENANCE.
   The holder of an alarm system permit shall, at all times, be responsible for
the proper installation, maintenance, and repair of the system, including, but
not limited to, design features, method of installation, the repair or
replacement of any component, or any condition which may give rise to a false
alarm.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-24 SAME; TRAINING.
   The holder of an alarm system permit shall be responsible for training and
retraining all employees, family members, and other persons who may make
regular use of the protected premises and who may, in the normal course of
their activities, be in a position to accidentally trigger a sensor. Such
training shall include procedures and practices to avoid accidental alarms, and
steps to follow in the event the system is accidentally triggered.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-25 SAME; CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Within the ten days following any change of circumstances which render
obsolete any of the information submitted on an application for an alarm
systems permit, the holder of the permit shall file an amendment to his or her
application setting forth the currently accurate information. No additional fee
shall be required, unless the change is of such character that the permit is no
longer applicable to the alarm system for which the permit was issued.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-26 ALARMS; RESPONSE BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department may elect not to respond to an alarm from an alarm
system which does not comply with all of the provisions of this article.
Regardless, the issuance of an alarm system permit under this article shall not
impose upon the Police Department an obligation to respond, or liability for
failure to respond, to any alarm from such system, and shall not require the
Department to accord any priority to such alarm.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-27 SAME; NOTIFICATION OF OWNER OR LESSEE; RESPONSE BY OWNER OR LESSEE.
   Upon receiving an emergency alarm signal, the Police Chief shall promptly
cause the owner or lessee, or his or her authorized representative, to be
notified thereof by telephone, if reasonably possible, and the owner or lessee
or his or her authorized representative, shall immediately come to the premises
in person.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-28 ALARM SYSTEM; USE; GENERAL.
   No alarm system shall be activated or used except for the purpose of
summoning Police Department personnel for emergency or life hazard situations.
Without the prior express consent of the Director, alarm systems shall not be
tested so as to transmit a signal to personnel of the Police Department when an
emergency of life hazard situation does not exist.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-29 FALSE ALARM; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, a police
alarm known, or which in the exercise of reasonable care should be known, to be
false.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-30 SAME; PRESUMPTION.
   If police units, responding to an alarm and checking the premises according
to standard operating procedure, do not discover any evidence of unauthorized
entry or criminal activity, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the
alarm was false.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
§ 16-2-31 SAME; RECORD.
   The Police Chief shall cause to be maintained a record of the date and time
of any false alarms received by the Department and of the officers of the
Department who responded. The record shall be open for the inspection of the
owner, or lessee, or his or her authorized representative, on regular business
days between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. at the office of the Chief of
the Department.
§ 16-2-32 SAME; NOTICE TO COMPLY; DISCONNECT.
   In the event a false alarm was, or may have been, the result of improper
design, installation, or maintenance of the owner’s or lessee’s alarm system
component, the Police Chief shall (except in cases provided in §
16-2-33 of this subchapter) notify the owner or lessee to cause the component
to comply with the requirements of this article within the time specified in
the notice, and may order the component disconnected immediately pending such
compliance. Such notice may be either oral or in writing, in the Chief’s sound
discretion. The ordered disconnection shall be done in such manner that signals
are not emitted so as to notify the Consolidated Communication Center by a
signal on its alarm panel, or directly or indirectly through automatic
telephone recording devices, or to register a signal which is audible, visible,
or in other ways perceptible outside a protected building, structure, or
facility as to notify persons in the neighborhood who may in turn notify the
Police Department.
§ 16-2-33 SAME; EXCESSIVE NUMBER.
   In the event that, within any period of 12 months, in excess of four false
alarms shall be transmitted by any alarm system component connected to a panel
in the Consolidated Communication Center, or by any automatic dialer or a third
party relay to a telephone in the Consolidated Communication Center, and such
alarms result in responses by the Police Department to the scene, the owner or
lessee shall pay to the city, as the liquidated amount of expense incurred by
the Department in connection with such responses, the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code, after written notice from the Police Chief,
mailed to the owner or lessee at his or her last known address, specifying the
alarms and responses.
(Ord. 2961, passed - -1986)
§ 16-2-34 ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The Police Chief shall administer the provisions of this chapter.
§ 16-2-35 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2827, passed - -1983)
CHAPTER 17: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
   Article
      
1.   TAXICABS
      
2.   RAILROADS
ARTICLE 1: TAXICABS
Section
   
17-1-1   Transportation of passengers; license; from City Clerk required
   
17-1-2   License; application
   
17-1-3   Issued and when; term
   
17-1-4   Display in vehicle
   
17-1-5   Taxicab stands; prohibited; where
   
17-1-6   Passengers; restrictions
   
17-1-7   Additional passengers; restrictions
   
17-1-8   Violations; penalty
§ 17-1-1 TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS; LICENSE; FROM CITY CLERK; REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate for hire any vehicle for the
conveyance of passengers on the public streets or alleys of the city without
first having obtained a license therefor from the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-1-2 LICENSE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a license to operate for hire a vehicle for the
conveyance of passengers shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, age, and residence of the applicant;
      (2)   The applicant’s state driver’s license number;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has held a motor vehicle operator’s license
continuously for a period of not less than two years prior to the application;
and
      (4)   A statement to the effect that the applicant has complied with and,
during the period of the license, will at all times comply with the applicable
laws of the state and ordinances of the city pertaining to taxicabs and other
vehicles for the conveyance of passengers.
   (B)   The application shall be signed by the applicant in the presence of
the City Clerk. A photograph of the applicant shall be filed with the
application. The City Clerk shall attach this photograph to the license when
the license is issued to the applicant. At the time of filing the application,
the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk the fee provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3339, passed - -1994)
§ 17-1-3 ISSUED AND WHEN; TERM.
   If, upon the filing of such an application, the City Clerk shall be
satisfied that the applicant has a motor vehicle operator’s license issued by
the state, and that such license or a driver’s license issued by another state,
or the two consecutively, have been in effect continuously for a period of not
less than two years prior to such application, the City Clerk shall issue a
license to such applicant, which shall be valid for a period commencing on the
date of such issuance and ending on May 1 following. Provided, such license
shall become void if the operator’s license issued to such operator by the
state shall be suspended or revoked. Provided, further, the issuance of a
license by the City Clerk as in this chapter provided shall not entitle the
holder of such license to operate any motor vehicle that is not registered as
required by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-1-4 DISPLAY IN VEHICLE.
   Such license shall be displayed prominently within the interior of the
vehicle at all times such vehicle is being operated for hire by such licensed
operator.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-1-5 TAXICAB STANDS; PROHIBITED; WHERE.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall use as a stand for such a vehicle the
following parts of the following public streets of the city: East Overland
Drive, from 2nd Avenue to Railway Street, inclusive; Railway Street, from 1st
Avenue to Avenue B, inclusive; East 14th Street, from 2nd Avenue to Broadway
Avenue, inclusive; East 15th Street, from 2nd Avenue to Broadway Avenue,
inclusive; 16th Street, from 2nd Avenue to Avenue A, inclusive; 17th Street,
from 2nd Avenue to Avenue B, inclusive; 18th Street, from 2nd Avenue to Avenue
B, inclusive; 19th Street, from 2nd Avenue to Avenue B, inclusive; 20th Street,
from 2nd Avenue to Avenue B, inclusive; First Avenue, from East Overland Drive
to East 20th Street, inclusive; Second Avenue, from Railway Street to East
Street, inclusive; Avenue A, from Railway Street to West 20th Street,
inclusive; Avenue B, from Railway Street to West 20th Street, inclusive;
Broadway Avenue, from 9th Street to 20th Street, inclusive.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-1-6 PASSENGERS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No operator of a taxicab shall allow any auxiliary driver or non-paying
passenger to ride in the taxicab.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1706, passed - -1968)
§ 17-1-7 ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No operator of a taxicab, while engaged in transporting a passenger or
passengers for hire, shall solicit an additional passenger or passengers
without first requesting and receiving consent thereto by all of the passengers
being transported.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-1-8 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation.
ARTICLE 2: RAILROADS
Section
   
17-2-1   Railroad crossings; maintenance; railroad company; duty
   
17-2-2   Same; repair; City Council may order; compliance; special measures
   
17-2-3   Same; violations; classification
   
17-2-4   Crossing lights; City Council may require; operation
   
17-2-5   Automatic lights and signals; flagpersons; City Council may require;
operation
   
17-2-6   Bells; whistles; required; operation
   
17-2-7   Depot platforms; lighting; City Council may require
   
17-2-8   Obstructing streets; trains; prohibited; exceptions
   
17-2-9   Tracks; loitering about; trains; jumping on and off; prohibited;
exceptions
   
17-2-10   Depot platforms; riding and driving on; prohibited; exceptions
   
17-2-11   Violations; penalty
Statutory reference:
   City regulation of railroads, see Neb. RS 16-211 and 16-212
§ 17-2-1 RAILROAD CROSSINGS; MAINTENANCE; RAILROAD COMPANY; DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating, and
maintaining a railroad track passing through the city to place, keep, or
maintain all places within their right-of-way where the public streets or
alleys of the city intersect and cross any of such railroad tracts in a
suitable and safe condition for public travel.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-2-2 SAME; REPAIR; CITY COUNCIL MAY ORDER; COMPLIANCE; SPECIAL MEASURES.
   (A)   If any such railroad crossing shall be at any time in a condition such
as to necessitate the slowing of traffic in order to avoid possible damage to
tires or other parts of vehicles, or be otherwise unsafe or inconvenient for
public travel on the street or alley, the City Council may, if it so finds by
resolution, also order the railroad company to repair or replace the crossing
and render it safe and convenient for public travel. The City Manager or a city
employee designated by the City Manager shall cause a copy of such resolution
to be served upon the local agent of the railroad company whose duty it is to
cause the crossing to be maintained, and the railroad company shall comply with
the order within 11 working days after service of the copy of the resolution
upon the agent.
   (B)   If work involving interruption of or interference with public
vehicular traffic on the street or alley crossing continues in excess of four
days (including weekends and holidays), the railroad company shall provide
continuously from that time during period(s) of further such interruption or
interference:
      (1)   A crossing for two-way single-land public vehicular traffic on the
street or alley; and
      (2)   One or more flagperson.
(Ord. 2744, passed - -1982)
§ 17-2-3 SAME; VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   It is a Class I violation for a railroad company whose duty it is to
maintain such crossing and upon which a copy of a resolution has been served as
provided in this article to fail or refuse to comply with such resolution or,
as the case may be, to provide a crossing or flagperson as in such section
provided.
(Ord. 2751, passed - -1982)
§ 17-2-4 CROSSING LIGHTS; CITY COUNCIL MAY REQUIRE; OPERATION.
   At all points within the city where any railroad or railway track shall
intersect any platted street, there shall be installed and maintained, when
ordered by the resolution or motion of the City Council, wholly at the expense
of the railroad company or railway company maintaining such intersecting
railroad or railway track, an electric light of at least such power and
strength as is commonly used by the city for its street lighting. Such electric
light shall be kept lighted at all times between one hour after sunset in the
evening and one hour before sunrise in the morning following.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-2-5 AUTOMATIC LIGHTS AND SIGNALS; FLAGPERSONS; CITY COUNCIL MAY REQUIRE;
OPERATION.
   When ordered by the resolution or motion of the City Council, approved
automatic lights or signals shall be installed at designated railroad
crossings. Such lights or signals shall be kept in good working order at all
hours of the day or night so that all persons approaching such crossings will
be warned of the danger of approaching trains, engines, or cars on the tracks
of the railroad company. The City Council may also, by resolution or motion,
order railroad companies to keep flagpersons at designated crossings.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-2-6 BELLS; WHISTLES; REQUIRED; OPERATION.
   There shall be a bell or gong and whistle attached to every locomotive,
engine, or motor car. The bell or gong shall be rung continuously by the
engineer or firefighter in charge of the locomotive, engine, or motor while
passing over any railroad line within the city. The whistle shall be blown by
the railroad employee in charge of such locomotive, engine, or motor car before
crossing any street within the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-2-7 DEPOT PLATFORMS; LIGHTING; CITY COUNCIL MAY REQUIRE.
   Railroad companies shall, wholly at their own expense, construct and
maintain on their depot platforms within the city electric light or lights, at
such height and such candlepower as is ample to light such platform, as the
City Council shall by resolution direct.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-2-8 OBSTRUCTING STREETS; TRAINS; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared unlawful for any railroad company operating a
railroad into or through the city, or for anyone in control of a train or cars
of such railroad, to obstruct any of the public streets within the city so as
to prevent the public from crossing the railroad track or tracks by:
      (1)   Leaving trains or cars standing thereon for a longer period at one
time than five minutes; or
      (2)   By allowing a moving train or cars to obstruct a crossing for a
longer period than ten minutes, except in cases of unavoidable accident.
   (B)   It also shall be unlawful for such railroad company or anyone in
control of a railroad crossing gate to allow the arm of such crossing gate to
remain in a position that prevents crossing of the track or tracks for a longer
period than ten minutes, except in cases of unavoidable accident.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2554, passed - -1980)
§ 17-2-9 TRACKS; LOITERING ABOUT; TRAINS; JUMPING ON AND OFF; PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to loiter about any railroad
track, or to be found jumping on or off any train while the same is at rest or
in motion; provided, this section shall not be construed to apply to any
employee of a railroad, or to any person authorized by it, or to any person
boarding a train as a passenger at a depot or station.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 17-2-10 DEPOT PLATFORM; RIDING AND DRIVING ON; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive any automobile,
motorcycle, bicycle, or other vehicle upon or across any depot platform within
the city. Provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to the
firefighters of the city in the performance of their functions or duties.
§ 17-2-11 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article which is not specifically
classified otherwise is a Class
II violation.
CHAPTER 18: SEWERS
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
      
2.   SEWER CONNECTIONS
      
3.   SEWER USE AND SERVICE
      
4.   SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
      
5.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
6.   ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, AND PENALTIES
Statutory reference:
   Municipal public utilities, see Neb. RS 18-401 et seq.
   Municipal sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 18-501 et seq.
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
18-1-1   Definitions; generally
   
18-1-2   B.O.D
   
18-1-3   Same; excess
   
18-1-4   Building drain
   
18-1-5   Building sewer
   
18-1-6   Combined sewer
   
18-1-7   Commercial user
   
18-1-8   Garbage
   
18-1-9   Industrial user
   
18-1-10   Industrial wastes
   
18-1-11   Natural outlet
   
18-1-12   Normal domestic sewage
   
18-1-13   Operation and maintenance
   
18-1-14   Person
   
18-1-15   pH
   
18-1-16   Properly shredded garbage
   
18-1-17   Public sewer
   
18-1-18   Replacement
   
18-1-19   Residential user
   
18-1-20   Sanitary sewer
   
18-1-21   Sewage
   
18-1-22   Sewage system
   
18-1-23   Sewer
   
18-1-24   Storm sewer or storm drain
   
18-1-25   Suspended solids
   
18-1-26   Same; excess
   
18-1-27   Useful life
   
18-1-28   User
   
18-1-29   Watercourse
   
18-1-30   Wholesale user
§ 18-1-1 DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   The defined words and phrases in succeeding sections of this article shall
have the meanings there ascribed to them for the purpose of this chapter unless
the context in which they occur clearly indicates otherwise.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-2 B.O.D.
   B.O.D. (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20ºC, expressed in parts per million by weight.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-3 SAME; EXCESS.
   EXCESS B.O.D. B.O.D. strength greater than 300 mg/l.
(Ord. 3175, passed - -1990)
§ 18-1-4 BUILDING DRAIN.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the buildings and conveys it to the service lateral,
beginning five feet outside the building wall.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-5 BUILDING SEWER.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-6 COMBINED SEWER.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-7 COMMERCIAL USER.
   COMMERCIAL USER. All users other than residential, industrial, and wholesale
users.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-1-8 GARBAGE.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooling, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-9 INDUSTRIAL USER.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user other than a wholesale user of publicly-owned
treatment works which meets any one of the following criteria:
      (1)   Which discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000 gallons per day
(gpd) of sanitary wastes or which is identified in the most current edition of
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Office of Management and Budget, as
amended and supplemented;
      (2)   All commercial users of individual systems constructed with grant
assistance under § 201(h) of the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1252 et seq.;
      (3)   Which discharges wastewater having a five-day biochemical oxygen
demand greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
      (4)   Which discharges wastewater containing more than 350 parts per
million of suspended solids;
      (5)   Which discharges wastewater containing an ammonia nitrogen (NH3)
level of more than 25 parts per million;
      (6)   Which discharges wastewater containing a pH lower than five and
five/tenths or higher than nine;
      (7)   Which discharges wastewater containing more than 50 parts per
million of weight of fats, oil, or grease; or
      (8)   Which is found by the City Manager or the appropriate official of
the state or the United States of America to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
facilities, the quality of the sludge, the facilities’ effluent quality, or air
emissions generated by the facilities.
(Ord. 3566, passed - -1997)
§ 18-1-10 INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-11 NATURAL OUTLET.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-12 NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Sewage which does not contain excess B.O.D. and/or
excess suspended solids.
(Ord. 2739, passed - -1982; Ord. 3175, passed - -1990)
§ 18-1-13 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the works to achieve the capacity and
performance for which the works were designed and constructed. The term
includes replacement.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-14 PERSON.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-15 pH.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-16 PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensation of food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than three-eighths inch in any dimension.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-17 PUBLIC SEWER.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is controlled by the city and with respect to
which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-18 REPLACEMENT.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-19 RESIDENTIAL USER.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Refers to dwellings the sanitary sewer of which is used
exclusively for residential purposes, and includes funeral homes and churches.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-20 SANITARY SEWER.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwaters,
surface waters, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-21 SEWAGE.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-22 SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-23 SEWER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-24 STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries stormwaters and surface
waters and drainage, but not sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-25 SUSPENDED SOLIDS.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-26 SAME; EXCESS.
   EXCESS SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Suspended solids greater than 350 mg/l.
(Ord. 3175, passed - -1990)
§ 18-1-27 USEFUL LIFE.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-28 USER.
   USER. Any users of the sanitary sewage system of the city, including all
persons, firms, or corporations whose premises are served thereby, all owners
and tenants of real estate and buildings connected with the system or served
thereby, and all persons who in any way use or discharge sewage, industrial
wastewater, or other liquid, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary
sewage system of the city.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-29 WATERCOURSE.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-1-30 WHOLESALE USER.
   WHOLESALER USER. A user which maintains its own collection system and
collects normal domestic sewage from other users.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
ARTICLE 2: SEWER CONNECTIONS
Section
Connection to Sewer
   
18-2-1   When required
   
18-2-2   Owner; notice to connect
   
18-2-3   Failure to comply; connection and assessment by city
   
18-2-4   Sewer tap; permit; required
   
18-2-5   Sewer tap; fees
Premises Outside City
   
18-2-6   Connections; eligibility
   
18-2-7   Sewer; ownership
   
18-2-8   Sewer; expense
   
18-2-9   Connection; extension; approval
   
18-2-10   Application to connect
   
18-2-11   Connection; extension; fees
   
18-2-12   Permit
   
18-2-13   Inspection; approval of construction
   
18-2-14   Sewers capacity; liability; termination of permission
   
18-2-15   Provisions; operation and effect
Premises Owned by City
   
18-2-16   Premises owned by city
   
18-2-17 – 18-2-20   Reserved
Industrial Users
   
18-2-21   Industrial user; permit required
   
18-2-22   Existing users
   
18-2-23   New users
   
18-2-24   Duration of permit; renewal
   
18-2-25   Permit conditions
   
18-2-26   Standards for determining whether to issue permits and determining
permit conditions
   
18-2-27   Permit transfer; forbidden
   
18-2-28   Revocation of permit
   
18-2-29   Revocation, permit, and procedure
CONNECTION TO SEWER
§ 18-2-1 WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a premises within the city abuts any street, alley, or easement in
which runs a city sanitary sewer main or lateral, then the sanitary sewer
plumbing for the premises shall be properly connected to a city sanitary sewer
main or lateral. Provided:
      (1)   Where a premises as described above is annexed to the city, the
sanitary sewer plumbing for the premises shall be connected within one year of
the annexation; and
      (2)   When a new sanitary sewer main or lateral is constructed within the
city, then all premises which abut a street, alley, or easement in which the
main or lateral is located, and which are not then connected to a city sanitary
sewer main or lateral, shall be connected within one year of the completion of
construction.
   (B)   Provided further, the City Council may extend the time for connecting
as required by divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) above where an agreement is reached
in advance of the annexation or construction, as the case may be, with the
owner of the premises for connection at a later time which shall be specified
to be either as a time certain or upon the occurrence of one or more events or
contingencies.
(Ord. 3304, passed - -1993)
§ 18-2-2 OWNER; NOTICE TO CONNECT.
   If a connection shall not have been made as required in §
18-2-1 of this subchapter, the City Clerk, upon direction of the City Council,
shall serve upon the owner or owners of any such premises a written notice
which shall describe the real estate required to be connected with such sewer,
and shall notify such owner that he or she is required to make such connection
or to make repairs to existing connection within ten days after the service or
publication thereof, and that if he or she fails to comply with such notice,
the City Council will cause such connection or repairs to be made and assess
the costs thereof, together with the sewer tap fee or fees prescribed by this
article against such premises. Such notice shall be served either by personal
service or by publication, one time in a daily, weekly, or other legal
newspaper not less than ten days preceding the date when the city undertakes to
make such connection or repairs. If the notice be published, a copy thereof
shall be mailed to the owner or owners at his, her, or their last known address
within five days after the publication.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-2-3 FAILURE TO COMPLY; CONNECTION AND ASSESSMENT BY CITY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any such premises upon whom such notice
has been served to make or cause to be made and to maintain and repair a proper
connection with such sewer main or lateral, and to install or cause to be
installed proper sewer pipe connections to convey such refuse into such main or
lateral. If the owner of any such property shall fail or neglect, for the ten
days after personal service or publication of such notice, to make such
connections, to install such drainage pipes or to make any repairs which may be
necessary therein, then and in that case, the City Council shall cause the same
to be done, and assess the cost thereof, together with the sewer tap fee or
fees prescribed by this article, against such property as a special assessment,
the same to be collected as other special assessments and special taxes in the
manner provided by the state statutes.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-2-4 SEWER TAP; PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   No sewer of the city shall be tapped for a connection from premises within
the city until a written permit therefor shall have been issued by the City
Manager or the city employee designated by the City Manager with authority to
issue permits under this article.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-2-5 SEWER TAP; FEES.
   Before a sewer tap permit as provided for in this article shall be issued,
the owner of the premises from which the connection is to be made shall pay to
the City Clerk for each connection the tap fee provided and the sewer plant
investment fee as provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
PREMISES OUTSIDE CITY
§ 18-2-6 CONNECTIONS; ELIGIBILITY.
   No connection shall be made to a sewer of the city from premises that are
outside the city but that are subject at the time to being brought within the
city by voluntary action of the owner or by annexation. Provided, the City
Council may waive such restriction if it shall find that waiver will be in the
best interests of the owners and inhabitants of premises within the city.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-2-7 SEWER; OWNERSHIP.
   Sewers from premises outside the city that are connected to a sewer of the
city shall not, without the express consent of the City Council, become the
property of the city until such time as such premises shall have been brought
within the city. If such premises subsequently shall be brought within the
city, the sewers from such premises shall thereupon become the property of the
city without expense to the city.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-2-8 SEWER; EXPENSE.
   Sewers from premises outside the city that are to be connected to a sewer of
the city shall be constructed and connected without expense to the city. Sewers
so connected shall, until such time as such premises shall have been brought
within the city, be maintained in good repair by the owners of such sewers or
premises without expense to the city, and such owners shall be liable to the
city for any and all damages that may be sustained by the city as a result of
failure to comply with this requirement.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-2-9 CONNECTION; EXTENSION; APPROVAL.
   Connections to a sewer of the city from premises that are outside the city
may be made only after obtaining approval of the City Council and complying
with the other requirements of this article which are applicable to such
premises. Subsequent extensions of or additional connections to sewers that
have been connected to a sewer of the city may be made only after obtaining
approval of the City Manager or his or her designee and complying with the
other requirements of this article which are applicable to such premises.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-2-10 APPLICATION TO CONNECT.
   Application for authority to connect to a sewer of the city a sewer from
premises that are outside the city, to extend such a sewer, or to make
additional connections to such a sewer from premises that are outside the city
shall be made in writing and signed by the owners of the premises, and be filed
with the City Clerk. Such application shall be accompanied by complete plans
and specifications of the sewer system proposed to be connected to a sewer of
the city, or as the case may be, of a proposed extension of or additional
connections to a sewer that has been connected to a sewer of the city. Such
plans and specifications shall show the location, grade, size, type of
material, and number of connections of the proposed sewer, and the ground
level, manholes, and type of occupancy of the premises. An application to make
an initial connection shall not be approved by the City Council until after a
finding concerning the sufficiency of the plans and specifications shall have
been received from the City Manager or the city employee designated by the City
Manager to enforce the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-2-11 CONNECTION; EXTENSION; FEES.
   Before a permit to make a connection or extension as provided in this
article shall be issued, the applicant shall pay to the City Clerk the tap fee
and the sewer plant investment fee provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 18-2-12 PERMIT.
   After approval of the application and payment of such fees, the City Manager
or his or her designee shall issue to the applicant a permit to make the
connection or extension.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-2-13 INSPECTION; APPROVAL OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The City Manager or the city employee designated by the City Manager shall
inspect the construction to determine whether it complies with the plans and
specifications as approved, and with good engineering practice as to matters
not specified. If such construction shall not conform to the plans and
specifications as approved, and with good engineering practices as to matters
not specified, the proposed connection to a sewer of the city shall not be
made, and the City Manager or his or her designee shall so notify the holder or
holders of the permit. Upon completion of such a connection, the holder or
holders of the permit shall at his, her, or their own expense, restore or, at
the election of the city, pay for the restoration of the surface of the ground
to its condition just prior to the excavation.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-2-14 SEWERS CAPACITY; LIABILITY; TERMINATION OF PERMISSION.
   Permission by the city to make connections to a sanitary sewer of the city
from premises that are outside the city shall not entail any obligation on the
part of the city to construct or maintain sewer lines of the city of a capacity
sufficient to carry sewage discharged from such premises, nor shall the city be
liable for damages that may result to the owners or occupants of such premises
because of the inadequate capacity of its sewers. The city also shall not be
liable for damages that may result to the owners or occupants of such promises
from acts of God, or the public enemy, or from any other cause than gross
negligence on the part of its officers or employees. Permission to make
connections from premises that are outside the city shall not extend, in any
event, beyond a term of 25 years if, at the end of such term, the premises
still are outside the city.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-2-15 PROVISIONS; OPERATION AND EFFECT.
   The provisions of this article that are applicable to connections to a
sanitary sewer of the city from premises outside the city shall apply to sewer
connections that have been made prior, as well as those that may be made
subsequent, to the effective date of such provisions. Provided, it shall not be
necessary to procure a permit, or to pay the charge for a permit, to connect a
sewer that, with consent of the City Council, was connected to a sewer of the
city prior to the effective date of such sections. Provided, further, such
provisions shall not be construed in such a manner as to impair the obligation
of written contracts entered into by the city prior to the adoption of such
provisions.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
PREMISES OWNED BY CITY
§ 18-2-16 PREMISES OWNED BY CITY.
   The provisions of this article, except §
18-2-1, shall not apply to premises owned by the city.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§§ 18-2-17 – 8-2-20 RESERVED.
INDUSTRIAL USERS
§ 18-2-21 INDUSTRIAL USER; WHOLESALE USER; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No industrial user shall discharge industrial waste into the city sanitary
sewer after December 31, 1992 without having first obtained a permit in
accordance with this chapter. No wholesale user shall discharge sewage into the
city sanitary sewer after December 31, 1997 without having first obtained a
permit in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 3566, passed - -1997)
§ 18-2-22 EXISTING USERS.
   (A)   Wholesale users which are connected to the city sanitary sewer on
November 1, 1997 shall be issued a permit by the City Manager. The permit shall
be subject to such conditions as the City Manager deems appropriate. The permit
shall be effective January 1, 1998 and from that day forward, the permittee
shall conform its conduct to the terms and conditions of the permit.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize a violation of
any provision of this code, or any provision of any existing contract between
the city and the wholesale user.
(Ord. 3566, passed - -1997)
§ 18-2-23 NEW USERS.
   A wholesale user which is not connected to the city sanitary sewer on
November 1, 1997 must obtain a permit prior to discharging any sewage into the
sewer. Such new wholesale user shall submit an application to the City Manager
on a form to be furnished by the City Manager. After evaluation and acceptance
of the data furnished, the City Manager may issue a permit subject to the terms
and conditions provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 3566, passed - -1997)
§ 18-2-24 DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   Any permit issued by the City Manager shall be valid for a period of one
calendar year or until 11:59 p.m. December 31 of the year in which the permit
was issued, whichever comes first. Each permit shall be subsequently renewed
for additional periods of one calendar year unless, no less than 60 days prior
to the expiration of the permit, the City Manager informs the permittee in
writing that the permit will not be renewed and states the reasons therefor.
Any renewal of a permit shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as
the renewed permit unless, no less than 60 days prior to the expiration of the
permit, the City Manager informs the permittee in writing of any changes in the
terms of the permit.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-2-25 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All permits shall be subject to all provisions of this chapter and
other applicable provisions of this code.
   (B)   Permits may contain, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Discharge limits;
      (2)   Pretreatment requirements;
      (3)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulations and equalization for regulations;
      (4)   Provisions requiring the installation of flow measuring inspection
and sampling facilities which include requirements for the City Manager’s
access to such facilities;
      (5)   Regulations for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency, and method of sampling, number, types, and standards of
tests and reporting schedules, and charges payable to the city for monitoring
costs incurred by the city;
      (6)   Requirements for the regular periodic submission of technical
reports or discharge reports;
      (7)   Requirements for the maintenance of plant records relating to
wastewater discharge and affording the City Manager access thereto;
      (8)   Requirements for notification of the City Manager of any new
introduction wastewater constituent or any substantial change in the volume or
character of the wastewater constituent being introduced into the city’s
sanitary sewer;
      (9)   Requirements that the permittee provide at his or her expense a
satisfactory means of measuring, sampling, and otherwise monitoring the
permittee’s discharge; and
      (10)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the City Manager to
insure compliance with this code, and any applicable laws or regulations of the
state or the United States of America.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-2-26 STANDARDS FOR DETERMINING WHETHER TO ISSUE PERMITS AND DETERMINING
PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In determining whether to issue any permit authorized by this chapter,
and in determining any conditions to which the permittee shall be subject, the
City Manager shall attempt to reconcile the following objectives of the city.
No significance shall be given to the order in which these objectives are
listed that:
      (1)   Industrial users be able to operate their businesses efficiently
and profitably;
      (2)   Differences in the treatment of industrial users and of wholesale
users be justified on the basis of differing circumstances;
      (3)    The city’s sanitary sewer system and wastewater treatment plant be
operated safely, efficiently, and in conformity with all applicable provisions
of this code and any applicable laws or regulations of the state and the United
States of America;
      (4)   Revenues generated by the operation of the city sanitary sewer
system and wastewater treatment plant be adequate to meet the needs described
in Article 4 of this Title 18; and
      (5)   Any excess capacity of the wastewater treatment plant be preserved
for the accommodation of future growth and new industry.
   (B)   In determining whether to issue any permit authorized by this chapter,
and in determining any conditions to which the permittee shall be subject, the
City Manager shall consider the following:
      (1)   The nature of the permittee’s business in the case of an industrial
user or, in the case of a wholesale user, the nature of the other users from
whom the wholesale user collects sewage;
      (2)   Relevant aspects of the past history of the permittee including,
but not limited to:
         (a)   Past violations of laws, permit conditions, or contract
conditions, or the absence of such;
         (b)   The characteristics of the sewage which has been discharged by
the permittee in the past;
         (c)   The volume of the sewage which has been discharged by the
permittee in the past; and
         (d)   The sporadic nature of discharges by the permittee in the past,
or the absence of such.
      (3)   The characteristics and volume of sewage discharged by businesses
fairly comparable to that of the permittee;
      (4)   The capacity of the city’s wastewater treatment plant; and
      (5)   Any other fact deemed relevant by the City Manager to the
accomplishment of the objectives described in division (A) above.
(Ord. 3566, passed - -1997)
§ 18-2-27 PERMIT TRANSFER; FORBIDDEN.
   No permit issued under this chapter shall be transferred. In the event a
permitted facility is sold, leased, or its operation is assumed or taken over
by a person other than that named in the permit, an application for transfer of
the permit shall be made by the new owner, lessee, or operator. Upon approval
of such application by the City Manager, but only upon such approval, the new
owner, lessee, or operator may discharge, in the case of an industrial user,
industrial wastes into the city sanitary sewer and, in the case of a wholesale
user, may discharge sewage into the city sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 3566, passed - -1997)
§ 18-2-28 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The City Manager may revoke any permit issued under this chapter if he or
she determines that a permittee has:
   (A)   Violated the terms and conditions of his or her permit;
   (B)   Violated any provision of this chapter;
   (C)   Failed to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge when required to do so;
   (D)   Failed to report significant changes in specifications, operations, or
wastewater constituents or characteristics;
   (E)   Refused reasonable access to the users premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   (F)   Failed to pay any fee or sewer service charge required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 3566, passed - -1997)
§ 18-2-29 REVOCATION, PERMIT, AND PROCEDURE.
   Before any permit is revoked in accordance with this chapter, the City
Manager shall serve upon the permittee, personally or by certified mail, a
written notice which notice shall state that the permit shall be revoked ten
days after the receipt of such notice unless the permittee requests a hearing
before the City Manager or if the permittee makes a written request for a
hearing before the City Manager, the permit shall remain in effect until the
conclusion of such hearing. At such hearing, the permittee may show cause why
the permit should not be revoked. After such hearing, the City Manager may
modify or affirm his or her decision as the facts may warrant. Any appeal from
the City Manager’s decision following such hearing shall be by appropriate
proceedings in the District Court. The pendency of such an action in the
District Court shall not delay the effective date of the revocation of a permit
unless the District Court shall so order.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
ARTICLE 3: SEWER USE AND SERVICE
Section
   
18-3-1   Sanitary sewer; discharge into; unpolluted drainage
   
18-3-2   Sewers; discharge into; restrictions
   
18-3-3   Traps; required; when; specifications
   
18-3-4   Maintenance
   
18-3-5   Sewage; other restrictions; permit; preliminary treatment
   
18-3-6   Preliminary treatment facilities; maintenance
   
18-3-7   Industrial wastes; manhole
   
18-3-8   Measurements; tests; analyses
   
18-3-9   Noncompliance; discontinuance of service; liability
§ 18-3-1 SANITARY SEWERS; DISCHARGE INTO; UNPOLLUTED.
   No person shall discharge or cause or permit to be discharged into any sewer
connected to a sanitary sewer of the city any storm water, surface water,
runoff water from roofs, ground water subsurface drainage, cooling water, or
unpolluted industrial process waters. Storm water and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged into such sewers are specifically designated as
storm sewers, or to a natural outlet.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-3-2 SEWERS; DISCHARGE INTO; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause or
allow to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into any
sewer connected to any sanitary or storm sewer of the city any:
      (1)   Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF or lower
than 30ºF;
      (2)   Water or waste which may contain more than 50 parts per million by
weight of fat, oil, or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (4)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feather, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, whole blood, hair or fleshing
entrails, or other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to
the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation the sewage
works;
      (5)   Waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five-tenths or
higher than nine, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (6)   Waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance which by
reason of their nature or quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or
by interaction with other substances to cause fire or explosion or to injure in
any other way the wastewater system or processes or operation and maintenance
of the sewer system, or which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals,
creates a public nuisance, or creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on
the waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works;
      (6)   Noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance;
      (7)   Strong-acid iron-pickling wastes or concentrated plating solutions
whether neutralized or not;
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the City Manager or his or her designee for such materials;
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste-producing or
odor-producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City Manager or his or her designee as necessary, after
treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal,
or other public agencies or jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving
waters; or
      (10)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the City Manager or his or her designee in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause or allow to be discharged any of
the following described
waters or wastes into any sewer connected to any sanitary sewer of the city
any:
      (1)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (2)   Water or waste having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater
than 300 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Water or waste containing more than 350 parts per million by weight
of suspended solids;
      (4)   Water or waste containing an ammonia nitrogen (NH3) level of more
than 25 parts per million;
      (5)   Water or waste having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the
average daily sewage flow of the city during the preceding six-calendar month
period; or
      (6)   Water or other substance introduced into the sanitary sewer other
than through an approved sewer tap.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause or allow to be discharged any of
the following described waters or wastes into any sewer connected to any storm
sewer of the city any:
      (1)   Garbage;
      (2)   Water or waste having a five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater
than 30 parts per million by weight; or
      (3)   Water or waste containing more than 80 parts per million by weight
of suspended solids.
(Ord. 3408, passed - -1995)
§ 18-3-3 TRAPS; REQUIRED; WHEN; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Grease, oil, and sand traps shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
City Manager or his or her designee, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients. All traps shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the City Manager or his or her designee, and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning by the user and for
inspection by the city. Grease and oil traps shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
They will be cleaned on a routine basis, not less than once per month.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-3-4 MAINTENANCE.
   If installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be maintained by
the owner, at his or her expense, in efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-3-5 SEWAGE; OTHER RESTRICTIONS; PERMIT; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   Notwithstanding anything else that appears in this chapter, the city may
issue a permit allowing a person to discharge into the city’s sewers waters or
wastes which in the absence of such permit would be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter. Such permit shall be on the terms and conditions as
the City Manager shall deem to be in the best interests of the city. A
violation of the terms of the permit shall subject the person to the penalties
and sanctions provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-3-6 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE.
   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided by the owner for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-3-7 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; MANHOLE.
   When required by the City Manager or his or her designee, the owner of any
premises served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install,
at his or her expense, a suitable control manhole in the sewer service line to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such owner,
when required by the City Manager or his or her designee, shall install, at his
or her expense, a suitable sewage measuring device. Such manhole shall be
accessible to city employees at all times and safely located, and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the City Manager or his or her
designee. The manhole shall be maintained by the owner so as to be safe and
accessible at all times unless located in a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-3-8 MEASUREMENTS; TESTS; ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of characteristics of water and wastes
to which reference is made in this article shall be determined in accordance
with Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage and shall be
determined at, or on suitable samples taken at, the control manhole, if any,
provided by the owner of the premises. If no special manhole has been required
to be provided by the owner, the control manhole shall be the nearest manhole
in the city sewer downstream from the point at which the service lateral is
connected.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-3-9 NONCOMPLIANCE; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; LIABILITY.
   The city may immediately and without notice discontinue sewer service to any
person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter. The city may also elect to seek damages and penalties as provided for
in this chapter. The owner and occupant of any premises from which water or
waste is discharged into any sewer of the city in violation of, or in the
absence of compliance with, any such provision shall be jointly and severally
liable to the city for any and all damages sustained by the city as a result
thereof.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
ARTICLE 4: SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
Section
   
18-4-1   Sewer service charges; established
   
18-4-2   Revenues; requirement
   
18-4-3   Basis for computation; billing; payment
   
18-4-4   Winter months watering; future
   
18-4-5   Private water supply
   
18-4-6   Mobile tanks
   
18-4-7   Metering of sewage
   
18-4-8   Rate; minimum charge
   
18-4-9   Surcharge
   
18-4-10   Toxic wastes
   
18-4-11   Metered sewage
   
18-4-12   Inequitable; unfair
   
18-4-13   Notice to users
   
18-4-14   Due dates; billing; receiving
   
18-4-15   Delinquent bill; charge; termination of service
   
18-4-16   Sewer charges; liens: special assessment; suit
   
18-4-17   Funds; deposit
   
18-4-18 –   18-4-23   Repealed
   
18-4-24   Rates; review
   
18-4-25   Repealed
   
18-4-26   Repealed
   
18-4-27   Repealed
§ 18-4-1 SEWER SERVICE CHARGES; ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a sanitary sewer service charge in respect of
each lot, parcel of land, or premises served by the sanitary sewerage system of
the city, or which may otherwise discharge sewage and industrial waste, either
directly or indirectly, into such sanitary sewerage system or any part thereof.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-4-2 REVENUES; REQUIREMENT.
   The sewer service charges shall be adequate to generate annual revenues
sufficient to pay costs of:
   (A)   Operation and maintenance;
   (B)   Principal and interest account;
   (C)   Principal and interest reserves; and
   (D)   Surplus.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-4-3 BASIS FOR COMPUTATION; BILLING; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Sewer service charges shall be computed, billed, and paid on a monthly
basis, and shall be billed and paid at the same time as monthly charges for
water service.
   (B)   The amount to be charged shall be calculated as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, the charge to each
residential user shall be based on the quantity of water consumed by the
residential user during the month of February. Once the charge for the quantity
for this time period is computed, the charge shall be payable for a period of
one year beginning the following October.
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, and wholesale users may be billed on a
monthly basis. The charge to each commercial, industrial, and wholesale user
shall be based on the amount of water consumed on the premises during the
period for which the sewer service charge is payable.
      (3)   If the charge for water service for the appropriate period does not
exceed the minimum charge for water service, then the sewer service charge for
the appropriate billing period(s) shall be the minimum sewer service charge as
provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992; Ord. 4310, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 18-4-4 WINTER MONTHS WATER; FUTURE.
   (A)   Upon application made, as herein provided by a user who, as determined
by the City Manager or his or her designee, in good faith intends to water the
lawn on the premises during the winter months for the purpose of sustaining
active growth of the lawn, the City Manager or his or her designee shall order
that, for the purpose of computing the sewer charge to be made for a period of
one-year commencing on the following May 1, the amount of the quantity of water
consumed on the premises during the previous two-month period referred to in §
18-4-3 of this article shall be adjusted by deducting therefrom the following
number of gallons.
 
Lot Size (Square Feet) Deduction (Gallons)
5,500 or less          4,000
5,501 to 7,500         5,000
7,501 to 10,500        7,000
Over 10,500            10,000
 
   (B)   Provided, the minimum sewer service charge per bi-monthly billing
period during such one-year period shall be payable in any event. The
application shall be in writing, in such form as the City Manager or his or her
designee shall prescribe, shall be signed by the user against whom sewer
service charges on the premises are billed, and shall be filed with the City
Manager or his or her designee not later than November 30 immediately preceding
the period in respect of which the adjustment is sought.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-4-5 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   Users having a private water supply which is discharged into the city’s
sanitary sewer system shall pay sewer service charges as provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code. Provided, however, that where an approved
water flow measuring device has been installed, the sewer service charge shall
be computed, billed, and paid as provided in §
6-6-19 of this code. Provided further, that where the user is outside the city
limits, such user shall pay double the rate provided in §
6-6-19 of this code. An “approved water flow measuring device” within the
meaning of this section is a device which is compatible with the city’s reading
system and billing software; is plumbed and housed in accordance with the
requirements of the city; and is otherwise satisfactory to the city.
§ 18-4-6 MOBILE TANKS.
   (A)   Users who discharge from mobile tanks into the city’s sanitary sewer
system at a point provided for that purpose at the wastewater treatment plant
shall be charged the fees provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee may refuse to accept the
discharge of any sewage which would violate any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have discretion to order
appropriate testing of the sewage to determine its characteristics. The
reasonable cost of such testing shall be paid by the user.
   (D)   All surcharges described in this code shall be applicable to
discharges from mobile tanks.
   (E)   The charges described in this section shall be billed as described in
this chapter. Whenever a bill is delinquent as described in this chapter, the
City Manager or his or her designee may refuse to accept additional discharges
from such user.
§ 18-4-7 METERING OF SEWAGE.
   Users of the sanitary sewerage system of the city may, at their option and
expense, and with the approval of the City Manager or his or her designee,
install sewage flow measuring devices to measure all sewage discharged by them
into the sanitary system.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-4-8 RATE; MINIMUM CHARGE.
   Each user shall pay a sewer service charge in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 18-4-9 SURCHARGE.
   Users who contribute wastewater the strength of which is greater than normal
domestic sewage shall, in addition to the basic sewer charge, pay a surcharge
in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 18-4-10 TOXIC WASTES.
   Any user who discharges or allows to be discharged any toxic pollutants
which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from
the city’s treatment works, or any user who discharges or allows to be
discharged any substance which singly or by interaction with other substances
is deleterious to the treatment process, or causes partial or total failure of
the treatment system, leading to fines for noncompliance, or otherwise causes
increases in the cost of operation or maintenance of the treatment works shall
pay for such fines or increased costs as determined in Article 6 of this Title
18.
(Ord. 3248, passed - -1992)
§ 18-4-11 METERED SEWAGE.
   Where a user’s water supply is not metered but an approved sewerage flow
measuring device has been installed, the sewer service charge shall be
computed, billed, and paid on the basis of the quantity of sewage so measured
at the rate that would be applicable if computed on the basis of consumption of
an equal quantity of water.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-4-12 INEQUITABLE; UNFAIR.
   Where, in the judgment of the City Council, by reason of special conditions,
the application in a particular situation of the use charge hereinabove set
forth would be inequitable or unfair to either the city or the user, a special
rate may be established by a resolution or written contract duly approved by
the City Council.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-4-13 NOTICE TO USERS.
   Not less often than annually, the city shall provide to each user, together
with the regular bill for sanitary sewer service, a statement of the rates
being charged to the user for operation, maintenance, and replacement of the
treatment works.
(Ord. 2759, passed - -1982)
§ 18-4-14 DUE DATE; BILLING; RECEIVING.
   All charges established by or pursuant to this article shall be due and
payable on the same dates as water service charges of the city are due and
payable. Such charges shall be billed and received at the same time, in the
same manner and by the same employees as are water charges of the city.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-4-15 DELINQUENT BILL; CHARGE; TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   All bills of the city for sanitary sewer service furnished under this
article shall be delinquent 15 days after the date of the bill. A penalty for
late payment, in an amount of 10% of the charge, shall be added to each bill
when payment has become delinquent. Whenever a bill for such service is
delinquent, the City Manager, or his or her designee, may terminate sewer
service to the premises, by plugging the sewer service main on the premises,
until the amount of the delinquent sewer service charge, together with the
charge for the plugging and prospective unplugging of the sewer service main,
shall have been paid in full. The amount of the latter charge shall be the
reasonable expense to the city, as determined by the City Manager, or his or
her designee, of the plugging and unplugging procedure.
(Ord. 3109, passed - -1989)
§ 18-4-16 SEWER CHARGES; LIENS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; SUIT.
   All charges for sanitary sewer service under this article shall be a lien
upon the property served, and may be collected either from the owner or the
person, firm, or corporation requesting the service. Any delinquent charges for
sanitary sewer service which remain unpaid for three months after they become
due may be, by resolution of the City Council, assessed against the real estate
as a special assessment. The special assessment shall be certified by the City
Clerk to the County Clerk. The County Clerk shall place the assessment on the
tax rolls for collection by the County Treasurer, subject to the same penalties
and to be collected in the same manner as other city taxes. The remedy
prescribed by this section shall be in addition to any other remedies that the
city may have for the collection of delinquent sanitary sewer service charges.
(Ord. 3150, passed - -1990)
§ 18-4-17 FUNDS; DEPOSIT.
   All revenue from sanitary sewer service charges shall be deposited in the
Sewer Fund.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-4-18 – 18-4-23 REPEALED.
§ 18-4-24 RATES; REVIEW.
   The City Council shall review the schedule of user charge rates at least
every two years and revise the rates as necessary to ensure that the system
generates revenues as provided in §
18-4-2 of this article, and continues to accomplish proper allocation of
operation and maintenance costs among user classes.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-4-25 REPEALED.
§ 18-4-26 REPEALED.
§ 18-4-27 REPEALED.
ARTICLE 5: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
18-5-1   Sewerage system; damages; intermeddling
   
18-5-2   Premises within city; privy vaults; cesspools
   
18-5-3   Septic tank; disposal field
§ 18-5-1 SEWERAGE SYSTEM; DAMAGES; INTERMEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully, or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewerage system of
the city.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-5-2 PREMISES WITH CITY; PRIVY VAULTS; CESSPOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, lessee, or occupant of any premises
within the city to keep, use, maintain, or have any privy vault, cesspool,
hole, or other means or contrivance for the disposal of sewage or other refuse
otherwise than by disposal thereof into a main or lateral of the public sewer.
Any such privy vault, cesspool, hole, or other means or contrivance for the
disposal of sewage is hereby declared to be a nuisance. Provided, this section
shall not apply to a septic tank and disposal field in cases in which, as
provided in this article, a septic tank and disposal field is required.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
§ 18-5-3 SEPTIC TANK DISPOSAL FIELD.
   Where premises within the city do not abut upon a street or alley in which,
opposite the premises, run a sewer main or lateral, the owner shall construct
and maintain a septic tank and disposal field.
(Ord. 2613, passed - -1980)
ARTICLE 6: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS, AND PENALTIES
Section
   
18-6-1   Findings of the City Council
   
18-6-2   Statement of intent
   
18-6-3   Definitions
   
18-6-4   Traps; required
   
18-6-5   Requirements for traps
   
18-6-6   Inspection and monitoring
   
18-6-7   Provisions applicable to the transportation of material removed from
traps
   
18-6-8   Violations
   
18-6-9   Severability
§ 18-6-1 FINDINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council finds as follows:
   (A)   The Environmental Protection Agency, an agency of the government of
the United States of America, has instituted sanitary sewer overflow
regulations which are enforced by the Nebraska Department of Environmental
Quality;
   (B)   Clogs in the city’s sewer lines due to fats, oil, grease, and sand can
create sanitary sewer overflow, as well as sewer backups into homes and
businesses, and sanitary sewer overflows are considered regulatory violations
committed by wastewater treatment facilities;
   (C)   The city’s wastewater treatment plant is directly impacted by fats,
oil, grease, and sand, which reduce plant operation efficiency, cause plant
upset, and create higher levels of biochemical oxygen demand that burdens the
plant;
   (D)   Higher biochemical oxygen demand levels lead to high-operating costs
and increase sewer line cleaning frequency;
   (E)   The number of sanitary sewer overflows can be substantially reduced
with an effective grease and sand trap inspection program; and
   (F)   The provisions of this article are reasonably necessary for the
protection of the city’s wastewater treatment system to prevent sanitary sewer
overflow and ensure public health and safety.
§ 18-6-2 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   The intention of the City Council in passing this chapter is to:
   (A)   Prevent the introduction of excessive amounts of fats, oil, grease,
and sand into the city’s sewer system;
   (B)   Prevent clogging or blocking of the city’s sewer system due to the
accumulation of fats, oil, grease, and sand;
   (C)   Eliminate the city’s liabilities due to possible damage to residences
and commercial buildings;
   (D)   Protect human health and the environment; and
   (E)   Facilitate the city’s compliance with applicable state and federal
laws.
§ 18-6-3 DEFINITIONS.
   The defined words and phrases in this section shall have the meanings there
ascribed to them for the purpose of this article, unless the context in which
they appear clearly indicates otherwise.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Scottsbluff, Nebraska, or any
other city employee designated by the City Manager to enforce the provisions of
this article.
   FACILITY. Refers both to food service facilities and transportation service
establishments, unless a modifying word or words indicate that a different
meaning is intended.
   FOG. Fats, oil, and grease, a term which generally refers to animal and
vegetable glycerides discharged from food processing and serving industries.
These substances are detectable and can be measured using standard analytical
techniques. They are generally referred to as grease or greases.
   FOOD COURTS. Designated areas, generally found at shopping malls, shopping
centers, and amusement parks that contain several food service facilities with
different owners that share seating space and plumbing facilities.
   FOOD SERVICE FACILITY. A facility that prepares and/or packages food for
sale or consumption. These include but are not limited to restaurants, food
processing facilities, food manufacturers, seafood packing plants, bakeries,
lounges, hospitals, hotels, nursing homes, churches, schools, dairies,
slaughter houses, meat packers, food courts, caterers, and theme parks.
   GRAY WATER. All of the liquid and particles suspended in the liquid in a
trap after lighter-than-water materials have risen to the top and heavier-than-
water materials have sunk to the bottom.
   GREASE. Animal and vegetable glycerides discharged from food processing and
serving industries.
   GREASE TRAP. A device to which grease and food wastes are directed from the
food service facility operations. It functions to separate and retain
waterborne greases and solid food particles prior to the wastewater exiting the
trap and entering the sanitary sewer system. It also collects solids and grease
from kitchen floor drains.
   OWNER. The owner, and, if the owner does not operate the facility, the
operator of a food service facility or a transportation service establishment.
   SAMPLING PORT. An opening allowing access to a location where samples can be
collected and analyzed. The SAMPLING PORT shall be between the trap and the
point of discharge to the city sewer system.
   SAND AND OIL TRAP. A device to which sand and oil wastes are directed from
the transportation service establishment operations. It functions to separate
and retain waterborne sand and oil particles prior to the wastewater exiting
the trap or interceptor and entering the sanitary sewer system.
   SANITARY SEWER OVERFLOW. The backing up and overflowing of the sewer system
as a result of clogging or the obstruction of flow in the city’s sewer system
due to the discharge of wastewater with excessive fats, oil, greases, and sand.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM. The publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants or sewer
systems of the city, including, but not limited to all the collector system
piping, lines, manholes, lift stations, and treatment plants.
   TRANSPORTATION SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS. An automotive, truck or heavy
machinery repair and/or maintenance shop, car or truck wash, truck terminal,
commercial or industrial transportation equipment manufacturing, or maintenance
facilities that have tanks, wash racks, or any other sand and oily liquid waste
discharges indirectly or directly to the city’s public sanitary sewer system.
   TRAP. Refers to both a grease trap and a sand and oil trap, unless a
modifying word or words indicate that a different meaning is intended.
§ 18-6-4 TRAPS; REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Grease traps are required at all food service facilities directly
or indirectly connected to the city’s sewage system. All fixtures within such a
food service facility, including, but not limited to kitchen sinks,
dishwashers, automatic hood wash units, floor drains in food preparation, and
storage areas, and any other source deemed by the City Manager to be a source
of FOG or which may introduce FOG into the sewer system, must be connected to a
grease trap. In no case shall FOG be directly introduced into the sewage
system. A grease trap shall function to provide a quiescent, broad surface area
that provides sufficient retention time for natural buoyancy of the FOG
particles to separate from effluent and to retain FOG particles within the
structure. Grease traps may be located underground and outside of a food
service facility and shall have at least one inspection hatch on the top
surface to facilitate inspection, cleaning, and maintenance. Grease traps shall
be designed to collect, contain, or remove food wastes and grease from the
waste stream while allowing the balance of the liquid waste to discharge to the
sewage system. All grease traps shall be designed and installed in accordance
with sound engineering principles and according to the city specifications and
shall fulfill all requirements of the city’s codes.
      (2)   Sand and oil traps are required at all transportation service
establishments directly or indirectly connected to the city’s sewage system.
All fixtures within such a transportation service establishment deemed by the
City Manager to be a source of sand and/or oil that may be introduced into the
sewer system shall be connected to a sand and oil trap. In no case shall sand
or oil be directly introduced into the sewage system. The sand and oil trap
shall function to provide a quiescent, broad surface area that provides
sufficient retention time for natural settling of the sand particles to
separate from effluent and to retain sand and oil particles within the
structure. Sand and oil traps may be located underground and outside of a
transportation service establishment and shall have at least one inspection
hatch on the top surface to facilitate inspection, cleaning, and maintenance.
Sand and oil traps shall be designed to collect, contain, or remove sand and
oil from the waste stream while allowing the balance of the liquid waste to
discharge to the sewage system. All sand and oil traps shall be designed and
installed in accordance with sound engineering principles and according to the
city specifications and must fulfill all requirements of the city’s codes.
   (B)   Facilities which have traps on March 1, 2005. Facilities which have
traps on March 1, 2005 shall be immediately subject to the provisions of this
article.
   (C)   Facilities which have traps after March 1, 2005. Facilities coming
into existence after March 1, 2005, or facilities which existed on February 28,
2005 but which are renovated on or after March 1, 2005 shall be immediately
subject to the provisions of this article. Any modification of an existing
facility requiring a building permit from the city and showing an estimated
cost of no less than $5,000 shall be considered a renovation within the meaning
of this division (C).
   (D)   Existing facilities. Existing facilities that do not have traps shall
install the required traps on or before December 31, 2005.
§ 18-6-5 REQUIREMENTS FOR TRAPS.
   (A)   All traps shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning by the user and for inspection by the City Manager.
   (B)   All traps shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers
which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
   (C)   The owner shall ensure that all traps work properly and effectively.
   (D)   All traps shall fully comply with all applicable provisions of the
municipal code and any other applicable city regulations.
   (E)   The owner shall be solely responsible for the cost and completion of
trap cleaning, inspection and maintenance, and repairs.
   (F)   Pumping of all traps shall be performed when, in the case of a grease
trap, the total volume of captured FOG and food sludge in a grease trap or, in
the case of a sand and oil trap, the total volume of captured sand and oil
displaces 20% or more of the volume of the trap. In no case shall pumping be
performed less often than every 30 days. Pumping the trap means emptying it and
cleaning the side walls, cross pipes, and inlet and outlet pipes.
   (G)   All traps shall be opened, inspected, and maintained a minimum of once
per month.
   (H)   Traps may be inspected by the City Manager as often as deemed
necessary to assure compliance with this article. Such inspections may be
unannounced. The City Manager may review the facilities’ records on proper
pumping, cleaning, maintenance, and disposal activities and may order the
facility to make such changes or repairs as necessary to comply with the
provisions of this article.
   (I)   The owner shall be solely responsible for the cost and completion of
all repairs of traps. Repairs required by the City Manager shall be completed
within 21 calendar days from the date of receipt of written notice of required
repairs.
   (J)   The owner shall be responsible for the lawful disposition of all
grease, sand, oil, and materials removed from traps.
   (K)   The owner shall maintain records of all trap cleaning, maintenance,
disposal, and repair, and shall make all records available to the City Manager
on demand. Such records shall include the date and time of the event recorded,
as well as the date the record was created and shall include the amount of
material pumped, the repair conducted, or similar description of the recorded
event. All records shall be signed by the authorized owner or operator, or a
representative of the owner or operator. If cleaning and maintenance are done
by facility owners, written maintenance and cleaning procedures, as well as the
above-required records are required and shall be made available to the City
Manager upon demand. All required written records shall be maintained for three
years from the date the record was created.
   (L)   No chemicals, enzymes, emulsions, live bacteria, or other grease
cutters or additives to grease traps shall be used without the prior written
approval of the City Manager. If the City Manager’s approval to apply such
additives is requested, the City Manager shall be furnished the material safety
data sheet for the substance to be used together with any other information
requested by the City Manager, including but not limited to the frequency of
application, concentration/dose, and method of application. Approval by the
City Manager to use additives may be for a limited time period, and in any
event, may be terminated at any time at the discretion of the City Manager.
   (M)   No grease, sand, or oil sources shall be connected directly to sewer
lines or be allowed in any other manner to bypass the trap.
   (N)   Sewage shall not be allowed to pass through a trap.
   (O)   Access covers or manholes shall be clearly identifiable and provided
over each trap. The manhole shall have readily removable covers to facilitate
inspection, the removal of grease, sand, oil, and other materials, and gray
water sampling activities. The location of the trap shall be kept free and
clear of debris. Blocking or covering the access to manholes is prohibited. The
owners or designated representatives (facility managers) of the food service
facilities or transportation service establishments shall open access covers or
manhole covers at the request of the City Manager.
   (P)   Traps shall be designed and maintained so as to prevent surface water
or groundwater from entering trap through leaks in the plumbing or cracks in
the trap itself.
   (Q)   Under the sink grease traps shall be cleaned at a minimum of once per
week, or more often as necessary, to prevent pass-through of grease and other
solids into the city’s sewage system. Facilities with under the sink grease
traps are subject to the same recordkeeping requirements as indicated above.
   (R)   FOG, sand, or oil shall not be discharged directly to the city’s
sewage system, storm sewer system, or any other location not designated by the
City Manager for the reception of such materials.
   (S)   A sampling port shall be installed in a location approved by the City
Manager to allow sampling by the City Manager. The sampling port shall be
located between the trap and the discharge point to the sewer system.
   (T)   The owner shall allow the City Manager ready access at all reasonable
times to all parts of the facility for the purpose of trap inspections,
observations, records examination, measurements, sampling, testing, and any
other function deemed necessary under this article.
§ 18-6-6 INSPECTION AND MONITORING.
   (A)   All facilities may be inspected by the City Manager as often as deemed
necessary to assure compliance with this article. Such inspections may be
unannounced. The City Manager may review the records required by this article
and may order such changes or repairs as necessary to comply with the
provisions of this article. Inspections will not be limited to traps but shall
include all equipment and operations that may result in the generation of FOG,
sand, and oil. Other pertinent data and documentation will be subject to
verification at the time of inspection.
   (B)   The City Manager may:
      (1)   Sample and analyze wastewater discharge from food service
facilities and transportation service establishments at any time to determine
compliance with all provisions of the municipal code;
      (2)   Measure grease/sand gray water level in the traps at any time for
pumping violations; or
      (3)   Determine the adequacy of all traps, based on review of all
pertinent information regarding grease, sand, and oil trap performance and
facility operations, and may order the installation of an appropriate trap.
§ 18-6-7 PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE TRANSPORTATION OF MATERIAL REMOVED FROM
TRAPS.
   (A)   All persons transporting FOG, sand, and oil removed from traps shall:
      (1)   Comply with all applicable local, state, and federal regulations;
      (2)   Lawfully dispose of all material removed from traps; and
      (3)   Accurately maintain for a period of three years the following
records:
         (a)   Name and address of business where the grease, sand, and oil
trap(s) was pumped out and cleaned;
         (b)   Name of business owner(s), date of pumping, and volume of waste;
and
         (c)   As to each shipment of material removed from traps:
            1.   Vehicle license number of the vehicle used in the shipment;
            2.   The driver’s name;
            3.   The date of delivery; and
            4.   A signed manifest. By signing a manifest, the driver certifies
to the accuracy of information on the manifest.
   (B)   The City Manager may inspect all vehicles used in the transportation
of material removed from traps.
   (C)   Persons transporting material removed from traps shall clean up spills
or accidental releases on streets in the city.
§ 18-6-8 VIOLATIONS.
   The violation of any provision of this article shall be a Class I ordinance
violation. Each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate
violation.
§ 18-6-9 SEVERABILITY.
   It is declared to be the intent of the city that if any section, division,
sentence, clause, or provision of this article shall be declared invalid, the
remainder of this article shall be construed as not having contained such
section, division, sentence, clause, or provision and shall not be affected by
such holding.
CHAPTER 19: SOLID WASTE
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
      
2.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
3.   MUNICIPAL COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
      
4.   VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
Statutory reference:
   Solid waste disposal, see Neb. RS 19-2101 et seq.
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
19-1-1   Terms; defined
   
19-1-2   Adequate preparation
   
19-1-3   Approved container
   
19-1-4   Bundle
   
19-1-5   Collection point
   
19-1-6   Collection schedule
   
19-1-7   Collection service
   
19-1-8   Compacted waste
   
19-1-9   Disposable bags
   
19-1-10   Garbage
   
19-1-11   Hotel, motel, or rooming house
   
19-1-12   Premises and property
   
19-1-13   Quick food establishment
   
19-1-14   Rate schedule
   
19-1-14.1   Recyclable materials
   
19-1-15   Rubbish
   
19-1-16   Solid waste
   
19-1-17   Stationary containers
   
19-1-18   Yard waste
§ 19-1-1 TERMS; DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms set forth in succeeding sections
of this article shall have the meanings ascribed to them in such sections.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-2 ADEQUATE PREPARATION.
   ADEQUATE PREPARATION. The preparation of solid waste in a manner that
complies with this chapter and with all regulations adopted pursuant thereto by
the City Manager, and that will facilitate the collection process as determined
by the City Manager.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-3 APPROVED CONTAINER.
   APPROVED CONTAINER.
      (1)   A solid waste container designed for mechanical dumping that is
compatible with the dumping mechanism installed on the collection vehicles;
      (2)   A self-contained compactor containing unit with a capacity of 20 or
more cubic yards and of a design which has been specifically approved by the
City Manager or the designee of the City Manager. In the sole discretion of the
City Manager, approval for such containers may be revoked at any time; or
      (3)   Some other container which is designed and manufactured for use as
a solid waste container, is constructed of plastic or galvanized metal, is
watertight, has a capacity not to exceed 32 gallons, and has been specifically
approved as to construction by the City Manager or the designee of the City
Manager. In the sole discretion of the City Manager, approval may be revoked at
any time.
(Ord. 3482, passed - -1996)
§ 19-1-4 BUNDLE.
   BUNDLE. A package containing rubbish only, securely tied with wire, cord, or
rope. The longest dimension shall not exceed four feet and the total weight
shall not exceed 75 pounds. Material must be bundled in a manner that will
permit it to be handled by the ties without spillage.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-5 COLLECTION POINT.
   COLLECTION POINT. The point of collection for solid waste shall be adjacent
to the street right-of-way if no alley exists. Other locations that have been
mutually agreed upon by the owner or occupant and the City Manager or his or
her duly authorized representative are permissible.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-6 COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   COLLECTION SCHEDULE. The established routes of collection crews and
vehicles, designed to provide the regular removal and disposal of solid waste
from all premises within the corporate limits of the city. The schedule shall
provide such frequency as deemed adequate by the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-7 COLLECTION SERVICE.
   COLLECTION SERVICE. The regular collection and disposal of solid waste from
all residential and commercial properties.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-8 COMPACTED WASTE.
   COMPACTED WASTE. Solid waste which has been mechanically compacted or
compressed.
(Ord. 3176, passed - -1990)
§ 19-1-9 DISPOSABLE BAGS.
   DISPOSABLE BAGS. Bags made of paper or plastic for the specific purpose of
containing solid waste. Closure of bags must be accomplished by either tying
those made of plastic or by folding those made of paper, before placing them at
the collection points.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-10 GARBAGE.
   GARBAGE. Waste accumulations of animal, fruit, or vegetable matter that
attend the use and preparation of meat, fish, fowl, fruits, or vegetables, and
containers or packaging materials originally used for foodstuffs which become
and remain soiled from such use.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-11 HOTEL, MOTEL, OR ROOMING HOUSE.
   HOTEL, MOTEL or ROOMING HOUSE. A building, or group of buildings, containing
individual lodging units, generally without kitchen facilities, used for
temporary or semi-permanent occupancy.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-12 PREMISES AND PROPERTY.
   PREMISES and PROPERTY. All land, both public and private, within the
corporate limits of the city, and all public land of the city outside the
corporate limits of the city. Public land includes, but is not limited to,
public streets, alleys, and parks.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2298, passed - -1977)
§ 19-1-13 QUICK FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   QUICK FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business in which food is prepared and
sold at retail for consumption on the premises outside a building, or on
adjacent premises outside a building.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2298, passed - -1977)
§ 19-1-14 RATE SCHEDULE.
   RATE SCHEDULE. The charges established by the City Council for collection
and disposal services.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-14.1 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Solid waste approved for recycling by the City Manager
or the designee of the City Manager.
(Ord. 3507, passed - -1996)
§ 19-1-15 RUBBISH.
   RUBBISH. All refuse except garbage and yard waste. The term includes, but is
not limited to crockery, bottles, cans, vessels, pasteboard, rags, plastic,
paper, wood scraps, and similar materials.
(Ord. 3355, passed - -1994)
§ 19-1-16 SOLID WASTE.
   SOLID WASTE. Useless or discarded material, except as otherwise provided in
this section. The term includes garbage, rubbish, yard waste, and recyclable
materials, but does not include junk as defined in the municipal code, nor does
it include liquid or gaseous wastes.
(Ord. 3507, passed - -1996)
§ 19-1-17 STATIONARY CONTAINER.
   STATIONARY CONTAINER. A fixed bin or wire enclosure for bulky items such as
pasteboard boxes. The design and location of any stationary container must be
approved by the City Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-1-18 YARD WASTE.
   YARD WASTE. Accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, and other
materials collected as a result of the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines, and
gardens.
(Ord. 3355, passed - -1994)
ARTICLE 2: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
19-2-1   Solid waste; disposition; restrictions; general
   
19-2-2   Containers; required; specifications; collections
   
19-2-3   Solid waste; combustible; restrictions; nuisance
   
19-2-4   Lead-acid batteries; waste oil; tires; household appliances;
prohibited
   
19-2-5   Spillage; scattering
   
19-2-6   Destructive and injurious material; removal
   
19-2-7   Adequate preparation
   
19-2-8   Carcass; removal; burial; outside city
   
19-2-9   Quick food establishment
§ 19-2-1 SOLID WASTE; DISPOSITION; RESTRICTIONS; GENERAL.
   (A)   No person shall dispose of any solid waste at any place except at a
disposal area licensed by an appropriate state and environmental regulatory
agency, and in accordance with rules and regulations for such areas and
facilities prescribed by such Department and by the City Manager or the
designee of the City Manager.
   (B)   No person shall bring into the city solid waste exceeding one cubic
yard in mass or 15 pounds in weight for the purpose of depositing such solid
waste into an approved container.
(Ord. 3916, passed - -2006)
§ 19-2-2 CONTAINERS; REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS; COLLECTIONS.
   The owner or occupant of any premises within the corporate limits shall use
approved containers to contain all accumulations of solid waste that may occur
on the premises; provided, accumulations which, for a reason other than
quantity, cannot be confined in an approved container will be collected by the
city upon request made to the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager
by the owner or occupant of the premises. In the case of institutional,
business, and commercial establishments situated in the Central Business
District Zone (as created by Chapter 25 of this code), the City Manager, or his
or her designee, may direct that a particular container be used by more than
one such establishment. Collections in the latter zone shall be made weekly.
(Ord. 2809, passed - -1983)
§ 19-2-3 SOLID WASTE; COMBUSTIBLE; RESTRICTIONS; NUISANCE.
   The accumulation of, keeping, or disposal of combustible solid waste in the
fire limits of the city, as they are now or may hereafter be constituted, is
hereby declared to be a fire hazard. The accumulation, keeping, or disposal of
solid waste within the city in any manner other than as provided in this
chapter is hereby declared to be unlawful and a nuisance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-2-4 LEAD-ACID BATTERIES; WASTE OIL; TIRES; HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES;
PROHIBITED.
   Lead-acid batteries, waste oil, tires, and household appliances may not be
placed in any container intended for collection by the city.
(Ord. 3355, passed - -1994)
§ 19-2-5 SPILLAGE; SCATTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to:
   (A)   Haul, transport, handle, or store solid waste within the city in such
a manner as to cause or allow it to be strewn upon any street or alley or
public or private property; or
   (B)   Cause solid waste to be strewn upon any street or alley or public or
private property while filling an approved container, or while removing solid
waste from an approved container.
(Ord. 3915, passed - -2006)
§ 19-2-6 DESTRUCTIVE AND INJURIOUS MATERIAL; REMOVAL.
   Any person who deposits or permits to be deposited any destructive or
injurious material, or who is the operator of a vehicle involved in an accident
which causes such material to be deposited, upon a public street, alley, or
other public way, shall immediately remove or cause to be removed such
material.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2298, passed - -1977)
§ 19-2-7 ADEQUATE PREPARATION.
   The occupant or, if premises are unoccupied or the owner subscribes to the
city’s solid waste collection service, the owner of the premises shall be
responsible for the adequate preparation of solid waste, including the practice
of methods that will promote community cleanliness.
(Ord. 2809, passed - -1983)
§ 19-2-8 CARCASS; REMOVAL; BURIAL; OUTSIDE CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or the person having the care, custody,
and control of any animal that shall die to permit the carcass to be or remain
within the city for more than 24 hours after the death of the animal. It shall
be unlawful for any person to deposit or bury, or cause to be deposited or
buried on any street or alley or other place within the city, any carcass of
any dead animal, or to deposit or bury the carcass of any dead animal within
one mile of the city above the course of groundwater that is used for drinking
purposes by the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1972)
§ 19-2-9 QUICK FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
   Quick food establishments shall cause to be placed on the premises, adjacent
to each commonly used exit and in such position that solid waste can be
deposited in them by drivers of exiting vehicles without dismounting from the
vehicle and that they will not interfere with the visibility of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic on a public street, not less than two solid waste containers
of such design that solid waste can be so deposited in them.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2298, passed - -1977)
ARTICLE 3: MUNICIPAL COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
Section
   
19-3-1   Municipal collection and disposal system; established
   
19-3-2   Same; removal and collection by other persons
   
19-3-3   Collections; schedule
   
19-3-4   Same; containers; place
   
19-3-5   Same; building sites
   
19-3-6   Yard waste; disposition only in special containers; limitation on
number; violation; classification
   
19-3-7   Tree and shrubbery branch disposal
   
19-3-8   Collection and disposal charges
   
19-3-9   Rates; residential
   
19-3-10   Rates; yard waste
   
19-3-11   Same; institutional; business; commercial; industrial
   
19-3-12   Service charges; due date and delinquent bill; payment
   
19-3-13   Same; indigents
   
19-3-14   Disposal area; licensed; regulations
   
19-3-15   Same; waste; entry; deposit; molestation
   
19-3-16   Trees, brush, and yard waste; disposition at city disposal sites;
charges
   
19-3-17   Special collections; charges
   
19-3-18   Recyclable materials
§ 19-3-1 MUNICIPAL COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM; ESTABLISHED.
   The city shall operate a solid waste collection service within the city, and
a solid waste disposal service for the benefit of the inhabitants of the city.
Collection service shall be available to every residential unit and every
institutional, business, commercial, and industrial establishment provided, the
city shall not be required to collect solid waste of types which the city’s
collection equipment is not designed to handle. The city may refuse service
based on documented noncompliance with any provision of this chapter or upon a
failure to timely pay any charge authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 3482, passed - -1996)
§ 19-3-2 SAME; REMOVAL AND COLLECTION BY OTHER PERSONS.
   No solid waste may be removed or collected by any person, firm, or
corporation other than the city, a person or other entity specifically
authorized by the city to remove such solid waste, or the owner or occupant of
the premises.
(Ord. 3482, passed - -1996)
§ 19-3-3 COLLECTIONS; SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall prepare and publicize
all collection schedules.
   (B)   Collections of solid waste other than yard waste in residential areas
shall be made not less than one time each week.
   (C)   Institutional, business, commercial, and industrial establishments
shall be furnished collection and disposal service according to their
individual needs as determined by the City Manager or the designee of the City
Manager.
   (D)   Yard waste shall be collected for a period of eight months during each
calendar year. Yard waste collections shall be made not less than one time per
week. The specific dates will be specified each year depending on prevailing
weather conditions.
(Ord. 3482, passed - -1996)
§ 19-3-4 SAME; CONTAINERS; PLACE.
   The point of collection for solid waste shall be on the alley adjacent to
the property line if the property abuts an alley, or adjacent the back of curb
line if the property does not abut an alley. The City Manager, or his or her
designee, shall have the power to approve a different point of collection for
individual properties. Storage practices shall be consistent with efficient
collection and disposal procedures. The occupant or owner of property whose
collection point is adjacent to the back-of-curb line shall not allow any
containers to remain there except between 5:00 p.m. on the day preceding a
collection day and 10:00 p.m. on the collection day.
(Ord. 3355, passed - -1994)
§ 19-3-5 SAME; BUILDING SITES.
   The contractor for any building construction, remodeling, or repair project
shall maintain on the building site one or more containers, to be supplied by
the city on application of the contractor to the building site, into which
shall be deposited all solid waste resulting from or accumulating in connection
with the project work. Such container(s) shall be maintained at a collection
point which complies with the requirements in this article, except the
requirement concerning hours. Application for such container(s) shall be made
by the contractor in writing to the Sanitation Superintendent, who shall supply
form(s) for the purpose to the Planning and Building Official and shall be
submitted to such Official concurrently with the filing of an application for a
building permit under Article 1 of Chapter 4 of this code.
(Ord. 2704, passed - -1981)
§ 19-3-6 YARD WASTE; DISPOSITION ONLY IN SPECIAL CONTAINERS; LIMITATION ON
NUMBER; VIOLATION; CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Yard waste intended for collection by the city shall be placed in
either approved containers designated for yard waste, or paper composting bags
approved by the City Manager or his or her designee. The city shall not collect
any bag unless a sticker purchased from the city has been affixed to the bag.
No yard waste shall be placed in any container or bag not approved for the
disposition of yard waste, and only yard waste shall be placed in containers
approved for the disposition of yard waste. The city shall not be obliged to
make more than two collections of compost bags during a calendar year from any
premises. Each collection shall consist of no more than ten bags.
   (B)   A violation of this section is a Class I violation.
   (C)   This section shall be effective May 1, 1994.
(Ord. 3355, passed - -1994)
§ 19-3-7 TREE AND SHRUBBERY BRANCH DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No tree or shrubbery branch larger than one-inch in diameter shall be
placed in any container intended for collection by the city. Tree and shrubbery
branches smaller than one-inch in diameter may be placed in either approved
containers designated for yard waste or paper composting bags approved by the
City Manager or his or her designee. Tree and shrubbery branches larger than
one- inch in diameter shall be bundled as described in this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall be effective May 1, 1994.
(Ord. 3355, passed - -1994)
§ 19-3-8 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL CHARGES.
   The minimum charge for collection and disposal service shall cover
collection and disposal of the contents of approved containers; provided, the
minimum charge shall be payable in respect of every occupied residential unit
and every occupied institutional, business, or commercial establishment,
whether or not the service is requested. Additional charges for collection from
such units or establishments shall be made, in accordance with the rate
schedule, for solid waste which cannot be confined in an approved container.
The charge for collection and disposal service requested by and furnished to an
industrial establishment shall be made in accordance with the rate schedule.
(Ord. 2809, passed - -1983)
§ 19-3-9 RATES; RESIDENTIAL.
   The minimum monthly charges for collection and disposal service to
residential units for solid waste contained in approved containers shall be as
provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 19-3-10 RATES; YARD WASTE.
   The monthly charges for the disposition of one yard waste container shall be
as provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 19-3-11 SAME; INSTITUTIONAL; BUSINESS; COMMERCIAL; INDUSTRIAL.
   The monthly charges for collection and disposal of solid waste of
institutional, business, commercial, and industrial establishments, and solid
waste in required containers at construction sites, shall be based upon the
number of approved containers collected per collection. All charges will be
based on a container of 1.5 cubic yards unless the City Manager or his or her
designee authorizes the use of a different sized container; provided however
that charges for collection and disposal of solid waste from self-contained
compactor container units and open top roll off containers for construction
waste shall be as defined in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3482, passed - -1996)
§ 19-3-12 SERVICE CHARGES; DUE DATE AND DELINQUENT BILL; PAYMENT.
   All charges for solid waste collection and disposal service, as provided in
the rate schedule at
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code, shall be paid at the office of the Finance
Director when due according to the billing schedule. The charges for solid
waste collection and disposal services under this article shall be delinquent
17 days after the date of the bill. A penalty for late payment in the amount of
10% of the charge shall be added to each bill when payment has become
delinquent. The fact that service has continued after delinquency and payment
of such charges shall not be construed as a waiver in any manner of the right
to institute necessary and appropriate collection procedures. Whenever a bill
for collection and service is delinquent, the City Manager, or his or her
designee, may terminate collection and service.
(Ord. 3876, passed - -2005; Ord. 4195, passed - -2016)
§ 19-3-13 SAME; INDIGENTS.
   If the City Council shall find that any person is unable to afford
collection and disposal service, but that need for the service exists, the City
Council may order the service started and continued until further notice.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1979)
§ 19-3-14 DISPOSAL AREA; LICENSED; REGULATIONS.
   The city shall provide or contract for facilities and systems as necessary
for the safe and sanitary disposal of solid waste generated within the city.
(Ord. 3396, passed - -1994)
§ 19-3-15 SAME; WASTE; ENTRY; DEPOSIT; MOLESTATION.
   All solid waste deposited or existing upon or in any solid waste disposal
area owned or operated by the city shall be the property of the city. No person
shall enter upon such an area, dispose of any matter or thing, or carry off or
in any manner disturb or molest any matter or thing deposited or existing, in
or upon such an area, except with permission and under the direction of the
City Manager or the designee of the City Manager.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1945, passed - -1979)
§ 19-3-16 TREES, BRUSH, AND YARD WASTE; DISPOSITION AT CITY DISPOSAL SITES;
CHARGES.
   Every person who shall dispose of trees, brush, or yard waste in any
disposal site of the city shall effective April 1, 1992, pay a fee prior to the
disposal based upon the charges per cubic yard as provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 19-3-17 SPECIAL COLLECTIONS; CHARGES.
   Upon request, the city may, but is not required to, make special collections
of solid waste. When such a collection is made, the charges shall be as
provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
§ 19-3-18 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   The City Manager shall promulgate regulations pertaining to the cleaning and
sorting of recyclable materials. Recyclable materials intended for collection
shall be cleaned and sorted according to such guidelines, and shall be placed
in separate containers as approved by the City Manager or the designee of the
City Manager. The city may refuse to pick up, or may refuse to accept as its
designated disposal sites, any recyclable materials not prepared in accordance
with such guidelines. The charges for the disposition of the recyclable
materials shall be as provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3507, passed - -1996)
ARTICLE 4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
Section
   
19-4-1   Violations; classification
   
19-4-2   Same; presumption
§ 19-4-1 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter which is not specifically
classified otherwise is a Class II violation.
   (B)   A person who removes or causes to be removed solid waste from a
residential unit or institutional, commercial, or industrial establishment in
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class I
violation.
   (C)   Each day that a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable as such.
(Ord. 3482, passed - -1996)
§ 19-4-2 SAME; PRESUMPTION.
   Whenever solid waste is thrown, scattered, placed, or deposited upon any
premises or property from any motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
this chapter, the person operating such motor vehicle shall be presumed to have
caused or permitted such solid waste to have been so thrown, scattered, placed,
or deposited; provided, such presumption shall be rebuttable.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2298, passed - -1977), Alleys, and Sidewalks
CHAPTER 20: STREETS, ALLEYS, AND SIDEWALKS
   Article
      
1.   STREETS, BUILDINGS, AND DESIGNATION
      
2.   STREETS; IMPROVEMENT; MAINTENANCE
      
3.   SIDEWALKS AND CURBS; CONSTRUCTION; REPAIR
      
4.   PARKING; IMPROVEMENTS
      
5.   CONSTRUCTION IN OR NEAR STREET
      
6.   OBSTRUCTION; USE
      
7.   TREES
Statutory reference:
   City authority to regulate street use, see Neb. RS 16-207 et seq.
ARTICLE 1: STREETS, BUILDINGS, AND DESIGNATION
Section
   
20-1-1   Streets; names; numbers; required; adoption; procedure
   
20-1-2   Unnamed platted streets, alleys, ways; name
   
20-1-3   Names; platted streets, alleys, and ways; names changed
   
20-1-4   South Belt Line Highway
   
20-1-5   College Park
   
20-1-6   Avenue K segment
   
20-1-7   Repealed
   
20-1-8   Repealed
   
20-1-9   Markers; required; specifications; maintenance
   
20-1-10   Signs; removal; injury; prohibited
   
20-1-11   Buildings; numbering plan; duty
   
20-1-12   Numbers; display; owner; occupant; duty
   
20-1-13   Violations; classification
Statutory reference:
   House numbers, see Neb. RS 16-614
§ 20-1-1 STREETS; NAMES; NUMBERS; REQUIRED; ADOPTION; PROCEDURE.
   All streets within the city shall be designated by appropriate name or
number in such manner as the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager
shall suggest in the first instance, taking into consideration the plan
followed in naming and numbering the same in the original town and subsequent
additions thereto, which suggestions, together with amendments or alterations,
if any, desired by the City Council, shall be adopted from time to time by
ordinance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-1-2 UNNAMED PLATTED STREETS, ALLEYS, WAYS; NAME.
   The following platted streets, alleys, or public roads or ways for which no
name appears in the plat
are hereby named as follows:
   (A)   Bluffs Tracts, the unnamed road or public way is named 37th Street;
   (B)   TL I 1, NE 1/4, Section 27, 22N, R 55W, the unnamed north-south street
is named Avenue Q;
   (C)   Park View Tracts, the unnamed north-south street (sometimes known as
Park View Lane) is named Avenue 0, and the alley and abutting unnamed way are
named West 11th Street;
   (D)   Schlichtemier Subdivision, the unnamed public road situated between
the south boundary of Lot 4 and the north boundaries of Lots 5 and 6 is named
112th Street, and the unnamed public road abutting the east boundaries of Lots
1, 3, 4 and 6, and extending from the south boundary of West Overland Drive to
an easterly extension of the South Boundary of Lot 6 is named Buckeye Avenue;
and
   (E)   Bluffs View Tracts, the alley and abutting unnamed way are named West
11th Street.
(Ord. 3510, passed - -1996)
§ 20-1-3 NAMES; PLATTED STREETS, ALLEYS, AND WAYS; NAMES CHANGED.
   The names of the following streets and alleys, or part of a street or alley,
as shown in plats thereof, are hereby changed to read as follows:
   (A)   In Idlewylde Addition, Blocks 6 and 7, Larkspur Drive is renamed
Larkspur Court;
   (B)   In James Tracts, James Street is renamed Avenue R;
   (C)   In Willana Park Second Addition, Larkspur Drive is renamed Sunrise
Drive;
   (D)   In Northeast Second Addition and Fifth and Twenty-Seventh Addition,
respectively, 7th Avenue is renamed Circle Drive;
   (E)   In Sample Subdivision, Service Road is renamed West 11th Street;
   (F)   In Leeling Subdivision, Hackberry Avenue is renamed Paradise Haven;
   (G)   In Sitzman Subdivision, Broadway Avenue is renamed Ross Avenue;
   (H)   In Quindt Commercial Tracts, Frontage Road is renamed Circle Avenue;
   (I)   The name of that portion of 7th Avenue as platted between 26th and
27th Streets is renamed Circle Drive;
   (J)   That portion of Frontage Road located north and east of U.S. Highway
No. 26 is renamed North Frontage Road;
   (K)   That portion of Frontage Road located south and west of U.S. Highway
No. 26 is renamed South Frontage Road;
   (L)   Ruory Drive is renamed as and made a part of 34th Street;
   (M)   The remaining remnant of West 39th Street is renamed as Burlington
Boulevard;
   (N)   In Hilltop Estates Subdivision, Hilltop Place is renamed Hilltop
Estate Place; and
   (O)   That unimproved street west of Quindt Commercial Tract, Tract 1, Block
2, named Easton Drive is renamed 18th Avenue.
(Ord. 3510, passed - -1996; Ord. 4184, passed - -2016; Ord. 4268, passed 11-15-
2021; Ord. 4324, passed 3-4-2024)
§ 20-1-4 SOUTH BELT LINE HIGHWAY.
   That part of the southernmost continuous public street or road in the city
which extends from Broadway Avenue to Avenue B (and commonly is known as 5th
Street) and thence in a northwesterly and westerly direction to the corporate
limits of the city, as now or hereafter constituted, is hereby named South Belt
Line Highway West. That part of the southernmost continuous public street or
road in the city which extends from Broadway Avenue to 5th Avenue (and commonly
is known as 5th Street) and thence in an easterly and southeasterly direction
to the corporate limits of the city, as now or hereafter constituted, is hereby
named South Belt Line Highway East.
(Ord. 3510, passed - -1996)
§ 20-1-5 COLLEGE PARK.
   The name of the following street, as shown in the plat thereof, is hereby
changed as follows: Sykes Addition, Blocks One through Five, Sykes Boulevard is
renamed College Park.
(Ord. 3789, passed - -2004)
§ 20-1-6 AVENUE K SEGMENT.
   There hereby is dedicated to public use as a public street of the city the
following described unplatted tract of land situated in the Northeast Quarter
(NE 1/4) of Section Twenty-Seven (27), Township Twenty-Two (22) North, Range
Fifty-Five (55) West of the 6th Principal Meridian, in the City of Scottsbluff,
Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska: beginning at a point 708.7 feet west and 33 feet
south of the northeast corner of such section; thence south 905.6 feet; thence
west 21 feet; thence north 905.6 feet; thence east 21 feet to the point of
beginning, and such street is hereby named a segment of Avenue K of the city.
(Ord. 3063, passed - -1987)
§ 20-1-7 REPEALED.
§ 20-1-8 REPEALED.
§ 20-1-9 MARKERS; REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS; MAINTENANCE.
   All streets shall be plainly marked at each corner by signs bearing their
proper names or numbers legibly painted in letters and figures, in dimensions
at least two and one-half inches high.
§ 20-1-10 SIGNS; REMOVAL; INJURY; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface, or injure any street
sign, name, or number.
§ 20-1-11 BUILDINGS; NUMBERING PLAN; DUTY.
   All residences, storerooms, and other buildings facing on any street in the
city shall be numbered. In the case of streets that run from a southerly to a
northerly direction, buildings on the east side shall bear odd numbers, and
buildings on the west side shall bear even numbers, the first number in each
block to be that of the intersecting street immediately to the south multiplied
by 100. In the case of streets east of Broadway Avenue, or a geometrical
projection thereof, that run in a westerly to easterly direction, buildings on
the north side shall bear odd numbers, and buildings on the south side shall
bear even numbers, the first number in each block to be that of the
intersecting street immediately to the west multiplied by 100, except that in
blocks abutting upon Broadway Avenue, the first number in each block shall be
one. In the case of streets west of Broadway Avenue, or a geometrical
projection thereof, that run in an easterly to westerly direction, buildings on
the north side shall bear odd numbers, and buildings on the south side shall
bear even numbers, the first number in each block to be that of the
intersecting street immediately to the east multiplied by 100, except that in
blocks abutting upon Broadway Avenue, the first number in each block shall be
one. One number shall be used for each 25 feet of lot line, unless the City
Manager shall designate a lesser distance. The City Manager, or the designee of
the City Manager, shall assign the number to be borne by each building.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-1-12 NUMBERS; DISPLAY; OWNER, OCCUPANT; DUTY.
   Each number referred to in this article shall be displayed in a conspicuous
place upon the residence, storeroom, or other building to which the number has
been assigned, or upon the curb in front of the premises, in figures not less
than two and one-half inches high and in accordance with other standard
specifications prescribed by the City Manager or the designee of the City
Manager. It shall be the duty of the owner and the occupant of every residence,
storeroom, or other building to which a number has been assigned as provided in
this article to display such number in the manner provided in this section, and
it shall be unlawful for any person to number any building except in strict
compliance with the provisions of § 20-1-11 of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-1-13 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class I violation.
ARTICLE 2: STREETS; IMPROVEMENT; MAINTENANCE
Section
   
20-2-1   Gutters; street corners; specifications
   
20-2-2   Cost; assessment; levy; collection
Statutory reference:
   Grading and repair of streets, see Neb. RS 16-249
   Street improvement, see Neb. RS 16-609 et seq.
§ 20-2-1 GUTTERS; STREET CORNERS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The form, width, and depth of the gutter and corner of streets, together
with the specifications concerning the construction of the same, shall be
determined by the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager, in each
case, as such street improvement may be ordered by the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-2-2 COST; ASSESSMENT; LEVY; COLLECTION.
   All special assessments upon lots and pieces of ground adjacent to and
abutting upon the street or alley in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed,
curbed, and guttered, graded, paved, repaved, graveled, macadamized, parked,
extended, constructed, or otherwise improved or repaired or which may be
specially benefitted by any of such improvements shall be made by the City
Council at any meeting by a resolution fixing the costs of such improvement
work along the lot or parcel of land adjacent thereto as a special assessment
thereon, which, with the amount charged against the same and the vote thereon
by “yeas” and “nays”, shall be spread at length upon the minutes. Such
assessments shall be known as “special assessments for improvements”, and,
together with the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special
tax, in addition to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same
penalties and collected in like manner as other city taxes. The same shall be
certified to the County Clerk at the same time as the next certification for
general revenue purposes.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
ARTICLE 3: SIDEWALKS AND CURBS; CONSTRUCTION; REPAIR
Section
   
20-3-1   Sidewalks; grade
   
20-3-2   Same; distance from lot line
   
20-3-3   Same; curb sidewalks; variance
   
20-3-4   Same; width; slope; Broadway Avenue; main business district
   
20-3-5   Same; width; other streets
   
20-3-6   Same; thickness; foundation; bed; topping coat; finishing
   
20-3-7   Curbs; specifications
   
20-3-8   Other plans; specifications; preparation; approval; compliance
   
20-3-9   Sidewalks; new construction; property owner; notice to
   
20-3-10   Repair; safe condition; property owner; duty
   
20-3-11   Same; property owner; notice; replacement, reconstruction, and
repairs
   
20-3-12   Same; notice; contents; service
   
20-3-13   Reserved
   
20-3-14   Construction; reconstruction; repair; by city; assessment
   
20-3-15   Construction; by property owner; permit; survey; required
   
20-3-16   Same; permit; application; approval
   
20-3-17   Same; survey; conformity with; fees
   
20-3-18   Exceptions
   
20-3-19   Violations; classification
Statutory reference:
   Construction and repair of sidewalks, see Neb. RS 16-250, 16-661 et seq.,
and 19-2417 et seq.
§ 20-3-1 SIDEWALKS; GRADE.
   All sidewalks shall be constructed upon the established grade for the city
as shown by the grade book. Provided, if the sidewalk is to be constructed at a
place where the street has not been brought to the grade established by the
city, the City Council may, by resolution, permit such sidewalk to be built on
such grade as the resolution may provide.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-3-2 SAME; DISTANCE FROM LOT LINE.
   (A)   The inside edge of all sidewalks within the fire limits shall abut the
lot line. The inside edge of all sidewalks lying outside the fire limits shall
be 12 inches from the lot line; provided, curb sidewalks may be constructed in
circumstances as herein provided. Curb sidewalks may be constructed in areas
outside the corporate limits:
      (1)   Extending for not less than the whole length of the block, at the
election of the owners of the adjoining lots or tracts of land; or
      (2)   Extending for less than the whole length of the block, at the
election of the owners of the adjoining lots or tracts of land, if a variance
for that purpose shall be granted by the City Council as provided in this
article.
   (B)   Curb sidewalks may be constructed in areas inside the corporate
limits:
      (1)   Upon application to the City Clerk on forms provided for that
purpose;
      (2)   With the written consent of adjoining landowners; and
      (3)   With approval of the City Manager or the designee of the City
Manager.
(Ord. 3220, passed - -1992)
§ 20-3-3 SAME; CURB SIDEWALKS; VARIANCE.
   The City Council, upon the filing with the City Clerk of an application as
herein provided, may grant a variance permitting the construction of a curb
sidewalk extending for less than the whole length of a block if the City
Council shall find that:
   (A)   Strict application of the requirement that a curb sidewalk extend not
less than the whole length of a block would create peculiar and exceptional
practical difficulties, or exceptional and undue hardship to users of the
sidewalk or adjacent lots or tracts;
   (B)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the same
vicinity;
   (C)   The authorization of such a variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the area will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
   (D)   The granting of such a variance is based upon reason of demonstrable
and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for purposes of
convenience, profit, or caprice. The application for such a variance shall be
in writing, in such form as the City Clerk shall prescribe, and shall be signed
by the owner(s) of all lots or tracts which would abut the proposed curb
sidewalk. The City Clerk shall cause a courtesy notice of such an application,
to be given to the owner(s) of lots or tracts in the same block which abut or
are adjacent to non-curb sidewalks on the same side of the street which have
been or may be constructed.
(Ord. 2752, passed - -1982)
§ 20-3-4 SAME; WIDTH; SLOPE; BROADWAY AVENUE; MAIN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   The width of all sidewalks in front of lots abutting on Broadway
Avenue shall be as follows:
      (1)   Lots between 16th Street and 19th Street: 16 feet;
      (2)   Lots between railroad right-of-way of Burlington Northern, Inc.,
and 16th Street, and between 19th Street and 20th Street: 14 feet; and
      (3)   All other lots: five feet.
   (B)   The width of all sidewalks on East 15th Street between Broadway Avenue
and 1st Avenue, and on 16th, 17th, 18th, and 19th Streets, and on the south
side of 20th Street, all between Avenue A and 1st Avenue, shall be ten feet.
   (C)   All such walks shall have a continuous slope for drainage from the
building line to the curb, in accordance with plans and specifications approved
by the City Council or, in the absence thereof, by the City Manager or the
designee of the City Manager.
(Ord. 2741, passed - -1982)
§ 20-3-5 SAME; WIDTH; OTHER STREETS.
   The width of all sidewalks on all other streets, and parts of streets, in
the city shall be not less than
the following:
   (A)   Curb sidewalks: five feet; and
   (B)   Other sidewalks (located 12 inches from property line): four feet.
(Ord. 2741, passed - -1982)
§ 20-3-6 SAME; THICKNESS; FOUNDATION; BED; TOPPING COAT; FINISHING.
   All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete with good and sufficient
foundation. The foundation shall be of gravel, broken stone, or cinders, must
be firm, porous, and well-compacted and of sufficient thickness and have
suitable and sufficient drainage to prevent all settling and cracking. The
concrete bed, except the part thereof subject to vehicular travel, shall be not
less than four inches in thickness; the part thereof that is subject to
vehicular travel shall be not less than five inches in thickness. It shall be
composed of one part of cement, three parts of sand, and six parts of gravel,
broken stone or cinders, and shall be cut through into blocks not more than
four by six feet in size. The topping coat shall be a coat of cement mortar
composed of three parts cement and five parts of coarse, sharp, clean sand.
After finishing with a straight edge, the topping shall be cut through on the
lines of the joints already formed, and the edges shall be rounded or beveled.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-3-7 CURBS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Curbs, where constructed without gutters, shall be four inches wide at the
top and not less than six inches wide at the street surface, shall be firmly
set into the ground so as to prevent all defective alignment, and shall not
rise to exceed one inch above the surface of the sidewalk immediately adjacent
thereto. All curbs shall be constructed of natural or cement stone, and the
surface shall be finished in the same manner as is provided in this article
with respect to sidewalks.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-3-8 OTHER PLANS; SPECIFICATIONS; PREPARATION; APPROVAL; COMPLIANCE.
   The City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall prepare such
other plans and technical specifications as to the construction or
reconstruction of sidewalks and curbs from time to time as public safety and
convenience require, and all sidewalks and curbs hereafter constructed or
reconstructed shall conform to such of those plans and specifications as may be
approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-3-9 SIDEWALKS; NEW CONSTRUCTION; PROPERTY OWNER; NOTICE TO.
   Whenever the City Council shall order that a sidewalk be constructed in
front of any lot or piece of ground in the city in a place where there is no
sidewalk, the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, thereupon
shall notify in writing the owner of such lot or piece of ground of the work or
improvement to be done, and such owner so notified shall be allowed one year
from the service of such notice within which to construct such sidewalk. Such
notice shall be given by delivering the same to the owner in person or by
leaving it at his or her usual place of residence in the city, or if he or she
be a nonresident of the city, by publication of such notice one time in a legal
newspaper published in and of general circulation in the city. Such notice
shall notify such owner of the passage of the resolution ordering the
construction of such sidewalk; that he or she will have one year from and after
the service of notice upon him or her in person or by leaving it at his or her
usual place of residence in the city, or from day of publication in the event
of notice in that manner, within which to construct the sidewalk so ordered or
cause the same to be done; and that if he or she fails to construct such
sidewalk, or cause the same to be done, within one year after such notice, then
and in that case, the city will cause such sidewalk to be constructed and the
cost will be levied and assessed thereafter by the City Council as a special
tax against such premises.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 3685, passed - -2001)
§ 20-3-10 REPAIR; SAFE CONDITION; PROPERTY OWNER; DUTY.
   Every owner of any lot or lots, or piece of land within the city shall, at
all times, keep and maintain the sidewalk in the area contiguous to such lot,
lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair, and in
a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers, and it shall be
unlawful for such owner to allow such sidewalk to be placed or remain in a
dangerous condition.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 3691, passed - -2001)
§ 20-3-11 SAME; PROPERTY OWNER; NOTICE; REPLACEMENT, RECONSTRUCTION, AND
REPAIRS.
   Whenever the City Council shall order that any sidewalk be replaced,
reconstructed, or repaired, the City Manager or the designee of the City
Manager, shall designate, shall serve upon the owner of the lot or tract
contiguous or adjacent to which the sidewalk is situated a notice to cause such
work to be done. Such work shall be done within one year after service of the
notice, unless the City Council shall find there exists, because of disrepair
of the sidewalk, a hazard to persons or property which is so immediate and
substantial as to require replacement, reconstruction, or repair sooner, in
which event the City Council may order the work to be done in such lesser
reasonable time as the City Council shall specify, and the work shall be done
by the owner of the contiguous or adjacent lot or tract within the time so
specified.
(Ord. 3680, passed - -2001)
§ 20-3-12 SAME; NOTICE; CONTENTS; SERVICE.
   The notice referred to in §
20-3-11 of this article shall be in writing signed by the City Manager, and be
addressed to the owner of the contiguous or adjacent lot or tract, and shall
notify the owner that the City Council has ordered the sidewalk to be replaced,
reconstructed, or repaired; shall identify the sidewalk or part thereof as to
which such work is to be done; shall describe repairs, if any, to be made;
shall state the time within which such work shall be completed; and shall
inform the owner that, upon the owner’s failure to cause the work to be done as
ordered, the city will do the work, or cause it to be done, and will assess the
cost thereof to the lot or tract as authorized by law. Service of the notice
shall be made by delivering a copy thereof to the owner if the owner resides
within the corporate limits of the city. Provided, if the owner does not
reside, or after diligent search cannot be found, within the corporate limits
of the city, a copy of the notice shall be sent to the owner by certified or
registered mail to the last known address of the owner; provided, further, if
no address of the owner can be ascertained after diligent inquiry, a copy of
the notice shall be delivered to the person, if any, who is in actual
possession of the premises or a person who is the agent of the owner for the
purpose of renting, or collecting rentals on, the property or, if the premises
are unoccupied, shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Service
of notice by mailing or posting shall be deemed complete upon mailing or
posting as herein provided.
(Ord. 3097, passed - -1988)
§ 20-3-13 RESERVED.
§ 20-3-14 CONSTRUCTION; RECONSTRUCTION; REPAIR; BY CITY; ASSESSMENT.
   If any such owner shall neglect or refuse, or shall have failed after notice
has been given as provided in this article, to construct, reconstruct, or
repair any sidewalk within the time limited in the notice given in such case,
and whose duty it is made by this article to construct, reconstruct, or repair
such sidewalk, the City Manager shall proceed at once without further notice to
such owner or person to have such sidewalk constructed, reconstructed, or
repaired, as the case may be, and the expense of such work shall be assessed to
such lot or piece of land, and collected as provided by law. Provided, nothing
in this article shall be construed to limit the power of the city to construct,
reconstruct, or repair sidewalks and, as the case may be, assess the cost
thereof, all in a manner authorized in statutes of the state which do not
require, as a condition precedent to the doing of the work by the city and
assessment of the cost thereof, a notice to abutting landowners to do the work.
(Ord. 2742, passed - -1982; Ord. 3691, passed - -2001)
§ 20-3-15 CONSTRUCTION; BY PROPERTY OWNER; PERMIT; SURVEY; REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to construct or cause to be constructed any sidewalk or
curbing on any street or avenue abutting his or her property in the city shall
obtain a permit and survey as hereinafter provided; and it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct any sidewalk or curbing without first having
obtained such permit and survey.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-3-16 SAME; PERMIT; APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   Application for such permit shall be made in writing, shall contain a
description of the lot or piece of land along which it is desired to construct
such sidewalk or curbing, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
Upon the filing of such application, the City Clerk shall deliver the same to
the City Manager who shall grant such permit unless good cause shall appear why
such permit should be denied. Provided, if it is desired to construct such
sidewalk or curbing at other than the regularly prescribed location, grade, or
elevation, or such curbing of other than the regularly prescribed type of
construction, the City Manager, or his or her designee, shall submit such
application to the City Council, who shall determine whether such permit shall
be granted or denied.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-3-17 SAME; SURVEY; CONFORMITY WITH; FEES.
   When a permit is granted for construction of sidewalk or curbing, the City
Manager shall cause to be made a survey and shall cause stakes to be set
indicating the location, grade, and elevation of such sidewalk or curbing, and
it shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to be constructed,
such sidewalk or curbing at any other location, grade, or elevation than so
designated. Such survey shall be made and stakes set within ten days after a
permit is granted as provided in this section. The fees of such engineer shall
be paid by the city, but if the person obtaining the permit and survey fails or
neglects to construct such sidewalk or curbing within 60 days thereafter, such
applicant shall be liable to the city for the expense of such survey as
determined by the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, which
amount shall be included in the special assessment and considered as a special
benefit.
§ 20-3-18 EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Council, for good cause shown, may grant an exception to any of the
requirements in this article.
(Ord. 3432, passed - -1995)
§ 20-3-19 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. Each
day of violation after the giving of the notice described in §
20-3-11 of this article shall constitute a separate offense.
ARTICLE 4: PARKING IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
20-4-1   Parking; improvement; City Council may order and permit; by resolution
   
20-4-2   Retaining walls; restrictions; general
   
20-4-3   Fences; restrictions; general
   
20-4-4   Decorative landscape features
   
20-4-5   Same; permitted fences and walls
   
20-4-6   Same; removability; removal
   
20-4-7   Violations; penalty
§ 20-4-1 PARKING; IMPROVEMENT; CITY COUNCIL MAY ORDER AND PERMIT; BY
RESOLUTION.
   The City Council may, by resolution, permit the use for parking or lawn of
any portion of any street within the city that, in the judgment of the City
Council, shall not be required for actual travel. The permission may be revoked
by the City Council at any time it finds that such portion is required by the
city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-4-2 RETAINING WALLS; RESTRICTIONS; GENERAL.
   (A)   A retaining wall not exceeding 18 inches in height may be constructed
within the area between the lot line and curbline if situated a distance of not
less than two feet from the inside edge of the sidewalk or, if there be no
sidewalk, not less than five and one-half feet from the curbline and if, in
addition:
      (1)   The City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, determine
that the wall is reasonably necessary for landscape structural or design
purposes; or
      (2)   The wall is a decorative landscape feature.
   (B)   Provided, such a retaining wall may be constructed less than two feet
from the inside edge of the sidewalk or, if there be no sidewalk, less than
five and one-half feet from the curbline (but not within the area in which a
sidewalk, conformable in design to existing sidewalks on adjacent property,
could be constructed) if the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager,
determine that the wall in such location is reasonably necessary to provide
support to soil or to accomplish a coherent or aesthetic grade design.
(Ord. 2681, passed - -1981)
§ 20-4-3 FENCES; RESTRICTIONS; GENERAL.
   No fence shall be erected or maintained in the area between the lot line and
the curbline adjacent to a required front yard or side yard of a lot or tract
of land zoned residential, except as authorized in this article.
(Ord. 2681, passed - -1981)
§ 20-4-4 DECORATIVE LANDSCAPE FEATURES.
   (A)   No decorative landscape feature, to include fences or retaining walls,
shall be placed or maintained for corner lots, within a triangular area bounded
on two sides by the intersecting street right-of-way lines and on the third
side by a line connecting points on each right-of-way line which are 20 feet
from their intersection; or for all other lots, within the area between the lot
line and curbline, unless:
      (1)   It is located at least two feet from the inside edge of the
sidewalk or, if there be no sidewalk, at least five and one-half feet from the
curbline;
      (2)   It is no more than 30 inches high, measured above the nearest
surface of pavement of the nearest street, or 12 inches high if located within
eight feet from a fire hydrant;
      (3)   It does not occupy in excess of 50% of the front footage of the
lot;
      (4)   It does not materially obstruct the vision of operators of motor
vehicles whether from a street or private driveway; and
      (5)   In the case of a decorative fence, at least 50% of the total
vertical area of the fence is open.
   (B)   No decorative landscape feature shall be placed or maintained within
the restricted area if the Planning and Building Official shall determine that
the decorative landscape feature constitutes, or would constitute, a hazard to
pedestrians. In addition, all decorative landscape features must comply with
any applicable provisions of Chapter 25 of this code.
(Ord. 3342, passed - -1994)
§ 20-4-5 SAME; PERMITTED FENCES AND WALLS.
   Decorative landscape features which are permitted under this article, but
are not limited to:
   (A)   Split-rail decorative fences;
   (B)   Ornamental iron decorative fences, not including chain-link fences;
   (C)   Wood decorative fences; and
   (D)   Brick decorative fences and solid decorative retaining walls.
(Ord. 2681, passed - -1981)
§ 20-4-6 SAME; REMOVABILITY; REMOVAL.
   Anything in any other section of this article to the contrary
notwithstanding, any decorative landscape feature constructed within the area
between the curb and lot line shall be of such material and design that it will
be readily removable, as determined by the City Manager, or the designee of the
City Manager, in the event of widening of the traveled portion of the street,
the construction of sidewalks (if within the sidewalk area), or the
construction, maintenance, replacement, or operation of any water or sanitary
sewer main or service line, sanitary sewer, gas line, or power, telephone,
cable television, or other utility lines or poles. If removal of a decorative
landscape feature for any of such purposes shall be necessary, as determined by
the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, with respect to street
widening, sidewalks, water, or sanitary sewer mains or lines or storm sewers,
or by a private utility having a right to construct, maintain, replace, or
operate a line or pole within the area, the decorative landscape feature shall
be removed by the owner of the abutting property at the owner’s expense and, if
replaced, shall be replaced at such owner’s expense. If the feature shall not
be replaced, the surface of the ground shall be restored by such owner at his
or her expense.
(Ord. 2681, passed - -1981)
§ 20-4-7 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. Each
day that a violation continues to exist after notification of such violation by
the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager shall constitute a
separate offense.
ARTICLE 5: CONSTRUCTION IN OR NEAR STREET
Section
   
20-5-1   Excavations; permit; required
   
20-5-2   Application; contents
   
20-5-3   Same; investigation; bond
   
20-5-4   Permit; exhibiting
   
20-5-5   Public safety requirements; workers; knowledge
   
20-5-6   Frozen ground; freezing temperature; restrictions
   
20-5-7   Barricades; lighting
   
20-5-8   Obstruction of sidewalk; walkway around
   
20-5-9   Leftover materials; removal; by holder of permit
   
20-5-10   Backfilling; by holder of permit
   
20-5-11   Removal of leftover materials; backfilling; by city; expense; charge;
collection
   
20-5-12   Excavations; prospective paving; notice to persons affected;
restrictions
   
20-5-13   Cutting into paving, curb, sidewalk; permit; required
   
20-5-14   Same; application; investigation
   
20-5-15   Same; deposit; required; conditions
   
20-5-16   Same; bond; required; conditions
   
20-5-17   Same; work; manner; by whom done
   
20-5-18   Reserved
   
20-5-19   Curb cuts; requirements; restrictions
   
20-5-20   Driveways; aprons; over curbs; corners; permit; bond; specifications
   
20-5-21   Same; when streets curbed, guttered, and paved; owner; notice to;
cost; assessment
   
20-5-22   Buildings; other structures; prohibited; nuisance; exceptions
   
20-5-23   Building materials; storage; permit; required; issued; when
   
20-5-24   Hydrants; fountains; restrictions
   
20-5-25   Repealed
   
20-5-26   Repealed
   
20-5-27   Repealed
   
20-5-28   Traffic signs; exception
   
20-5-29   Repealed
   
20-5-30   Repealed
   
20-5-31   Barbed wire fence; prohibited; removal
   
20-5-32   Curb; buffer block; in alley; restrictions
   
20-5-33   Unnecessary delay; prohibited; determination
   
20-5-34   Violations; penalty
§ 20-5-1 EXCAVATIONS; PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to dig, or make
any ditch, drain, or excavation in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk,
parkway, or public place or ground in the city without having made application
and obtained a permit therefor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-2 APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   Such application shall state the name of the person, firm, or corporation
desiring the permit and the name of the person doing the work; shall recite
specifically, and illustrate by sketch or plan on the back thereof, the exact
location, width, depth, and length of the excavation desired to be made; and
shall state for what purpose it is required, and the probable length of time
required for its completion.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-3 SAME; INVESTIGATION; BOND.
   Upon the application of any person, firm, or corporation for such a permit,
the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall make an
investigation of such application to ascertain the need of such excavation and
that such excavation would not violate the provisions of this article. If the
application is in proper form, the investigation discloses that the excavation
is necessary and would not violate any provision of this article, and a bond,
as provided in this section, is filed with the City Clerk, a permit shall be
granted by the City Manager, or his or her designee; otherwise, a permit shall
not be issued. The bond shall be signed by the applicant and two good and
sufficient sureties or an approved surety company; shall be in the amount of
$1,000; and shall be conditioned that, in case of injury to any public utility
installation, the bond shall be forfeited, unless the applicant shall pay the
expense of repairs within 60 days after occurrence of the injury, and that the
applicant will indemnify and hold harmless the city from any and all liability
for injuries caused by or in connection with the excavation or excavation work.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-4 PERMIT; EXHIBITING.
   The permit herein provided for shall be kept at the place of work until
completion and must be exhibited to any officer of the city authorized to
examine the same.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-5 PUBLIC SAFETY REQUIREMENTS; WORKERS; KNOWLEDGE.
   Persons doing the work shall be familiar with all public safety
requirements.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-6 FROZEN GROUND; FREEZING TEMPERATURE; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall make any excavation in any street, alley, or public place
within six feet of any laid water pipe while the ground is frozen, or dig up or
uncover so as to expose to the frost, any water pipe in the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-7 BARRICADES; LIGHTING.
   Every person, firm, or corporation, whether engaged in public work or
private, who shall dig or cause to be dug, any excavation whatsoever,
including, but not limiting preparation for hard surfacing streets, in or
adjoining any highway, street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in the
city, shall cause the same to be guarded with a substantial fence or railing
barricade not less than three feet high, with red warning flags attached
thereto spaced so that there is a red flag at least every ten feet on such
barricade. Such barricade or barricades shall be so placed as to prevent
persons, animals, or vehicles from falling therein and shall display the name
of the person, firm, or corporation making such excavation. Barricades shall be
painted in a conspicuous color that will reflect and stand out when lights are
flashed thereon. In addition to such barricades, such excavations shall be
surrounded by flares or lights burning continuously at all times during hours
of darkness. Such flares or lights shall be securely and conspicuously posted
on or near excavations or piles of material caused by such excavation to
prevent danger to persons, animals, or vehicles.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-8 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALK; WALKWAY AROUND.
   Whenever in the construction, rebuilding, or repairing of any building
areaway, stairway, or of any excavation in any street right-of-way, it becomes
necessary to blockade, obstruct, or remove the sidewalk, the person, firm, or
corporation in charge of such work shall build a substantial walkway to be
approved by the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, around,
across, or under such obstruction. Such walkway shall be built ready for travel
before any sidewalk is removed or obstructed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2581, passed - -1980)
§ 20-5-9 LEFTOVER MATERIALS; REMOVAL; BY HOLDER OF PERMIT.
   When any excavations are made in any public street, alley, or place, paving
and resurfacing materials shall be kept separate from other materials and
deposited in such manner as will permit their reuse, and all excavated
materials shall be so placed as to cause the least inconvenience to the public
and shall be so placed as not to obstruct the streets, gutters, and drainage at
any time. Materials from the excavation that are not to be used in backfilling
and repair shall be removed from the street, alley, or place immediately.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-10 BACKFILLING; BY HOLDER OF PERMIT.
   Every excavation in a street, alley, or public place shall be backfilled
promptly after completion of the work that required the excavation. No concrete
rubble or trash shall be used in backfilling. The material used shall be
thoroughly tamped and packed into place so that settling does not occur, and
the holder of the permit shall maintain the surface over the refilled
excavation in a smooth condition for a period of at least six months after
completion of the original backfilling.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-11 REMOVAL OF LEFTOVER MATERIALS; BACKFILLING; BY CITY; EXPENSE; CHARGE;
COLLECTION.
   If materials from an excavation that are not to be used in backfilling and
repair are not removed from the street, alley, or public place immediately; or
if the excavation is left open or unfinished for a period of more than 24 hours
after completion of the work that required the excavation; or if the work shall
have been improperly done; or should settling occur and the holder of the
permit fail to place the street, alley, or public places in a smooth condition
at any time during the six months’ period after completion of the original
backfilling, the city may do the work and charge the expense thereof to the
person to whom the permit was issued. If the work was in connection with the
laying or repair of water service pipes, and is done by the city prior to
turning on the water, the expense shall be paid by the holder of the permit, or
by the consumer, before the water is turned on.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-12 EXCAVATIONS; PROSPECTIVE PAVING; NOTICE TO PERSONS AFFECTED;
RESTRICTIONS.
   Whenever a street or alley or a part thereof is to be put under contract for
paving or repaving, the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager,
shall notify the owners of real estate abutting such street or alley, and their
tenants or lessees, and also all gas, water, electric service, and telephone
companies, by publication or otherwise, of the intention of the city to pave,
and that all gas, water, sewer, and underground connections must be made prior
to the paving or repaving of such street or alley. Such notice shall be
published one time in a legal newspaper at least 20 days prior to the beginning
of the operation by the party having the work under construction, and shall
state at what date connection must be made and excavation completed. After
expiration of such period, permits for excavation will not be issued, nor will
excavation be allowed until after the completion of the pavement in such street
or alley, and the formal and final acceptance thereof by the proper officials
of the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-13 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB, AND SIDEWALK; PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to cut into any
paving, curb, or sidewalk for any purpose whatsoever, without first having
obtained a written permit from the City Manager therefor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-14 SAME; APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   Before any person, firm, or corporation shall obtain such permit, such
person, firm, or corporation shall inform the City Manager of the place where
such cutting is to be done, and it shall be the City Manager’s duty to cause an
inspection to be made of the proposed place of entry into such paving, curb, or
sidewalk.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-15 SAME; DEPOSIT; REQUIRED; CONDITIONS.
   Before any permit is issued by the City Manager, the applicant for such
permit shall deposit with the City Manager, or his or her designee, an amount
sufficient as estimated by the City Manager, or his or her designee, to cover
the cost of replacing such paving, curb, or sidewalk. Such deposit shall be
retained by the city for the purpose of replacing such paving, curb, or
sidewalk in case such work is done by the city. In case the City Manager, or
his or her designee, elects to require the applicant to replace such paving,
curb, or sidewalk, said deposit shall be retained by the city until said work
is completed to the satisfaction of said City Manager, or his or her designee.
§ 20-5-16 SAME; BOND; REQUIRED; CONDITIONS.
   In addition to making such deposit, the applicant shall, before any permit
is issued, execute a bond to the city, with good and sufficient surety or
sureties to be approved by the City Clerk in the sum of not less than $500
conditioned as follows: first, that the applicant, if requested by the City
Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, will promptly replace and repair
each and every place cut into any paving, curb, or sidewalk, under such rules
as may be prescribed by the City Manager, or his or her designee, in as good
condition as before the same was cut, and will promptly compensate the city for
all work done by the city in replacing or repairing any places cut into paving,
curbing, or sidewalks by such applicant. Second, that the applicant will obey
all ordinances of the city in doing such work, and will save the city harmless
from any damages which may occur as a result of either cutting or repairing
pavement, curb, or sidewalk.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-17 SAME; WORK; MANNER; BY WHOM DONE.
   When cutting into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party so cutting
to make the same in the manner, and under such rules and regulations as may be
prescribed by the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager. When such
party is ready to close such opening, such party shall inform the City Manager,
who shall cause the materials used and the work done in closing such opening to
be supervised and inspected. It shall be discretionary with the City Manager to
do such work and charge the cost thereof to the holder of the permit, or he or
she may consent to the work being done by the holder of the permit.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-18 RESERVED.
§ 20-5-19 CURB CUTS; REQUIREMENTS; RESTRICTIONS.
   Curb cuts for the passage of vehicles shall be not less than five inches in
thickness. No curb cut shall be less than 20 feet from the point of
intersection of the curb line with the curb line of an intersecting street, nor
closer than the point of curve of the curb radius. Not more than one curb cut
shall be provided for a private garage or driveway, or more than two curb cuts
for a public garage. The phrases “private garage” and “public garage” shall be
construed, for the purposes of this section, to have the meaning that they have
in Chapter 25 of this code.
§ 20-5-20 DRIVEWAYS; APRONS; OVER CURBS; CORNERS; PERMIT; BOND; SPECIFICATIONS.
   It hereby unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct or
cause to be constructed in the city any driveway or apron over the curb or
corner of the streets and avenues of the city without specific permission from
the City Manager, or his or her designee. Before any such permit shall be
issued, the applicant shall furnish good and sufficient bond in the sum of
1,000), to be approved by the City Clerk, to secure the city against any
damages that may arise from or accident that may be incident to the
construction of such driveway or apron. The City Manager shall have
discretionary power to issue or refuse a permit for such driveway or apron
structure, and may require, in lieu of such construction, the construction of
an open driveway of such shape and nature as shall seem to the City Manager to
be safe and proper.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-21 SAME; WHEN STREETS CURBED, GUTTERED, AND PAVED; OWNER; NOTICE TO;
COST; ASSESSMENT.
   On all streets to be hereafter curbed, guttered, and paved, it shall be the
duty of the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, to notify all
parties desiring driveways into their premises to furnish him or her with
information concerning the width and location of such driveway. The cost of all
such driveways in excess of the cost of the continuous gutter and curb shall be
charged against the lots or real estate so benefitted by their use when the
levy for such work is made.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-22 BUILDINGS; OTHER STRUCTURES; PROHIBITED; NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct, or
cause to be constructed, any building, fence, areaway, or other structure in,
on, or under any public street, alley, sidewalk, place, or ground, except as
provided in this chapter or in
Chapters 4,
18 and
23 of this code. Every building or structure constructed in violation of this
section shall constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-23 BUILDING MATERIALS; STORAGE; PERMIT; REQUIRED; ISSUED; WHEN.
   No building materials shall be placed on any public street, alley, or
sidewalk without a permit from the City Manager. The City Manager may give a
temporary permit for storage of building materials on a street, alley, or
sidewalk if adequate measures are taken for the unrestricted movement and
safety of persons and traffic.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2581, passed - -1980)
§ 20-5-24 HYDRANTS; FOUNTAINS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No hydrants, except public fire hydrants, and no fountains, except public
drinking fountains, shall be placed within the limits of any streets.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-25 REPEALED.
§ 20-5-26 REPEALED.
§ 20-5-27 REPEALED.
§ 20-5-28 TRAFFIC SIGNS; EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this article shall not be applicable to signs, sign boxes,
or signposts erected or installed for the direction and control of traffic by
order of officers of the city that have authority in that regard.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-29 REPEALED.
§ 20-5-30 REPEALED.
§ 20-5-31 BARBED WIRE FENCE; PROHIBITED; REMOVAL.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct or maintain, or cause to be
constructed or maintained, any barbed wire fence upon or along any public
street or alley in the city, or upon or along any boundary line of any such
street or alley, or in any manner next to any such street or alley, for any
purpose whatsoever. No person, firm, or corporation shall repair any such fence
constructed before the taking effect of Ordinance 1116. In case such fence
shall have been constructed before, and be in existence at, the time of the
taking effect of Ordinance 1116, the owner thereof shall not be responsible
therefor until notice to remove such fence has been given to him or her or it
in writing. Such notice shall direct that such fence be removed within five
days after such notice has been served, and such fence shall be so removed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-32 CURB; BUFFER BLOCK; IN ALLEY; RESTRICTIONS.
   A curb or buffer block may be constructed not more than nine inches beyond
the property line adjoining an alley.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-5-33 UNNECESSARY DELAY; PROHIBITED; DETERMINATION.
   Work on public streets and alleys shall not be delayed unnecessarily, as
determined by the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager.
(Ord. 2744, passed - -1982)
§ 20-5-34 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. The
imposition of a penalty for violation of this article shall not excuse a
violation of this article or permit it to continue. Any such violation shall be
remedied within a reasonable time, and each day that such violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. A prosecution shall not
prevent the enforcement of any of the provisions of this article by other
appropriate action.
ARTICLE 6: OBSTRUCTION; USE
Section
General Provisions
   
20-6-1   Use of right-of-way; permission required; obstructing; prohibited;
nuisance
   
20-6-2   Obstructions; police; observe; notice; complaint; duty
   
20-6-3   Parking; riding; driving on; injuring; defacing; prohibited
   
20-6-4   New pavement; barricaded; marked; driving on; prohibited
   
20-6-5   Wastewater; acids; chemicals; draining; standing; allowing; prohibited
   
20-6-6   Repairing motor vehicles; prohibited; exception
   
20-6-7   Ball; playing with; prohibited
   
20-6-8   Repealed
   
20-6-9   Repealed
   
20-6-10   Repealed
   
20-6-11   Advertising vehicles; restrictions
   
20-6-12   Violations; classification
Sidewalks
   
20-6-13   Obstructions; sidewalks; parking; permitting; unlawful; nuisance;
exceptions
   
20-6-14   Merchandise; restrictions
   
20-6-15   Other objects and materials
   
20-6-16   Vehicles; driving; riding on or to; restrictions
   
20-6-17   Spitting on; prohibited
   
20-6-18   Repealed
   
20-6-19   Flower barrels and pots
Snow, Ice, and Mud Removal from Sidewalks
   
20-6-20   Snow, ice, and mud; removal; nuisance
   
20-6-21   Notice to remove
   
20-6-22   Emergency
   
20-6-23   Repealed
   
20-6-24   Removal from adjacent property onto street; restricted
   
20-6-25   Obstruction of view and motor vehicles
Play Vehicles
   
20-6-26   Play vehicles; defined
   
20-6-27   On streets; prohibited
   
20-6-28   On sidewalks; right-of-way; presumption of negligence
   
20-6-29   Operation on certain sidewalks; prohibited
   
20-6-30   Penalties; surrender of play vehicle
Injurious Vehicles
   
20-6-31   Injurious vehicles, machinery, and structures; operation; routes of
travel; restrictions
   
20-6-32   Reserved
Moving Buildings
   
20-6-33   Buildings; moving; restrictions
   
20-6-34   Permit; required; application; bond
   
20-6-35   Public service poles and wires; removal
   
20-6-36   Reserved
Parades
   
20-6-37   Parades; definition
   
20-6-38   Permit; required
   
20-6-39   Permit; application; time
   
20-6-40   Permit; application; contents
   
20-6-41   Permit; standards for issuance
   
20-6-42   Permit; decision on application
   
20-6-43   Permit; denial
   
20-6-44   Permit; contents
   
20-6-45   Alternate permit
   
20-6-46   Permit; notice
   
20-6-47   Permittee; parade chairperson; duties
   
20-6-48   Permit; revocation
   
20-6-49   Permit; appeal
   
20-6-50   Public interference
Community and Business Promotion Events
   
20-6-51   Community and business promotion events
   
20-6-52   Allowable types
   
20-6-53   Restrictions; general
   
20-6-54   Restrictions; particular
   
20-6-55   Permit; required
   
20-6-56   Permit; application; time
   
20-6-57   Permit; application; contents
   
20-6-58   Permit; insurance; bond
   
20-6-59   Permit; contents
   
20-6-60   Alternate permit
   
20-6-61   Permit; notice
   
20-6-62   Permittee; compliance
   
20-6-63   Permit; revocation
   
20-6-64   Public interference; prohibited
   
20-6-65
 – 20-6-69   Reserved
   
20-6-70   Sale of merchandise on public sidewalks
   
20-6-71   Permit; application; time; fee
   
20-6-72   Permit; application; contents
   
20-6-73   Restrictions
   
20-6-74   Permit; insurance
   
20-6-75   Permit; contents
   
20-6-76   Permit; notice
   
20-6-77   Permittee; compliance
   
20-6-78   Permit; revocation
   
20-6-79   Neighborhood block party; definition
   
20-6-80   Permit; application; contents
   
20-6-81   Permit; standards for issuance
   
20-6-82   Permit; decision, and timing on application
   
20-6-83   Alternate permit
   
20-6-84   Permit application authority
   
20-6-85   Permit; revocation
   
20-6-86   Permit; appeal
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 20-6-1 USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY; PERMISSION REQUIRED; OBSTRUCTING; PROHIBITED;
NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use city right-
of-way, or to place in or upon any right-of-way, street, alley, sidewalk, or
municipal parking lot of the city any substance or thing obstructing or
encroaching upon such right-of-way, street, alley, or sidewalk, or to obstruct
the same in any manner whatsoever, without first obtaining permission to do so.
An application for such permit, along with any fee required under this code,
shall be delivered to the Planning and Development Department. A Planning and
Development Official will review the application, as well as the rules and
regulations governing the use of any right-of-way, street, alley, sidewalk, or
municipal parking lot and, if it appears to the Planning and Development
Official that the proposed use complies with all rules and regulations, and
that the public safety, convenience, and welfare will not be adversely
affected, the Planning and Development Official will issue a permit to the
applicant. The permit shall be valid for one calendar year, beginning on
January 1 of each year and expiring on December 31 of each year. Any permit
issued by the Planning and Development Official shall be subject to the
condition that the permit may be revoked at any time the Official finds that
public safety, convenience, and welfare would be enhanced by the revocation of
such permit. If the Planning and Development Official grants the application,
the applicant shall be given a written permit signed by the Planning and
Development Official. Such permit shall state in writing that it may be revoked
at any time the Planning and Development Official finds that public safety,
convenience, and welfare will be enhanced by the revocation of the permit. If
the Official has imposed conditions on the granting of the permit, such
conditions shall be specified in the permit. Any use of the city right-of-way
or any obstruction or encroachment upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or
municipal parking lot in the city without having obtained a permit as provided
in this section or as otherwise provided in this chapter shall be deemed a
nuisance.
(Ord. 4129, passed - -2014)
§ 20-6-2 OBSTRUCTIONS; POLICE; OBSERVE; NOTICE; COMPLAINT; DUTY.
   The police shall notice all obstructions to streets or sidewalks within
their respective beats, and, shall forthwith notify the person, firm, or
corporation causing such obstruction to comply at once with the provisions of
this chapter relating thereto. If such person, firm, or corporation shall
refuse or neglect to comply with such provisions for a period of 24 hours after
such notice is given, the police officer report the matter to the City Attorney
or one of his or her deputies.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-3 PARKING; RIDING; DRIVING ON; INJURING; DEFACING; PROHIBITED.
   When the area between the lot line and curb line has been improved and
cultivated with grass, shrubbery, or flowers, it shall be unlawful for any
person to drive or ride any vehicle upon the same, or in any manner to injure
or deface such lawn, shrubbery, or flowers; and it shall be unlawful for any
person in any manner to injure or deface any retaining wall thereon.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-4 NEW PAVEMENT; BARRICADED; MARKED; DRIVING ON; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride or drive any vehicle or animal over or across any
pavement newly laid or repaired across, or around which there has been placed a
barrier, or at or near which there is a person or sign warning persons against
riding or driving over such pavement.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-5 WASTEWATER; ACIDS; CHEMICALS; DRAINING; STANDING; ALLOWING;
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person conducting or engaging in carrying on
any hotel, café, eating house, boarding house, butcher shop, bakery, laundry,
soft drink, drugstore, grocery store, or of any other business in the city to
allow, suffer, or permit any dish water, wash water, acid, battery water, or
other liquid chemical to escape and run upon any street or alley, or to stand
or percolate on any street, alley, or sidewalk, or on any place adjacent to any
street, alley, or sidewalk in the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-6 REPAIRING MOTOR VEHICLES, PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle on the public
street, sidewalks, or alleys of the city, except in case of breakdown or other
emergency requiring such adjustment or repair.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-7 BALL; PLAYING WITH; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in throwing, tossing, or in
any manner playing with or at ball upon any street or alley within the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-8 REPEALED.
§ 20-6-9 REPEALED.
§ 20-6-10 REPEALED.
§ 20-6-11 ADVERTISING VEHICLES; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit any advertising
vehicle owned by him or her or under his or her control to be operated, placed,
or remain in any street or alley in the city. Provided, business notices may be
placed upon ordinary business vehicles so long as such business vehicles are
engaged in the usual business or regular work of the owner or person in control
thereof, and are not used merely or primarily for advertisement.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-12 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. Where
the violation constitutes a nuisance, each day of default after notice in
writing by the Police Chief to such person, firm, or corporation to remove or
abate such nuisance shall constitute a separate offense.
SIDEWALKS
§ 20-6-13 OBSTRUCTIONS; SIDEWALKS; PARKING; PERMITTING; UNLAWFUL; NUISANCE;
EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or the owner of any vacant
lot within the city to permit the obstruction of the public sidewalk or parking
contiguous to the lot, except as in this chapter otherwise provided. Any such
obstruction shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-14 MERCHANDISE; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place or leave
any goods, wares, or merchandise upon any sidewalk in the city, except that a
reasonable time shall be allowed within which to remove goods, wares, and
merchandise being received and shipped, and except as otherwise provided in
this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1929, passed - -1972)
§ 20-6-15 OTHER OBJECTS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall place or maintain or, having
placed or maintained, shall suffer to remain, on the right-of-way of any public
street, or in any alley, any vehicle, machinery, equipment, or structure, or
any part thereof, or any material, except pursuant to a permit issued by a
Planning and Development Official.
   (B)   Provided, this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Properly licensed motor vehicles operated or temporarily parked on
the traveled part of the street adjacent to the curb or, if there be no curb,
adjacent to the side of the street, or operated or temporarily parked in an
alley, or to trailers while attached to such a motor vehicle; or
      (2)   Improvements permitted under
Article 4 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2728, passed - -1982; Ord. 4129, passed - -2014)
§ 20-6-16 VEHICLES; DRIVING; RIDING ON OR TO; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or ride any automobile,
motorcycle, or other vehicle upon or access any sidewalk or within any sidewalk
space, except at a permanent or temporary driveway; provided, this section
shall not apply to vehicles (except automobiles and motorcycles) equipped with
a snow-removal blade while being operated on a sidewalk for purposes of removal
of snow from the sidewalk; or to vehicles being operated by firefighters of the
city or other governmental entities in the performance of their functions or
duties. Any vehicle permitted to be operated on a sidewalk for the purpose
specified above shall, while traveling on a public street or alley to the
sidewalk, travel only on that part of the street or alley dedicated to use by
motor vehicles, and only by the most direct route.
(Ord. 3101, passed - -1988)
§ 20-6-17 SPITTING ON; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate on any sidewalk
in the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-18 REPEALED.
§ 20-6-19 FLOWER BARRELS AND POTS.
   (A)   Barrels and pots for the display of flowers or flowering plants may be
set on sidewalks in the street right-of-way in a non-residential area during
the plant-growing season. All barrels and pots placed pursuant to this section
shall:
      (1)   Be constructed of durable material;
      (2)   Be securely attached if hung from a pole; and
      (3)   Not be hung or placed so as to come in contact with cars parked in
designated parking areas or interfere with pedestrians using sidewalks or
persons getting in or out of parked vehicles.
   (B)   All barrels and pots placed where sidewalks exist shall be placed in
the portion of the sidewalk nearest to the street and shall be placed so at
least three feet or two-thirds of the width of the sidewalk, whichever is
greater, remains unobstructed. No portion of a barrel, pot, or plant located
within 20 feet of a street intersection or within ten feet of an alley
intersection shall be higher than three feet over that portion of the street
nearest the barrel, pot, or plant. This shall not prohibit trees within this
restricted area where the branches and/or leaves are at least six feet above
the portion of the street nearest the tree.
   (C)   All barrels and pots shall be subject to approval by the City Manager,
or the designee of the City Manager, as being in compliance with the
requirements of this section and not creating a hazard to pedestrians and
vehicles.
(Ord. 3134, passed - -1989)
SNOW, ICE, AND MUD REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS
§ 20-6-20 SNOW, ICE, AND MUD; REMOVAL; NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or the owner of any vacant
lot within the city to suffer or permit snow, sleet, ice, mud, slush, or other
substance to accumulate or remain on the sidewalks contiguous to the lot, or to
permit any hardened trodden snow, sleet, ice, mud, slush, or other substance to
remain upon such sidewalk. Such sidewalk shall be cleaned and cleared from such
substances by 12:00 p.m. the day following the end of any snowfall. Any snow,
sleet, ice, mud, slush, or other substance which remains on a sidewalk contrary
to the provisions of this section is declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2713, passed - -1982; Ord. 4172, passed - -2015)
§ 20-6-21 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   If snow, sleet, ice, or mud remains on any sidewalk in violation of
this chapter, the City Manager or his or her designee may give notice to remove
such snow, sleet, ice, or mud to the owner of the property contiguous to such
sidewalk. Notice may be given either by personal service or by posting the
notice on the property contiguous to the sidewalk. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   An order to remove the snow, sleet, ice, or mud within a stated
time;
      (2)   A statement that the party may request a hearing before the City
Manager within three days after receiving the notice;
      (3)   The address of the property contiguous to the sidewalk where the
snow, sleet, ice, or mud exists; and
      (4)   A statement that if the snow, sleet, ice, or mud is not removed as
directed, and no request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the
city may cause the removal of the snow, sleet, ice, or mud and assess the cost
thereof against such property contiguous to such sidewalk, collect such costs
in a civil action, or exercise any other remedy available at law to recover
such costs.
   (B)   Within three days after receipt of such notice, if the owner or
occupant of the land does not request a hearing with the City Manager or fails
to comply with the order to remove the snow, sleet, ice, or mud, the City
Manager or his or her designee may cause the city to remove the snow, sleet,
ice, or mud. Within three days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant may make a written request for a hearing before the City Manager. Such
a request shall suspend the notice to remove unless an emergency was declared
as provided in this chapter. At such hearing, the City Manager may cause the
city to remove the snow, sleet, ice, or mud within such time as the City
Manager shall determine. If the snow, sleet, ice, or mud is not removed within
the time specified by the City Manager, the City Manager or his or her designee
may cause the city to remove the snow, sleet, ice, or mud. The costs and
expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months
after such work is done, the city may either levy and assess the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so contiguous to such
sidewalk in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed; or recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of removing
the snow, sleet, ice, or mud. The remedies provided in this section shall be
cumulative with any other remedy provided in this municipal code, or otherwise
available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 3959, passed - -2008)
§ 20-6-22 EMERGENCY.
   If the City Manager or his or her designee shall determine that an
accumulation of snow, sleet, ice, or mud is so unsafe, or is unsafe in a
respect such that a delay in removal thereof would result in undue danger or
other hazard to persons or property, he or she may declare in writing that
there exists an emergency requiring that the snow, sleet, ice, or mud be
removed immediately and order the appropriate city employees to remove the
snow, sleet, ice, or mud. The costs and expenses of such removal may be
assessed as provided in this chapter. The remedy provided in this section shall
be cumulative with any other remedy provided in this municipal code, or
otherwise available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 3959, passed - -2008; Ord. 3987, passed - -2009)
§ 20-6-23 REPEALED.
§ 20-6-24 REMOVAL FROM ADJACENT PROPERTY ONTO STREET; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, business, or corporation to
deposit or to permit the deposit of snow, sleet, ice, or mud which has
accumulated on non-city owned property onto a city street or alley. Provided,
this restriction shall not apply to the deposit on city streets or alleys of
snow, sleet, ice, or mud which accumulated by act of God on curb sidewalks as
provided for in
Article 3 of this chapter; or a property which is used exclusively as a one or
two-family dwelling as defined in
Chapter 25, Article 22 of this code.
(Ord. 3254, passed - -1992)
§ 20-6-25 OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW AND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Snow shall not be moved or piled on any location, upon private property,
which obstructs the view of drivers of motor vehicles at intersections within
the corporate limits of the city. Property owners or residents who have caused
snow to be piled in such a manner as to obstruct the view of motor vehicle
drivers at intersections as described above shall be contacted to remove the
snow and should they fail to comply within 24 hours from the date of said
request being made, the snow shall be removed by the city, at the property
owner’s expense.
PLAY VEHICLES
§ 20-6-26 PLAY VEHICLES; DEFINED.
   The term PLAY VEHICLE shall include wagons, sleds, ice skates, scooters
which are not motorized, tricycles, bicycles with both wheels smaller than
those as defined in
Chapter 3, Article 1 of this code, toy cars, or other toy vehicles. The term
shall not include skates, motorized skateboards, or electric personal assistive
mobility devices as defined in
Chapter 3 of this code, nor shall it include wheelchairs or similar devices
required for the mobility of a disabled person.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991; Ord. 4181, passed - -2016)
§ 20-6-27 ON STREETS; PROHIBITED.
   Play vehicles shall not be operated on the streets of the city except for
the purpose of crossing a street within a crosswalk or designated street
crossing area. The rules relating to pedestrians crossing streets shall apply
to persons crossing on a play vehicle.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 20-6-28 ON SIDEWALKS; RIGHT-OF-WAY; PRESUMPTION OF NEGLIGENCE.
   Any person operating a play vehicle upon a public sidewalk shall yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrians and, when involved in a collision with a
pedestrian, shall be rebuttably presumed to have been negligent.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 20-6-29 OPERATION ON CERTAIN SIDEWALKS; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a play vehicle on a public sidewalk or city-owned or
operated parking lot situated in whole or in part within the area bounded by
Railway Street on the south, 20th Street on the north, 2nd Avenue on the east
and Avenue B on the west. Provided, this shall not prevent the pushing or
pulling of a play vehicle or stroller within this area as long as the play
vehicle or stroller is in the direct control of a person who is walking.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
§ 20-6-30 PENALTIES; SURRENDER OF PLAY VEHICLE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
20-6-27 and
20-6-29 of this subchapter, in addition to any other penalty that may be
imposed by this municipal code, may be ordered to surrender his or her play
vehicle to the Police Chief for impounding for a period of not to exceed six
months. Provided, in the case of an apparent violation of any provision of the
article by a person under 12 years of age who has neither been convicted nor
received a warning of a violation of any provision of this chapter during the
preceding 12 months, a written warning shall be issued and a copy shall be
mailed to the parents or guardians of the apparent violator at their last known
address.
(Ord. 3202, passed - -1991)
INJURIOUS VEHICLES
§ 20-6-31 INJURIOUS VEHICLES, MACHINERY, AND STRUCTURES; OPERATION; ROUTES OF
TRAVEL; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move or operate
any steam engine, gas or kerosene tractor, or road roller across any curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing in any unpaved street
within the city without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. It shall be unlawful to run, drive,
move, operate, or convey over or across or upon any paved street in the city
any truck, wagon, vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp
wheels that bear upon such pavement, or with wheels having cutting edges or
with wheels having lugs or any protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend
beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage
the curb, gutter, or pavement, or any vehicle, tractor, machine, or implement
of such weight or proportions, or carrying any load that will cut, mar, indent,
or otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter, or curb within the city.
Where heavy vehicles, structures, or machines move along paved or unpaved
streets of the city, the Police Chief is hereby authorized and empowered to
choose the route over which the moving of such vehicles, structures, or
machines will be permitted or allowed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-32 RESERVED.
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 20-6-33 BUILDINGS; MOVING; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move any building upon, along, or
across any street or alley within the city, except as provided in this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-34 PERMIT; REQUIRED; APPLICATION; BOND.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to move any building upon, along,
or across any street or alley within the city shall first procure from the City
Clerk a permit to do so. The application for such permit shall be in writing,
and shall state the location of the building to be moved, the proposed route of
moving, and the period within which the moving is to occur. Before granting the
permit, the City Clerk shall require a good and sufficient bond, in the form of
cash or otherwise, in an amount to be fixed by the City Clerk and conditioned
that the holder of the permit shall pay any and all damages that may be
sustained to the paving, street crossing, or otherwise to the city or to
individuals or corporations. No license or general permit shall be given to
anyone to move buildings at will or generally within the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-35 PUBLIC SERVICE POLES, WIRES; REMOVAL.
   Whenever it shall be necessary for any licensed house mover in moving a
building to interfere with any telephone, telegraph, or electric power poles or
wires, the company or companies owning, using, or operating such poles or
wires, shall, upon such notice as is provided in their respective franchises,
or, if no provision for notice is made therein, then upon 24 hours’ notice, be
present and assist, or, if necessary, move such poles and wires at their own
expense, unless it is otherwise provided in their said franchise. The notice
herein provided for shall be given to such company or companies by the City
Manager or the designee of the City Manager.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 20-6-36 RESERVED.
PARADES
§ 20-6-37 PARADES; DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this article, the word PARADE shall mean and include any
parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or procession of any kind,
or any similar display, in or upon any street, park, or other public place in
the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-38 PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall form, start, engage in, participate in, or aid any
parade, unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the Police Chief
as provided in this article.
   (B)   Provided, this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; and
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-39 PERMIT; APPLICATION; TIME.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Police Chief on forms provided by such officer. The application shall be
filed not less than three days nor more than 30 days before the date on which
it is proposed to conduct the parade; provided, the Police Chief, where good
cause is shown therefor, shall have the authority to consider an application
which has been filed less than three days before the date such parade is
proposed to be conducted. The words “three days” and “two days” shall not
include Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-40 PERMIT; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth on a form to be
furnished by the Police Chief:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such parade; the type of animals, and description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when such parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of such
parade; and
      (12)   Any additional information which the Police Chief shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
issue.
   (B)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for, any
person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file with
the Police Chief a communication in writing from the person proposing to hold
the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his or her
behalf.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-41 PERMIT; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder when,
from a consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the city;
      (3)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions
of the city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and
areas contiguous thereto;
      (4)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas;
      (5)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      (6)   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
      (7)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
and
      (8)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, goods, or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
   (B)   Provided, further, parades normally shall be permitted only upon the
following route: on Broadway Avenue from West 24th Street to East 15th Street,
on East 15th Street to 1st Avenue, and on 1st Avenue from East 15th Street to
East 23rd Street, unless the Police Chief, for good cause, shall permit a
parade to proceed in the opposite direction over such route, or to proceed over
a different route.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-42 PERMIT; DECISION ON APPLICATION.
   The Police Chief shall act upon the application for a parade permit within
two days after the filing thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-43 PERMIT; DENIAL.
   If the Police Chief denies the application, he or she shall mail or deliver
to the applicant, on the date of the denial, a notice in writing of the denial,
stating the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-44 PERMIT; CONTENTS.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as the Police Chief shall find necessary to the
enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-45 ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   The Police Chief, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be
empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over
a route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall, within 24 hours after notice of the action of
the Police Chief, file a written notice of acceptance with the Police Chief. An
alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and shall have
the effect of a parade permit under this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-46 PERMIT; NOTICE.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a parade permit, the Police Chief shall
send a copy to the City Manager, Fire Chief, and Street Superintendent.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2434, passed - -1978)
§ 20-6-47 PERMITTEE; PARADE CHAIRPERSON; DUTIES.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws, including applicable provisions of this municipal
code. The parade chairperson or other person heading or leading such activity
shall carry the parade permit upon his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-48 PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   The Police Chief shall have authority to revoke a parade permit if he or she
finds that the standards for issuance set forth in this article will not, or
probably will not, be met notwithstanding the exercise of reasonable diligence
on the part of the Police Department. The Police Chief, on the date of
revocation of a permit, shall mail or deliver to the permittee a notice in
writing of the revocation, stating the reason therefor.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-49 PERMIT; APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial or revocation
of a parade permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken by filing a
notice thereof with the City Clerk within ten days after the mailing or
delivery of the notice of denial or revocation. The City Council shall act upon
the appeal within ten days after its receipt.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
§ 20-6-50 PUBLIC INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, or impede, or interfere with
any parade or parade assembly, or with any person, vehicle, or animal
participating or used in a parade. No operator of any vehicle shall drive
between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or
persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade. The Police
Chief shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the operation or parking of vehicles along a street or highway or part
thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. The Police Chief shall
post signs to such effect, or cause police officers to direct traffic at such
locations, and it shall be unlawful for any person to operate or to park or
leave unattended any vehicle in violation of such sign or directions given by
such officers.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1756, passed - -1969)
COMMUNITY AND BUSINESS PROMOTION EVENTS
§ 20-6-51 COMMUNITY AND BUSINESS PROMOTION EVENTS.
   Public streets, sidewalks, and municipal parking lots in a business area of
the city may be used temporarily for the purpose of conducting thereon an
organized community or business event of a type referred to in this article,
which is under the general supervision of an organization having its principal
office within the city and holding a permit therefor issued by the City Clerk
pursuant to specific authorization of the City Council, in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 3437, passed - -1995)
§ 20-6-52 ALLOWABLE TYPES.
   The types of community or business events which may be authorized by the
City Council to be conducted on a public street or sidewalk in a business area
of the city are:
   (A)   Sidewalk bazaar, which means the display and sale at retail of
merchandise on public sidewalks abutting premises on or in which the
merchandise is sold or offered for sale by the person or firm by which the
merchandise is displayed and sold on such sidewalks, as an incident to an
organized community event conducted as provided in this article;
   (B)   Carnivals, including rides and other types of amusement park equipment
and activities, which may be placed or conducted on that part of a public
street improved for travel or parking of motor vehicles;
   (C)   Community festival, which may include a sidewalk bazaar, carnival, and
art show;
   (D)   Art show, which may include the sale of works exhibited; and
   (E)   Business promotion events, which may include the demonstration of a
product or products to be offered for sale.
(Ord. 3437, passed - -1995)
§ 20-6-53 RESTRICTIONS; GENERAL.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct, or to participate in the conduct of, a
sidewalk bazaar or a carnival, community festival, or art show on a public
street otherwise than in accordance with the terms of this article.
(Ord. 2664, passed - -1981)
§ 20-6-54 RESTRICTIONS; PARTICULAR.
   (A)   No sidewalk bazaar or carnival, community festival, or art show shall
be conducted for a period in excess of five calendar days, and unless, as
determined by the City Council as provided in this article:
      (1)   Such activities will not substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of pedestrian traffic on any sidewalk, or across any street;
      (2)   The activities will not require the diversion of so great a number
of police officers of the city to properly police them and the areas contiguous
thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the city;
      (3)   The concentration of persons, equipment, vehicles, and merchandise
will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or
ambulance service to, the area, contiguous areas, or other areas of the city;
and
      (4)   The activities are not reasonably likely to cause injury to persons
or property, or to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance.
   (B)   In addition, no public sidewalk, or any part thereof, shall be
obstructed in preparation for such activities prior to the calendar day on
which the activities are to commence, and no street bazaar, community festival,
or art show shall be conducted within parts of a public sidewalk which the City
Manager, for the purpose of securing orderly movement of pedestrian traffic and
the public safety and convenience, shall order to remain unobstructed.
(Ord. 2664, passed - -1981)
§ 20-6-55 PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   No sidewalk bazaar or carnival, community festival, or art show on a public
street shall be conducted, nor shall any person, firm, association, or
organization engage in the conduct of any such activities, unless a permit
therefor shall have been obtained as provided in this article.
(Ord. 2664, passed - -1981)
§ 20-6-56 PERMIT; APPLICATION; TIME.
   A sponsoring organization seeking a permit for one or more of the activities
described in §
20-6-52 of this subchapter shall file an application with the City Clerk on
forms provided by the City Clerk. The application shall be filed not less than
14 days nor more than one year before the date that the organization proposes
to commence the activities, unless the City Council determines, for good cause
shown, to consider an application filed outside of this time period. An
application may include a request for a permit for the conduct of more than one
community or business event. All permits shall be subject to approval by the
City Council. The applicant shall pay the fee described in Article 6, Chapter 6
of this code.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
§ 20-6-57 PERMIT; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   The application for a permit for one or more of the activities described in
§
20-6-52 of this subchapter shall include:
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the sponsoring
organization, and if one or more of the activities will be conducted in
conjunction with another organization, the name, address, and telephone number
of the other organization(s);
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be the
chairperson responsible for the conduct of the activities;
   (C)   The date(s) when the activities are to be conducted;
   (D)   The location(s) where the activities will be conducted;
   (E)   A general description of the type(s) of activities which will be
conducted on all dates applied for; and
   (F)   Any additional information as the City Council shall find reasonably
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should issue.
(Ord. 3134, passed - -1989)
§ 20-6-58 PERMIT; INSURANCE; BOND.
   (A)   No permit to conduct:
      (1)   A sidewalk bazaar, community festival, or business promotion event
on a public street, public sidewalk, or public parking lot shall issue until
the applicant shall furnish to the City Clerk written evidence that a public
liability insurance policy in amounts of not less than $200,000 for one person,
$500,000 for any one accident, and $50,000 for injuries to property, and
including as a beneficiary, the city, shall be in force during, and for 24
hours before and after, the bazaar or festival; and
      (2)   A carnival on a public street shall issue until the applicant shall
furnish to the City Clerk written evidence that a public liability insurance
policy in amounts of not less than $800,000 for one person, $2,000,000 for any
one accident, and $200,000 for injuries to property; including as a
beneficiary, the city; and containing such other provisions as the City Council
may prescribe, shall be in force during, and for 24 hours before and after, the
carnival.
   (B)   In addition, no permit to conduct a sidewalk bazaar, community
festival, or business promotion event or a carnival on a public street,
sidewalk, or parking lot shall issue until the applicant shall deposit with the
City Clerk a surety bond to the city, to be approved by the City Clerk, in the
sum of $2,500, or in lieu thereof, cash in that amount, conditioned that no
damage will be done to streets or to sewer, water, electrical, or other
equipment or property of the city, and that no dirt, paper, litter, or other
debris will be permitted to remain upon the sidewalk, streets, or alleys or any
adjacent private property.
(Ord. 3437, passed - -1995)
§ 20-6-59 PERMIT; CONTENTS.
   Each permit shall state the following:
   (A)   The allowable date(s) and place(s) of the activity described in §
20-6-52 of this subchapter, including, but not limited to, the public places
that will be obstructed and the parts which will remain unobstructed; and
   (B)   Such other information as the City Manager shall determine to be
necessary or desirable in order to effect compliance with this article.
(Ord. 3437, passed - -1995)
§ 20-6-60 ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   The City Council, upon denying an application for a permit for one or more
of the activities described in §
20-6-52 of this subchapter, may authorize the conduct of the activity on a
date, at a time or place, or on other conditions different from those specified
in the application. An alternate permit for the activity permit shall conform
to the requirements for, and shall have the effect of, a permit issued under
preceding sections of this article.
(Ord. 2664, passed - -1981)
§ 20-6-61 PERMIT; NOTICE.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a permit for an activity described in §
20-6-52 of this subchapter, the City Clerk shall so inform the Police Chief and
the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 2664, passed - -1981)
§ 20-6-62 PERMITTEE; COMPLIANCE.
   An organization to which a permit has been issued for an activity referred
to in §
20-6-52 of this subchapter, and all employees, agents, and representatives
thereof, shall comply with all permit directions and conditions and with all
applicable laws and applicable provisions of the municipal code.
(Ord. 2664, passed - -1981)
§ 20-6-63 PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   The City Council may revoke a permit for an activity referred to in §
20-6-52 of this subchapter if it finds that the standards for issuance set
forth in this article will not, or probably will not, be substantially met, or
that the permittee has willfully or negligently failed to comply with the
requirements of this article in any substantial respect. The City Clerk, within
24 hours after revocation of a permit, shall deliver or mail to the permittee a
notice in writing of the revocation, stating the reason therefor.
(Ord. 2664, passed - -1981)
§ 20-6-64 PUBLIC INTERFERENCE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person unreasonably to hamper, obstruct, or
impede, or interfere with any authorized sidewalk bazaar or carnival, community
festival, or art show on a public street, or with equipment, materials, or
merchandise used or present in connection with the authorized activity, or with
any person conducting or participating in the activity in a lawful manner.
(Ord. 2664, passed - -1981)
§§ 20-6-65 – 20-6-69 RESERVED.
§ 20-6-70 SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   Public sidewalks in a business area of the city may be used temporarily for
the display and sale of merchandise. Such display and sale may occur only on
the portion of the public sidewalk abutting the premises on or in which the
merchandise is ordinarily displayed and sold. No person shall engage in this
activity unless a permit therefor shall have been obtained as provided in this
article.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
§ 20-6-71 PERMIT; APPLICATION; TIME; FEE.
   Any person seeking a permit to sell for the sale of merchandise on the
public sidewalk shall file an application with the Planning and Building
Official on forms provided by the Official. The application shall be filed not
less than three days before the date that the applicant proposes to commence
the sale. The applicant shall pay the fee described in
Article 6, Chapter 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
§ 20-6-72 PERMIT; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   The application for a permit for the sale of merchandise on the public
sidewalk shall include:
   (A)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
responsible for the conduct of the sale;
   (C)   The date(s) when the sale is to be conducted;
   (D)   The location(s) where the sale will be conducted; and
   (E)   Any additional information as the Planning and Building Official shall
find reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
issue.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
§ 20-6-73 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No permit for the sale of merchandise on the public sidewalk shall be
granted unless the Planning and Building Official determines:
      (1)   Such sale will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly
movement of pedestrian traffic on any sidewalk, or across any street;
      (2)   The sale will not require the diversion of so great a number of
police officers of the city to properly police it and the areas contiguous
thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the city;
      (3)   The concentration of persons, equipment, vehicles, and merchandise
will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection of, or
ambulance service to, the area, contiguous areas, or other areas of the city;
and
      (4)   The sale is not reasonably likely to cause injury to persons or
property, or to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance.
   (B)   No public sidewalk, or any part thereof, shall be obstructed in
preparation for such activities prior to the calendar day on which the
activities are to commence, and no sale shall be conducted on the parts of a
public sidewalk which the Planning and Building Official, for the purpose of
securing orderly movement of pedestrian traffic and the public safety and
convenience, shall order to remain unobstructed.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for allowing the sale of merchandise on the
public sidewalk for more than seven consecutive days. No applicant will be
issued one or more permits authorizing the sale of merchandise on the public
sidewalk for more than 14 consecutive days.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
§ 20-6-74 PERMIT; INSURANCE.
   No permit to conduct the sale of merchandise on the public sidewalk shall
issue until the applicant shall furnish to the Planning and Building Official
written evidence that a public liability insurance policy in amounts of not
less than $200,000 for one person, $500,000 for any one accident, and $50,000
for injuries to property, and including as an additional insured, the city,
shall be in force during, and for 24 hours before and after, the period during
which the merchandise is to be sold.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
§ 20-6-75 PERMIT; CONTENTS.
   Each permit shall state the following:
   (A)   The allowable dates, places that merchandise may be sold on the public
sidewalk including, but not limited to, the portions of the sidewalk that will
be obstructed and the portions that will remain unobstructed; and
   (B)   Any other information that the Planning and Building Official shall
determine to be necessary or desirable in order to effect compliance with this
article.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
§ 20-6-76 PERMIT; NOTICE.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a permit for the sale of merchandise on the
public sidewalk, the Planning and Building Official shall so inform the Police
Chief and the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
§ 20-6-77 PERMITTEE; COMPLIANCE.
   Any applicant to which a permit has been issued for the sale of merchandise
on the public sidewalk, and all employees, agents, and representatives of such
applicant, shall comply with all permit directions and conditions and with all
applicable laws and applicable provisions of this code.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
§ 20-6-78 PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   The Planning and Building Official may revoke a permit for the sale of
merchandise on the public sidewalk if he or she finds standards for issuance
set forth in this article will not, or probably will not, be substantially met,
or that the permittee has willfully and negligently failed to comply with
requirements of this article in any substantial respect. The Planning and
Building Official, within 24 hours after the revocation of the permit, shall
deliver or mail to the permittee notice in writing of the revocation stating
the reasons therefor.
(Ord. 3520, passed - -1997)
NEIGHBORHOOD BLOCK PARTY
§ 20-6-79 NEIGHBORHOOD BLOCK PARTY; DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the words NEIGHBORHOOD BLOCK PARTY
shall mean and include any event open to a specific, defined neighborhood or
area where no admission fee is charged for attendance; where alcoholic
beverages are not sold; where a city street is not closed more than six hours;
where the use of kybos/portapotties is not necessary; and where no other use of
right-of- way permit is needed.
   (B)   Any organization, private or public, or individual desiring to
exclusively use a street or part thereof for a neighborhood block party must
complete a block party application and submit the same to the Police Department
at least 30 days prior to the event. The application must include a map of the
specific area to be used and blocked off and shall, unless otherwise directed
by the Police Department, be from cross section to cross section so that no
traffic can turn onto the closed street.
§ 20-6-80 PERMIT; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   The application for a neighborhood block party shall set forth on a form to
be furnished by the Police Chief or the Chief’s designee:
   (A)   The name, address, telephone number, and email address of the person
or persons seeking to conduct the neighborhood block party;
   (B)   The date and time of the neighborhood block party; and
   (C)   The location of the neighborhood block party and which street or
streets are requested to be used.
§ 20-6-81 PERMIT; STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The Police Chief or the Chief’s designee shall issue a permit as provided
for hereunder when, from a consideration of the application and from such other
information as otherwise obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   All the addresses within the block party perimeter/boundary and all
addresses affected by the neighborhood block party have been informed about the
block party and have signed an event notification sheet;
   (B)   Street closure requires the approval of the Police Chief or the
Chief’s designee. MUTCD approved signs, barricades, cones, and the like shall
be used for all street closures and must be obtained from the Parks Department
of the city. If the Parks Department of the city is unable to supply the
approved signs, barricades, cones, and the like, because of other uses or
because of other neighborhood block parties, then the Police Chief or the
Chief’s designee shall deny the applied for permit for that date;
   (C)   Neighborhood block parties shall only be approved on local residential
streets. Arterials, collectors, emergency snow routes, or other streets
necessary for traffic safety cannot be blocked;
   (D)   Emergency vehicle access must be maintained at all times. Participants
in the neighborhood block party shall not park cars or place other
obstructions, including fireworks, which prevent emergency vehicle access;
   (E)   On-street parking shall not block driveways, fire hydrants, or travel
lanes at any time;
   (F)   If legal fireworks are used in the neighborhood block party, they must
comply with all ordinance and code requirements of the city;
   (G)   No open fires shall be allowed. Fires may be used for cooking only and
must be screened. Smoke must be minimalized so as not to be deemed a nuisance;
if deemed a nuisance, the fire shall be extinguished;
   (H)   Amplified music shall not be permitted unless a noise permit is
obtained pursuant to the municipal code. Applicants must contact the City Clerk
for a noise permit;
   (I)   Tents and canopies shall not be allowed on public property, streets,
or right-of-way;
   (J)   Alcoholic beverages may be consumed on private property only.
Alcoholic beverages cannot be sold at the neighborhood block party;
   (K)   Block parties shall end at 10:00 p.m. on weekdays and at 12:01 a.m. on
the weekends and holidays;
   (L)   Traffic barricades shall be removed and all party refuse, materials,
and garbage shall be cleaned from the streets, sidewalks, and front yards
within one hour of the end of the party. If the city is required to clean any
neighborhood block party area, the applicant or applicants shall be charged a
$250 cleaning fee;
   (M)   No activity shall be conducted that conflicts with federal, state,
county, and/or city ordinances or regulations;
   (N)   Applicants agree that the city and its official representatives shall
not be held responsible for any and all claims or losses, which may occur as a
result of the neighborhood block party;
   (O)   The city will evaluate the conformance to these standards, which may
affect future applications for a neighborhood block party at any applied for
location;
   (P)   The issued neighborhood block party permit shall be available on-site
upon demand from any city official, police officer, or firefighter. Failure to
do so shall terminate and revoke any permit for a neighborhood block party
immediately; and
   (Q)   The city has the right to revoke the permit for any neighborhood block
party if it is determined that the neighborhood block party is detrimental to
public morals or public welfare.
§ 20-6-82 PERMIT; DECISION AND TIMING ON APPLICATION.
   The Police Chief or the Chief’s designee shall act upon an application
within five working days after the filing thereof. Applications must be
submitted to the Police Department a minimum of 30 days in advance of the
neighborhood block party. If the Police Chief or the Chief’s designee
disapproves the application, he or she shall mail one of the applicants within
five days after the date upon which the application was filed, a notice of the
denial, stating the reason for the denial of the permit. Such notice shall be
mailed to an applicant at his or her address given in the application.
§ 20-6-83 ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   The Police Chief or the Chief’s designee, in denying an application for a
neighborhood block party permit, may authorize the neighborhood block party on
a date, at a time, or at a location different from that named by the applicant,
and if the applicant desires to accept the proposed date, time, and location,
they shall notify the Police Department within two days after the notice of the
action of the Police Chief or the Chief’s designee. The permit applied for
shall conform to the other requirements of this chapter. The alternate dates
may arise depending upon the availability of MUTCD approved signs, barricades,
and cones used for street closures.
§ 20-6-84 PERMIT APPLICATION AUTHORITY.
   The Police Chief or the Chief’s designee shall have authority, in his or her
sole discretion, to consider any application for a permit to conduct a
neighborhood block party which is filed less than 30 days before the date such
neighborhood block party is proposed to be conducted. Immediately upon granting
the neighborhood block party permit, the Police Chief or the Chief’s designee
shall send a copy thereof to an applicant at the address listed in the
application and shall also send a copy to the Code Enforcement Officers and the
Parks Department.
§ 20-6-85 PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   The Police Chief or the Chief’s designee shall have authority to revoke a
neighborhood block party permit if he or she finds that the standards for
issuance set forth in this article will not, or probably will not, be met
notwithstanding the exercise of reasonable diligence on the part of the Police
Department. The Police Chief or the Chief’s designee, on the date of revocation
of a permit, shall mail or deliver the permittee a notice in writing of the
revocation stating the reasons therefor.
§ 20-6-86 PERMIT; APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial or revocation
of a neighborhood block party permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing a notice thereof with the City Clerk within ten days after the
mailing or delivery of the notice of denial or revocation. The City Council
shall act upon the appeal within ten days after its receipt.
ARTICLE 7: TREES
Section
Definitions
   
20-7-1   Definitions; generally
   
20-7-2   Department
   
20-7-3   Shrubs
   
20-7-4   Trees; large
   
20-7-5   Trees; medium
   
20-7-6   Trees; small
   
20-7-7   Trees; street
   
20-7-8   Trees; topping
   
20-7-9   Trees; pruning and trimming
   
20-7-10   Trees; drop crotch pruning
   
20-7-11   Parking strip
   
20-7-12   Curb-sidewalk
Street Trees
   
20-7-13   Species
   
20-7-14   Spacing
   
20-7-15   List
   
20-7-16   Shrubs; height
   
20-7-17   Distance from corner, hydrants, utility lines, building, and
driveways
   
20-7-18   Planting; permit required
   
20-7-19   Pruning and topping
   
20-7-20   Drop crotch pruning
   
20-7-21   Topping
   
20-7-22   Branches; obstruction of light and view; overhanging; pruning; unsafe
and injurious trees; removal; nuisance
   
20-7-23   Same; duty to prune and remove
Hazardous Trees
   
20-7-24   Hazardous trees; statement of policy; discretion conferred
   
20-7-25   Notice to abate and remove nuisance; City Manager or his or her
designee
   
20-7-26   Removal by city; assessment
   
20-7-27   Violations; penalty
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
20-7-28   Article; scope
   
20-7-29   Stumps; removal
   
20-7-30   Removal; obstruction of street during; permit; bond
   
20-7-31   Same; closure of street; permit; barricades; markers
   
20-7-32   Arborists; tree service; license; application; fees; insurance
   
20-7-33   Same; renewal
   
20-7-34   Tree; cutting down and injuring
   
20-7-35   Violations; penalties
DEFINITIONS
§ 20-7-1 DEFINITIONS; GENERALLY.
   Any of the terms defined in any subsequent section has the meaning which is
ascribed to the term in such section.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-2 DEPARTMENT.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-3 SHRUBS.
   SHRUBS. Bushes or other woody vegetation used in landscaping which by their
nature do not normally attain heights in excess of 20 feet.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-4 TREES; LARGE.
   LARGE TREES. Trees which by their nature normally attain heights in excess
of 45 feet at maturity.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-5 TREES; MEDIUM.
   MEDIUM TREES. Trees which by their nature normally attain heights of from 25
to 45 feet at maturity.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-6 TREES; SMALL.
   SMALL TREES. Trees which by their nature do not normally attain heights in
excess of 25 feet at maturity.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-7 TREES; STREET.
   STREET TREES. Unless otherwise provided by ordinance, all trees and shrubs
situated within the right-of-way of any public street of the city. A tree shall
be deemed to be so situated if the trunk, or any part thereof, is situated
within the right-of-way. A shrub shall be deemed to be so situated if any stem
thereof, at the level of emergence from the ground, is situated within the
right-of-way. Trees and shrubs which in the course of normal growth will become
so situated shall be deemed to be so situated at the time of planting.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-8 TREES; TOPPING.
   TOPPING. Reducing the overall height of a tree by improperly removing the
crown or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-9 TREES; PRUNING AND TRIMMING.
   PRUNING and TRIMMING. The removal of living or dead parts of a plant,
especially branches, in a careful, scientific, and systematic manner so as to
not damage other parts of the plant.
(Ord. 3163, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-10 TREES; DROP CROTCH PRUNING.
   DROP CROTCH PRUNING. The specific cutting back of a branch or leader to a
lateral branch at least one-third to one-half the diameter of the cut being
made. This pruning is designed to reduce the crown of a tree or individual
branch. It is distinctly different from “topping” in that an effort is made to
leave the tree as natural-looking as possible. It is sometimes referred to as
crown reduction pruning or directional drop crotch pruning.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-11 PARKING STRIP.
   PARKING STRIP. The area of city right-of-way between the curb and the
sidewalk where curb and sidewalk are separated by two feet or more of ground.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-12 CURB-SIDEWALK.
   CURB-SIDEWALK. The sidewalk is installed right next to the curb with no
ground space between curb and sidewalk.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
STREET TREES
§ 20-7-13 SPECIES.
   It shall be unlawful to any person to plant any species of tree or shrub
other than those included on the official list of street trees in any location,
such that the tree or shrub, upon planting, shall constitute a street tree
within the meaning of this article.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-14 SPACING.
   Trees constituting street trees may be planted no closer together than 13
feet for small trees, 18 feet for medium trees, and 23 feet for large trees;
provided, the Park, Cemetery, and Tree Board may approve proposals for
alternative spacing as part of an application for a special exception that is
proposed to be included in a formal landscape plan, if the Board shall
determine that the proposed spacing will not be substantially inconsistent with
the purpose of the City Tree Plan.
(Ord. 3188, passed - -1991)
§ 20-7-15 LIST.
   The list of tree and shrub species for planting as street trees shall be
determined in the same manner as park trees as set out in
Chapter 15, Article 1 of this code.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-16 SHRUBS; HEIGHT.
   Shrubs constituting street trees shall be trimmed to a height not greater
than 30 inches above the top of the curb (or, if there be no curb, the surface
of the street or alley), unless the Park, Cemetery, and Tree Board determines
that a greater height would not constitute a hazard to pedestrians or vehicular
traffic.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-17 DISTANCE FROM CORNER, HYDRANTS, UTILITY LINES, BUILDING, AND
DRIVEWAYS.
   Street trees shall be planted not less than 35 feet from any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines, and not
less than eight feet from any hydrant. Small trees shall be planted no less
than 15 lateral feet from the nearest overhead utility wire and medium trees
shall be planted no less than 25 lateral feet from the same, and large trees no
less than 35 feet from the same. No street tree shall be allowed to grow in
such a manner that it shall interfere with any private or public utility line
either above or below ground. A public or private utility may prune or remove,
if necessary, any street tree which obstructs its lines, wires, or pipes,
including house service lines, wires or pipes.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-18 PLANTING; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, other than an employee of the city acting in the course of such
person’s employment, shall plant a street tree without first obtaining a
written permit for such planting and a copy of the ordinance pertaining thereto
from the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, within 48 hours
prior to planting. The terms of the permit, if granted, shall be strictly
followed.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-19 PRUNING AND TOPPING.
   All pruning of street and park trees shall be done according to National
Arborist Association Class I-IV pruning standards. Any person failing to comply
with these regulations will be subject to prosecution or a hearing conducted
for the purpose of suspension or revocation of license authority, or both.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-20 DROP CROTCH PRUNING.
   (A)   Drop crotch pruning is to be undertaken only for the following
reasons:
      (1)   In situations where branches interfere with utility lines;
      (2)   When there has been significant crown die-back;
      (3)   When it is necessary to achieve specific topiary training or
dwarfing; and
      (4)   In cases where, due to storm damage or prior incorrect pruning, it
is necessary to prune for safety or aesthetics.
   (B)   All drop crotch pruning shall be done according to National Arborist
Association Class IV Standards. Drop crotch pruning done for any other reason
shall be cause for permanent revocation of that firm’s and/or person’s arborist
license. In cases where drop crotch pruning, according to National Arborist
Association standards, is not possible or feasible, the entire tree must be
removed.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-21 TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person including a city or utility employee to
top any street or park tree.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-22 BRANCHES; OBSTRUCTION OF LIGHT AND VIEW; OVERHANGING; PRUNING; UNSAFE
AND INJURIOUS TREES; REMOVAL; NUISANCE.
   (A)   Branches of trees, whether the tree is a street tree or is on private
property abutting the right-of-way of a public street or alley, shall be kept
pruned in such manner as not to obstruct light from any street light on the
street, or the view of any street intersection on the part of the operator of a
vehicle approaching the intersection. Branches overhanging the sidewalk, a
portion of the street used by vehicles, or an alley shall be kept pruned to a
height not less than ten feet above the surface of the sidewalk, and not less
than 12 feet above the surface of such portion of the street and of alleys.
Branches existing in violation of this section are declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   Any tree which, because of an unsafe condition, is hazardous to
persons or property on a sidewalk or portion of a street used by vehicles; any
tree which by its nature is injurious to utility, sewer, water, or gas lines or
other public improvements situated within the right-of-way of a street or
alley; and any tree, whether a street or a tree situated on private property,
which is affected by any injurious insect or disease is declared to be a
nuisance and shall be removed.
   (C)   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for a property owner to
permit, allow, or maintain any dead or diseased tree or trees within the right-
of-way of streets within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 3371, passed - -1994)
§ 20-7-23 SAME; DUTY TO PRUNE AND REMOVE.
   It shall be the duty of any person who owns, occupies, or has the control or
management of any lot or tract of land on which is situated, or which abuts a
portion of the right-of-way of a public street or alley on which is situated, a
tree having branches referred to in §
20-7-22 of this subchapter, to cause all such branches to be pruned as required
in such section; or any tree that is unsafe or injurious or affected by an
insect or disease as provided in such section, to cause such tree to be
removed.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
HAZARDOUS TREES
§ 20-7-24 HAZARDOUS TREES; STATEMENT OF POLICY; DISCRETION CONFERRED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that there are within the corporate limits of
the city numerous trees which are dead or dying. The proximity of many of these
trees to streets and other public rights-of-way creates a public safety
problem. The City Council finds the number of trees involved and other demands
on limited city resources create administrative problems in enforcing the
provisions of this article. The City Council therefore confers on the City
Manager, or his or her designee, the following discretion to:
      (1)   Identify trees within the corporate limits of the city that fall
within one of the following categories:
         (a)   Street trees which constitute an immediate hazard to public
safety;
         (b)   Street trees which constitute a hazard to public safety but
whose removal can be safely deferred for a period of time; and
         (c)   Trees which are situated on private property but, because of the
proximity to public rights-of-way, constitute a hazard to public safety.
      (2)   Distinguish between trees in classifications in divisions (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b), and (A)(1)(c) above. In the enforcement of this article, the
City Manager, or his or her designee, may consider whether a given tree is
within divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b), or (A)(1)(c) above in determining what
enforcement action should be undertaken with regard to such trees and when such
action should be undertaken; and
      (3)   Divide the corporate limits of the city into such enforcement zones
as may be determined by the City Manager, or his or her designee, for the
purpose of efficiently and economically exercising the enforcement powers
conferred upon the city elsewhere in this article.
   (B)   The City Council states its intention that all decisions and actions
or non-actions undertaken pursuant to this article shall be considered
discretionary functions within the meaning of the Political Subdivisions Tort
Claims Act, being Neb. RS 13-901 et seq.
(Ord. 3270, passed - -1993)
§ 20-7-25 NOTICE TO ABATE AND REMOVE NUISANCE; CITY MANAGER OR HIS OR HER
DESIGNEE.
   (A)   If any branches shall not have been pruned or any tree not removed as
provided in §
20-7-23 of this article, the City Manager, or his or her designee, may, in the
exercise of the discretion conferred in this article, give written notice to
abate and remove such nuisance within the time specified in the notice, which
time shall not be less than 30 days after receipt of the notice.
   (B)   The notice referred to in this section shall be given by personal
service or by certified mail. It shall be given to each owner of the property
on which are situated the trees or branches in question, or property which
abuts the sidewalk or other street or alley area on which are situated such
branches or trees. In the alternative, such notice may be given to such owner’s
duly authorized agent. Such notice shall also be given to the occupant, if any.
If the City Manager or his or her designee, after diligent investigation and
inquiry, is unable to ascertain the name, residence, or address of a person, or
other entity who is entitled to the notice described in this section, the City
Manager, or his or her designee, shall cause to be published a notice addressed
to “all persons having or claiming to have an interest in”, followed by a legal
description of the lot or tract. If publication of notice is required, the City
Clerk shall also cause a copy of the notice to be posted on the tree or trees
to which the notice relates.
   (C)   The notice referred to in this section shall inform the recipient that
he or she may request a hearing before the City Council by delivering a written
request for such hearing to the City Clerk not later than ten days after
receipt of the notice or after the publication described in this section.
   (D)   If a hearing is requested in the manner described in this section, the
City Council shall proceed to hear the matter at the soonest convenient time.
At such hearing, the City Council may order the nuisance abated and removed
within such time as the City Council shall determine.
   (E)   Within 30 days after receipt of such notice or after the publication
described in this section, if no hearing has been requested or there has been a
failure to comply with the order to abate or remove such nuisance, or if there
has been a hearing and the owner or occupant fails to remove or abate the
nuisance within the time specified by the City Council, the city may have such
work done and may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and expenses
of the work as provided in this article.
(Ord. 3371, passed - -1994)
§ 20-7-26 REMOVAL BY CITY; ASSESSMENT.
   A true and proper account of the costs and expenses of removing nuisances as
described in this article shall be kept by the City Manager, or his or her
designee, and certified to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall certify to the
City Council the expense of such removal. The City Council shall ascertain the
expense of such removal and shall thereupon assess the same as a special tax
against the property on which was situated the trees so pruned or removed, or
property which abutted the sidewalk or other street or alley area on which was
situated such branches or trees. Such tax shall be levied and assessed to the
extent of special benefit of the property assessed after notice and hearing and
otherwise in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
and assessed.
(Ord. 3371, passed - -1994)
§ 20-7-27 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall permit any nuisance to exist or continue in violation
of §§
20-7-22 or
20-7-23 of this article or of any notice served as provided in §
20-7-25 of this subchapter, shall be guilty of a Class II violation. Each day
during which a violation occurs shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 20-7-28 ARTICLE; SCOPE.
   This article shall apply to all street trees as defined in this article, and
to other trees, as well, in situations in which the context clearly so
indicates.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-29 STUMPS; REMOVAL.
   All stumps of street trees shall be removed to a depth of at least seven
inches below the surface of the ground, and the hole refilled with top soil or
wood chips so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-30 REMOVAL; OBSTRUCTION OF STREET DURING; PERMIT; BOND.
   No person shall obstruct a street, alley, or sidewalk while removing any
tree without obtaining a permit from the City Manager, or the person designated
by the City Manager. No permit may be issued until a bond is filed with the
City Clerk, in an amount to be fixed by the City Manager, or the designee of
the City Manager, signed by the person and an approved surety company and
conditioned that the person will indemnify and keep harmless the city from any
and all liability from accidents, injuries, and damage suits caused by the
removal of the tree.
(Ord. 3161, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-31 SAME; CLOSURE OF STREET; PERMIT; BARRICADES; MARKERS.
   If for public safety, it shall be necessary to close any street, sidewalk,
or alley during the removal of any trees, a permit shall be issued by the City
Manager, or the person designated by the City Manager, for such closure after
an application therefor is endorsed by the Fire Chief and the Police Chief, or
their authorized representative. The person in charge of such work shall
furnish all barricades, red flags, and flares necessary for the closing of such
street, sidewalk, or alley, with a sign posted signifying such closure, and
shall display the name of the person doing the work.
(Ord. 3103, passed - -1988)
§ 20-7-32 ARBORISTS; TREE SERVICE; LICENSE; APPLICATION; FEES; INSURANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person for hire, to plant, prune, treat,
or remove any street or park tree within the city unless the person holds an
arborist’s license issued by the City Clerk. No license shall be required of
any utility company doing this work in the course of its business, except that
a license shall be required of a person that contracts to do this work for a
utility.
   (B)   All applications for an arborist’s license shall be made to the City
Manager, on forms approved for that purpose. In order to be issued a license,
an applicant must:
      (1)   Pay an annual license fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code; and
      (2)   Provide a certificate of insurance evidencing liability insurance
covering acts performed in connection with such activities in the minimum
amounts of $500,000 for bodily injury and $300,000 for property damage. All
licenses shall expire one year from the date they are issued.
(Ord. 3168, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-33 SAME; RENEWAL.
   Every person who is the holder of a license for the immediately preceding
year may renew the license for an additional year upon:
   (A)   Filing an application for renewal with the City Manager on forms
provided for that purpose;
   (B)   Providing evidence of continuing insurance coverage as required by §
20-7-32 of this subchapter; and
   (C)   Payment of a $10 license fee.
(Ord. 3168, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-34 TREE; CUTTING DOWN AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, or wantonly
cut down, destroy, or injure by girdling, tapping, topping, improper pruning,
or otherwise, any street tree within the city, except in compliance with the
requirements of this article. Provided, that damage caused to a street tree as
a result of the city’s exercise of any of its rights to the street right-of-way
shall not be considered a violation of this section. In addition, the city
shall have no liability for damage to trees incurred as a result of the
exercise of these rights.
(Ord. 3168, passed - -1990)
§ 20-7-35 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation. Each
violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 3174, passed - -1990)
CHAPTER 21: SUBDIVISIONS
   Article
      
1.   REGULATIONS
      
2.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1: REGULATIONS
Section
Definitions
   
21-1-1   Generally
   
21-1-2   Plat
   
21-1-3   Street
   
21-1-4   Street; arterial
   
21-1-5   Street; collector
   
21-1-6   Street; marginal access
   
21-1-7   Street; minor
   
21-1-8   Subdivision
   
21-1-9   Other
General Provisions
   
21-1-10   Provisions; applicability
   
21-1-11   Same; conformance required
   
21-1-12   Lots; street frontage required; street dedications
   
21-1-13   Existing streets; extension into subdivision
   
21-1-14   Streets; right-of-way width; dedications
   
21-1-15   Same; intersection jogs; centerline curvature
   
21-1-16   Same; intersection, angle, and curb line radius
   
21-1-17   Same; grades
   
21-1-18   Same; terminal; closed; turnarounds
   
21-1-19   Same; naming
   
21-1-20   Alleys; location
   
21-1-21   Streets and alleys; conformance to future street extensions map
   
21-1-22   Blocks; dimensions; dedications; required when
   
21-1-23   Lots; street frontage; lot lines
   
21-1-24   Same; residential; dimensions; sewage; parking
   
21-1-25   Same; utility easements
   
21-1-26   Zoning requirements
   
21-1-27   Improvements; requirements; general
   
21-1-28   Same; construction by city; special assessments; release of security
   
21-1-29   Same; street and alley intersections
   
21-1-30   Same; water and sewer mains
   
21-1-31   Block corners, street intersections, and curves; setting of rods
   
21-1-32   Streets and alleys; provisions and conformance required
   
21-1-33   Same; grading; removal of obstructions; suitable fill
   
21-1-34   Same; completion of subgrade; improvement; paving stops
   
21-1-35   Same; minimum width improvement
   
21-1-36   Sidewalks; required; construction standards
   
21-1-37   Water supply system; required; standards
   
21-1-38   Sanitary sewer system; required; specifications
   
21-1-39   Drainage system; required; standards
   
21-1-40   Planned unit development; waiver; modification
   
21-1-41   Additional regulations; City Council authority conformance required
   
21-1-42   Proposed subdivisions; plat required; exceptions
   
21-1-43   Proposed subdivisions and approval without plat; public way,
establishment, and change
   
21-1-44   Same; lot boundary changes
   
21-1-45   Same; adjoining platted lots
   
21-1-46   Same; lawful conveyance for completed construction
   
21-1-47   Same; lawful conveyance due to construction problems
   
21-1-48   Same; prior existing tracts
   
21-1-49   Purchase of unplatted property; platting requirements
   
21-1-50   Subdivision application; application to City Council; contents
   
21-1-51   Preliminary plat; submission; fees
   
21-1-52   Preliminary plat; contents
   
21-1-53   Same; elevations
   
21-1-54   Application and preliminary plat; examination; hearing; submittal to
City Council
   
21-1-55   Same; approval or disapproval
   
21-1-56   Final plat
   
21-1-57   Same; submission
   
21-1-58   Same; form
   
21-1-59   Same; conformance to preliminary plat; contents
   
21-1-60   Same; conformance determination
   
21-1-61   Same; approval; filing of original
   
21-1-62   Same; approval and disapproval to be recorded
   
21-1-63   Variance; procedure; grant or denial
   
21-1-64   Violation; penalty
   
21-1-65   Subdivision application; application to Planning and Building
Official; contents; fees
   
21-1-66   Same; plat
   
21-1-67   Same; approval; filing
   
21-1-68   Amended plat; limiting the number of times a final plat can be
amended; procedures; notice; fees
DEFINITIONS
§ 21-1-1 GENERALLY.
   Any of the terms defined in subsequent sections of this article has the
meaning, when used in any article of this chapter, which is given the term in
this article.
§ 21-1-2 PLAT.
   PLAT. Depending upon the context, a map, drawing, or chart showing a lot,
tract, or land, or subdivision of a lot or tract of land; or a proposed lot,
tract of land, or subdivision of a lot or tract of land.
§ 21-1-3 STREET.
   STREET. A way, other than an alley, for vehicular traffic. The term shall
include a street, avenue, boulevard, thoroughfare, highway, parkway,
throughway, road, and lane.
§ 21-1-4 STREET; ARTERIAL.
   STREET; ARTERIAL. A street used primarily for fast-moving or heavy vehicular
traffic.
§ 21-1-5 STREET; COLLECTOR.
   STREET; COLLECTOR. A street carrying vehicular traffic from minor streets to
an arterial street. The term shall include principal entrance streets of, and
streets for the circulation of vehicular traffic within, a residential
development.
§ 21-1-6 STREET; MARGINAL ACCESS.
   STREET; MARGINAL ACCESS. A minor street that is parallel with and adjacent
to an arterial street.
§ 21-1-7 STREET; MINOR.
   STREET; MINOR. A street used primarily for access to abutting lots or
tracts.
§ 21-1-8 SUBDIVISION.
   SUBDIVISION. Depending upon the context, a lot or tract of land that has
been, or is proposed to be, divided into two or more lots or tracts for the
purpose of sale or building development; or the process of dividing a lot or
tract of land in such manner and for such purpose. The term shall include a
resubdivision of a lot or tract of land.
§ 21-1-9 OTHER.
   Other words and phrases shall have the meaning ascribed to them in
Chapter 25, Article 22 of this code.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 21-1-10 PROVISIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this article shall be applicable to all lots, tracts of
land, and parts thereof within the corporate limits of the city and, except as
hereinafter otherwise specified, to all lots, tracts of land, and parts thereof
outside but within two miles of the corporate limits of the city and not within
the corporate limits of any other incorporated city or village. However,
specifically providing that the provisions of this article will not apply to a
UTILITY SUBLOT as defined in §
25-24-2 of this code.
§ 21-1-11 SAME; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall subdivide or lay out in blocks, lots,
streets, or other areas that are proposed to be dedicated to the use of the
public or of the owners or purchasers of abutting or adjacent lots, any lot,
block, or tract of land, or file for record a plan or plat thereof, except in
conformance with the provisions of this article. Nor shall any person, firm, or
corporation convey, transfer, or sell, or agree or negotiate to convey,
transfer, or sell, any land by reference to or exhibition or use of, a plan or
plat of a subdivision unless such plan or plat has been approved and recorded
in the manner prescribed in this article. The description of a lot or parcel by
metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents used in the
process of transferring or selling shall not exempt the transaction from the
requirements of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1987, passed - -1973)
§ 21-1-12 LOTS; STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED; STREET DEDICATIONS.
   Every lot in a subdivision shall abut upon a street that has been dedicated
to public use. Lots that abut upon an arterial street may be required by the
City Council to front upon a marginal access street. No private streets shall
be platted. The City Council may require the platting and dedication to public
use of streets or alleys in the proposed subdivision to provide access to and
from lands, whether platted or unplatted, adjoining, or adjacent to the
subdivision.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-13 EXISTING STREETS; EXTENSION INTO SUBDIVISION.
   Existing arterial and collector streets outside the proposed subdivision
that end at a boundary line of the subdivision shall be extended through the
subdivision.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-14 STREETS; RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH; DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   The width of the right-of-way for streets and alleys in a subdivision,
if shown on a master street plan adopted by the City Council, shall not be less
than that shown on such plan; if not shown on such a plan, the width shall not
be less than the following:
 
Alley                                     20 feet
Street, arterial                          80 to 150 feet, as required by City
                                          Council
Street, collector                         66 feet
Street, marginal access                   50 feet
Street, minor                             60 feet
Street, minor, one-way travel, parking on 46 feet
one side
Street, minor with parking restrictions   52 feet
 
   (B)   Provided, if the width of an existing arterial or collector street
that is to be extended through the subdivision exceeds the foregoing minimum
width, the width of the extended part shall be not less than the greater of the
two widths. If the proposed subdivision abuts upon an existing street, the
right-of-way of which is not as wide as is required by the preceding provisions
of this section, the owner shall dedicate to public use as a street an
adjoining strip of land of such width that the street, thus widened, will
comply with the requirements of such provisions. Provided, the City Council may
approve a street of a lesser width if it finds that topographical or other
physical conditions render impracticable the construction of a street of the
width required by the preceding provisions of this section.
(Ord. 3829, passed - -2005)
§ 21-1-15 SAME; INTERSECTION JOGS; CENTERLINE CURVATURE.
   No street jog at an intersection shall have a centerline offset of less than
125 feet. In the event there occurs a deflection angle of more than ten degrees
in the alignment of a street at a place other than an intersection, a curve of
reasonably long radius shall be provided. On a street of 66 or more feet in
width, the radius of curvature of the centerline shall be not less than 300
feet; on other streets, such radius shall be not less than 100 feet. A tangent
of not less than 100 feet in length shall be provided between reverse curves on
arterial and collector streets.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-16 SAME; INTERSECTION, ANGLE, AND CURB LINE RADIUS.
   Every intersection of streets shall be as nearly as practicable at an angle
of 90 degrees, and in no event less than 60 degrees. The radius of the curb
line at a street intersection shall be not less than 20 feet in length, and, if
the angle of the intersection is less than 75 degrees, the Planning and
Building Official may require a longer radius. Lot lines shall be rounded or
otherwise set back sufficiently to enable sidewalks of normal width to be
constructed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-17 SAME; GRADES.
   Grades on arterial and collector streets shall not exceed 7%, or, on other
streets, 10%. Changes in grade on arterial or collector streets shall be
connected by vertical curves of a length in feet not less than 15 times the
algebraic difference in rates of grade, and, on other streets, not less than
one-half of such length.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-18 SAME; TERMINAL; CLOSED; TURNAROUNDS.
   Minor terminal streets or courts designed to have one end permanently closed
shall not exceed 400 feet in length. The closed end shall have a turnaround the
diameter of the right-of-way of which shall be not less than 100 feet and the
outside diameter of the roadway of which shall be not less than 80 feet. Where
the closed end of a proposed street will abut upon unplatted land, such end
shall have a temporary turnaround the outside diameter of the roadway of which
shall be not less than 80 feet.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-19 SAME; NAMING.
   A proposed street that is substantially in alignment with an existing named
street shall bear the name of the existing street. With such exception, no
street shall bear the name of any existing street that has been dedicated to
public use; and this prohibition shall apply to the substitution of the word
“street”, “avenue”, “boulevard”, “drive”, “place”, or “court”, or of a like
word, for a word contained in the name of an existing street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-20 ALLEYS; LOCATION.
   (A)   An alley shall be provided at the rear of every lot used or proposed
to be used for business purposes. Provided, however, a subdivision may be
approved without an alley at the rear of a lot, if the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   The applicant has provided and will maintain access sufficient for
emergency vehicles and city vehicles needed for trash, sewer, water, or other
city services, as well as access for delivery vehicles; or
      (2)   The applicant has provided and will maintain an access easement(s)
sufficient for the city to use for emergency vehicles, other city vehicles for
trash, sewer, or water.
   (B)   If the owner agrees to provide access under divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2)
above, in either situation, the city, through its Planning and Development
Department, Public Works Department, and Fire Department (“Departments”), will
conduct a review of the proposed subdivision to determine if sufficient access
or easements are present. If the Departments make such a determination, they
will recommend the Mayor or Council President sign a written waiver on behalf
of the city for the required alley and its location.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959; Ord. 4175, passed - -
2016)
§ 21-1-21 STREETS AND ALLEYS; CONFORMANCE TO FUTURE STREET EXTENSIONS MAP.
   As to all matters not specified by ordinance, all streets and alleys shall
conform to such future street extensions map in the city’s Comprehensive Plan
as the City Council may adopt.
(Ord. 1225, passed - -1959; Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 4145, passed 3-2-
2015)
§ 21-1-22 BLOCKS; DIMENSIONS; DEDICATIONS; REQUIRED WHEN.
   Blocks shall be not less than 600 feet nor more than 1,320 feet in length,
unless, in the judgment of the City Council, a lesser or greater length is
necessary to secure efficient use of land or desired street patterns. They
shall be of sufficient width to contain two tiers of lots of minimum depth,
unless the lots will front on arterial or collector streets, or unless
topographical conditions or the size of structures proposed to be erected
render impracticable the creation of two tiers of lots, in which event the City
Council may approve a single tier of lots of minimum depth. If a block exceeds
600 feet in length, and the City Council shall so direct, one or more strips of
land, which shall be not less than ten feet in width and shall extend across
the block at such location or locations as the City Council shall designate,
shall be dedicated to public use for crosswalks; and one or more easements,
which shall be not less than 20 feet in width, and shall extend across the
block at such location or locations as the City Council shall designate, shall
be created for public utility lines.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-23 LOTS; STREET FRONTAGE; LOT LINES.
   Each lot shall front upon a public street. Inside lot lines, insofar as is
practicable, shall be perpendicular to a straight street line, or radial to a
curved street line.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-24 SAME; RESIDENTIAL; DIMENSIONS; SEWAGE; PARKING.
   Residential lots served by a public sewer shall be not less 55 feet in width
at the building line, 90 feet in depth, and 5,500 square feet in area.
Residential lots not served by a public sewer shall be not less than 100 feet
in width at the building setback line, 150 feet in depth, and, in any event,
20,000 square feet in area; all types of lots not served by public sewer shall
contain an area adequate for an approved type of septic tank and disposal
field. Lots proposed to be used for business, commercial, or industrial
purposes shall be of a size and dimensions that will permit the development of
off-street service and parking facilities appropriate to the use contemplated.
Provided, the dimensions and area of a lot in no event shall be less than are
necessary in order to comply with the requirements of Chapter 25 of this code
that are applicable to the lot.
(Ord. 3829, passed - -2005)
§ 21-1-25 SAME; UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   An easement for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas,
water and heat mains, and other utility lines shall be established across the
rear part of lots if an alley is not provided and such an easement, in the
judgment of the City Council, is necessary or desirable. If deemed necessary or
desirable by the City Council, such an easement shall be established along side
lot lines or across other parts of a lot. Such an easement shall be 20 feet in
width, unless both a sanitary sewer and water line are present, in which case
the easement shall be 30 feet in width. The City Council may authorize or
require an easement of a lesser or greater width.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959; Ord. 3861, passed - -
2005)
§ 21-1-26 ZONING REQUIREMENTS.
   The proposed subdivision shall comply in all respects with the requirements
in Chapter 25 of this code that are applicable to the area.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-27 IMPROVEMENTS; REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL.
   (A)   Construction of all improvements required by this article shall apply
in every subdivision hereafter platted that is within the corporate limits of
the city or is proposed to be annexed into the corporate limits of the city,
and every existing street or alley of the city that abuts such subdivision.
However, some, or all, of the improvements required by this article may not be
required in a subdivision hereafter platted if the applied for subdivision is
located outside the city’s corporate limits but within two miles thereof and is
within a designated area as set forth in the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   The city’s Comprehensive Plan will designate areas outside of the
corporate limits of the city where applied for subdivisions may not be required
to have some or all of the improvements required by this article.
   (C)   In any event, the improvements referred in this article must be
constructed in the subdivision in accordance with the requirements in this
article.
   (D)   All improvements required by this article shall be constructed by the
person proposing the subdivision at his or her own expense. Construction shall
not be commenced until after plans and specifications, and contracts, if any,
therefor have been approved by the Planning and Building Official, and shall be
completed in accordance with the plans, specifications, and contracts. Provided
further, anything in the foregoing provisions of this section to the contrary
notwithstanding, the requirements in this section are subject to the exceptions
set forth in the city’s Comprehensive Plan, or stated in §§
21-1-28 to
21-1-30, inclusive, and §
21-1-40 of this subchapter.
   (E)   The applicant shall submit all construction documents representing
“as-constructed” conditions. Each drawing shall be stamped “as-constructed” and
shall be dated. Submit one original Mylar and two copies of the black and white
or blue and white prints. In addition, drawings shall be on three and one-half
inch diskette or CD ROM in PDF format, latest version.
(Ord. 3645, passed - -2000; Ord. 4145, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 21-1-28 SAME; CONSTRUCTION BY CITY; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; RELEASE OF SECURITY.
   (A)   Prior to approval by the City Council of any final plat of a
subdivision in which some or all of the improvements required in this article
have not been constructed, the owner of the property in the proposed
subdivision shall enter into a written agreement with the city, to be approved
by the City Council, as herein provided. The agreement shall provide in effect
that the owner of the property:
      (1)   Agrees to construct such improvements within the time specified in
the agreement;
      (2)   Consents (with respect to the improvements that are of a type which
the city under statute has power to construct, and to pay the cost, or part of
the cost, of which the city has power to levy special assessments against
property to the extent of special benefit) that if such construction is not
completed by the owner within the time specified, the city may, in accordance
with statute, construct such improvements and levy such special assessments;
      (3)   Waives, with respect to the construction and special assessments
referred to in division (A)(2) above, the provision of any statute to the
effect that a protest filed with the City Council or City Clerk by the owner or
owners of property in a proposed improvement district will bar the formation of
the district by the City Council; and
      (4)   Agrees that the agreement shall bind as well the personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, successors, and assigns of the
owner.
   (B)   The agreement shall bear an acknowledgment by the owner, be in a form
recordable in the office of the Register of Deeds, and otherwise be in such
form as the Planning and Building Official shall prescribe. Approval of the
agreement by the City Council, if granted, shall be specifically shown in the
minutes of the meeting of the City Council. Upon approval of the agreement and
the final plat by the City Council, the City Clerk shall cause the agreement to
be filed for record with the Register of Deeds, such filing to be made either
prior to or forthwith after the filing of the plat with the Register of Deeds.
   (C)   The City Manager or the Finance Director is authorized to release all
or part of any security given by the developer to secure the developer’s
financial obligation to the city when one of the following events has occurred:
      (1)   The developer’s financial obligation to the city has been
discharged;
      (2)   The City Manager or Finance Director finds that in pursuant to the
terms of the agreement, the developer is entitled to a release or partial
release of the security; or
      (3)   The City Manager or Finance Director finds that after such a
release, the city will remain adequately secured for the balance of the
developer’s financial obligation to the city.
(Ord. 4332, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 21-1-29 SAME; STREET AND ALLEY INTERSECTIONS.
   The cost of construction of such street or alley intersections, or parts
thereof, as the city shall construct within the city shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2100, passed - -1975)
§ 21-1-30 SAME; WATER AND SEWER MAINS.
   Part of the cost of construction of a water main may be paid by the city in
the circumstances provided in
Chapter 23 of this code. The cost of construction of water mains or sewer mains
that is to be paid initially by the city, whether or not specially assessed to
benefitted property, shall be paid only in warrants as provided in Neb. RS 16-
671, unless the City Council otherwise shall direct.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2100, passed - -1975)
§ 21-1-31 BLOCK CORNERS, STREET INTERSECTIONS, AND CURVES; SETTING OF RODS.
   An iron rod not less than three-fourths inch in diameter and 36 inches in
length shall be set at all block corners, all points at which street lines
intersect the outer boundaries of the subdivision, and all angle points and
points of curve in each street. All other lot corners shall be marked with an
iron rod not less than five-eighths inch in diameter and 18 inches in length.
The tops of all iron rods shall be set flush with the finished grade.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1268, passed - -1960)
§ 21-1-32 STREETS AND ALLEYS; PROVISIONS AND CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to all streets and alleys, and
parts thereof, within the subdivision, whether completed at the time of the
platting of the subdivision, or constructed thereafter. If an existing street,
or a part thereof, lies outside of the subdivision but the street adjoins the
subdivision, the part of the street between the centerline and the right-of-way
line that constitutes the boundary line of, or lies within, the subdivision
shall also be made to conform to such requirements.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-33 SAME; GRADING; REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS; SUITABLE FILL.
   The right-of-way of every street and alley shall be graded to its full
width. Prior to the commencement of grading, the entire right-of-way area shall
be cleared of all stumps, roots, brush, and other objectionable materials and
all trees not intended for preservation. Stumps, boulders, and other
obstructions shall be removed to a depth of not less than two feet below the
subgrade. Rock other than boulders, when encountered, shall be scarified to a
depth of not less than 12 inches below the subgrade. Suitable material from
street or alley cuts may be used in the construction of fills, approaches, or
other places as needed. Excess materials (as, for example, soft clay and
organic materials) shall be removed from the site. The fill shall be spread in
layers not to exceed 12 inches in depth when loose, and shall be compacted by a
sheep’s foot or rubber tired roller; provided, utility trenches and other
locations not accessible to a roller shall be mechanically tamped. Where water
is used to assist compaction, the water content shall not exceed optimum
moisture.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-34 SAME; COMPLETION OF SUBGRADE; IMPROVEMENT; PAVING STOPS.
   (A)   Upon completion of the subgrade, the roadbed of every street and alley
shall be improved, at a minimum, with the following material.
      (1)   Street, arterial. A subgrade investigation and pavement design
report shall be required to determine an adequate pavement cross-section. The
cross-section shall consist of the recommended pavement cross-section or a
minimum cross-section consisting of five inches of Portland cement concrete
(PCC) or, alternatively, a four-inch stabilized base course with a four-inch
asphaltic concrete wear surface (placed in maximum two-inch lifts).
      (2)   Street, collector. A subgrade investigation and pavement design
report shall be required to determine an adequate pavement cross-section. The
cross-section shall consist of the recommended pavement cross-section or a
minimum cross-section consisting of five inches of Portland cement concrete
(PCC) or, alternatively, a four-inch stabilized base course with a four-inch
asphaltic concrete wear surface (placed in maximum two-inch lifts).
      (3)   Street, other. A subgrade investigation and pavement design report
shall be required to determine an adequate pavement cross-section. The cross-
section shall consist of the recommended pavement cross-section or a minimum
cross-section consisting of five inches of Portland cement concrete (PCC) or,
alternatively, a four-inch stabilized base course with a two-inch asphaltic
concrete wear surface.
   (B)   Provided, concrete paving stops, which shall be not less than five
inches in thickness and 100 feet in length, shall be constructed at all
approaches of asphaltic concrete streets to intersections with arterial or
collector streets. Concrete curb and gutter also shall be constructed on all
streets referred to in this section.
   (C)   Provided further, that the City Planner may waive the requirements of
this section for areas outside of the corporate city limits, but any waiver by
the City Planner must be limited to those areas designated in the city’s
Comprehensive Plan as areas where the improvements described this section are
not required.
(Ord. 3858, passed - -2005; Ord. 4145, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 21-1-35 SAME; MINIMUM WIDTH IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   Every street and alley shall be improved as provided in §
21-1-34 of this subchapter to a minimum width.
   (B)   Minimum width, to be measured from gutter flowline to gutter flowline,
shall be as follows.
 
Street, arterial                                 As required by City Council
Street, collector                                43 feet
Street, minor                                    37 feet
Street, minor with parking restrictions          30 feet
Street, minor, one-way travel, parking one side  22 feet
Street, minor, one-way travel, parking one side, 20 feet
center median
Street, marginal access                          33 feet
 
(Ord. 3829, passed - -2005)
§ 21-1-36 SIDEWALKS; REQUIRED; CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Sidewalks conforming to the specifications for sidewalks set forth in
Article 3 of Chapter 20 of this code shall be constructed within the right-of-
way of all streets.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-37 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM; REQUIRED; STANDARDS.
   (A)   A water supply system, including mains, valves, hydrants, and other
necessary appurtenances, shall be constructed.
   (B)   The types and size of water mains, location, and types of valves and
hydrants, depth of soil cover over pipes, and all other construction features
shall conform to the standards and specifications as contained in the following
codes published by American Water Works Association (AWWA) and editions
approved by AWWA on the dates shown:
      (1)   AWWA Standard for Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Pressure Pipe, 4 inches
through 12 inches, for Water Distribution; January 29, 1989;
      (2)   American National Standard for Ductile-Iron and Gray-Iron Fittings,
3 inches through 48 inches, for Water and Other Liquids; June 18, 1987;
      (3)   American National Standard for Cement-Mortar Lining For Ductile-
Iron Pipe and Fittings for Water; January 28, 1985;
      (4)   American National Standard for Ductile-Iron Pipe, Centrifugally
Cast in Metal Molds or Sand-Lined Molds, for Water or Other Liquids; June 22,
1986;
      (5)   American National Standard for Ductile-Iron Compact Fittings, 3
inches through 16 inches, for Water and Other Liquids; June 19, 1988;
      (6)   AWWA Standard for Direct-Reading Remote-Registration Systems for
Cold-Water Meters; June 22, 1986;
      (7)   AWWA Standard for Cold-Water Meters-Compound Type; June 22, 1986;
      (8)   AWWA Standard for Cold-Water Meters-Turbine Type; June 19, 1988;
      (9)   AWWA Standard for Resilient-Seated Gate Valves for Water and
Sewerage Systems; January 25, 1987;
      (10)   AWWA Standard for Rubber-Seated Butterfly Valves; June 18, 1987;
      (11)   AWWA Standard for Dry-Barrel Fire Hydrants; January 27, 1985;
      (12)   American National Standard for Rubber-Gasket Joints for Ductile-
Iron and Gray-Iron Pressure Pipe and Fittings; June 23, 1985; and
      (13)   AWWA Standard for Disinfecting Water Mains; January 26, 1986.
(Ord. 3153, passed - -1990)
§ 21-1-38 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM; REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   A sanitary sewer system, adequate to serve each of the lots in the
subdivision, shall be constructed and connected to the sanitary sewer system of
the city. The sewer mains and laterals shall comply as to type and size with
such requirements, conformable to good engineering practice, as the Planning
and Building Official shall prescribe; provided, sewer mains and laterals in no
event shall be less than eight inches in diameter (inside measurement).
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-39 DRAINAGE SYSTEM; REQUIRED; STANDARDS.
   (A)   An adequate system to control the adverse impacts associated with
increased stormwater runoff shall be constructed.
   (B)   The minimum stormwater controls shall require that all developments
provide management measures necessary to maintain the post-developed peak
discharge at a level that is equal to or less than the pre-developed peak
discharge for the design storm. The (m) year storm is defined as a storm event
which, over a long period of time, will be equaled or exceeded on the average
of once every (m) years.
   (C)   Site specific facilities shall be designed to restrict stormwater
discharge to that generated from the pre-developed site during a five-year
storm. The facilities shall be designed to limit the Q5 discharge up through
the ten-year storm event. The facility shall be designed to prevent
uncontrolled overflow for storms having a frequency of 25 years or less.
   (D)   Regional facilities shall be designed to allow a maximum controlled
discharge of Q5 pre-development through the 25-year storm. The minimum
uncontrolled overflow should be based on the 100-year storm.
   (E)   Site grading and drainage for all sites shall be designed to prevent
stormwater from outside of the design area from entering the area.
   (F)   All conveyance systems for proposed projects shall be analyzed,
designed, and constructed for existing tributary off-site runoff and developed
on-site runoff from the proposed project. Conveyance systems in residential
areas shall be designed to carry a two-year intensity storm. A ten-year
intensity storm shall be used to check the hydraulic grade of the pipe system.
The hydraulic grade line shall be limited to five inches of water in the
gutter.
   (G)   In commercial and industrial areas, the design storm intensity shall
be a storm of five-year frequency, the check intensity for hydraulic grade
calculations shall be a ten-year frequency with the hydraulic grade limited to
the gutter elevation.
(Ord. 3669, passed - -2001)
§ 21-1-40 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT; WAIVER; MODIFICATION.
   Anything in the preceding sections of this article to the contrary
notwithstanding, if a proposed subdivision comprises, or is wholly comprised
within, an area with respect to which the Planning Commission shall have issued
a special permit authorizing a planned unit development as provided in
Article 9 of Chapter 25 of this code, the City Council may, with respect to
such subdivision, or a part thereof, waive or modify the requirements in this
article concerning the design of streets, street right-of-way width, width of
construction of streets, length of streets, length or width of blocks, design
of cul-de-sacs, necessity or location of curb, gutter and sidewalls, type of
construction of streets and sidewalks, utilities design, and public facilities
design.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2489, passed - -1979)
§ 21-1-41 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS; CITY COUNCIL AUTHORITY; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   The City Council, prior to approving a proposed subdivision, may impose
requirements set forth in the foregoing sections of this article, and
compliance with such additional requirements shall also be necessary to warrant
approval of the subdivision. Provided, notwithstanding the fact that a proposed
subdivision may comply with the requirements set forth in the foregoing
sections of this article, the City Council may refuse to approve it if, in the
judgment of the City Council, platting and development of the site for the
purposes or in the manner proposed, or for other reasons, would not be in the
public interest.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-42 PROPOSED SUBDIVISIONS; PLAT; REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   A proposed subdivision of a lot, block, or other tract of land shall not be
approved by the City Council unless and until a plat thereof shall have been
submitted to the Planning and Building Official and presented to the Planning
Commission and the City Council, and approved by the City Council, as provided
in this article, and approval of the plat shall constitute approval of the
subdivision; provided, a plat effecting a further subdivision of existing lots
and blocks may be approved by the Planning and Building Official as provided in
§§
21-1-65,
21-1-66, and
21-1-67 of this subchapter, whenever all required public improvements have been
installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-way or easements is involved,
and such subdivision complies with all requirements in Chapter 25 of this code
concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks. Provided,
further, a proposed subdivision may be approved by the City Council without a
plat in circumstances described in this article.
(Ord. 2812, passed - -1983)
§ 21-1-43 PROPOSED SUBDIVISIONS AND APPROVAL WITHOUT PLAT; PUBLIC WAY,
ESTABLISHMENT, AND CHANGE.
   A proposed subdivision may be approved without a plat thereof if the
subdivision is for the purpose solely of establishing or changing the boundary
of a public way.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2359, passed - -1977)
§ 21-1-44 SAME; LOT BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   A proposed subdivision may be approved without a plat thereof if the
subdivision consists of a change of boundary between two adjoining lots on one
or both of which are situated a building or buildings which do not comply with
minimum setback requirements under
Article 3, as amended, of Chapter 25 of this code, where the purpose of the
change is to effect, or more nearly effect, compliance with such requirements;
provided, a change of boundary between two adjoining lots for the purpose of
effecting, or more nearly effecting, compliance with setback requirements shall
not be approved unless the City Council shall find that the owner of the lot at
the time when construction of the building was commenced did not have knowledge
of the noncompliance, or of facts that should have put him or her on inquiry in
regard thereto.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2359, passed - -1977)
§ 21-1-45 SAME; ADJOINING PLATTED LOTS.
   A proposed subdivision may be approved without a plat thereof if the
subdivision consists of a subdivision of three adjoining platted lots into two
adjoining unplatted lots.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2359, passed - -1977)
§ 21-1-46 SAME; LAWFUL CONVEYANCE FOR COMPLETED CONSTRUCTION.
   A proposed subdivision may be approved without a plat thereof if the
subdivision is for the purpose of making lawful the conveyance of a part of a
lot, block, or tract of land which would otherwise be or was accomplished in
violation of §
21-1-42 of this subchapter, either in the original form of such section or as
amended from time to time, where a building has been constructed on such part
of a lot, block, or tract of land in accordance with a building permit issued
by the Planning and Building Official, and where the City Council finds that
the owner of the lot, at the time of application for the building permit, fully
disclosed all of the pertinent facts to the Planning and Building Official.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2581, passed - -1980)
§ 21-1-47 SAME; LAWFUL CONVEYANCE DUE TO CONSTRUCTION PROBLEMS.
   A proposed subdivision may be approved without a plat thereof if the
subdivision is for the purpose of making lawful the conveyance of a part of
lot, block, or tract of land which would otherwise be or was accomplished in
violation of §
21-1-42 of this subchapter, either in the original form of such section or as
amended from time to time, where the acquisition or conveyance of such part of
a lot, block, or tract of land was made necessary by problems arising in the
construction of a building on adjoining property and where the City Council
finds that the problems arising in the construction of the building could not
reasonably have been anticipated before commencement of construction.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2359, passed - -1977)
§ 21-1-48 SAME; PRIOR EXISTING TRACTS.
   A proposed subdivision may be approved without a plat thereof if the
subdivision is of a lot into two or more tracts on each of which there has
existed since June 10, 1974 one or more residence buildings. Provided, approval
of such subdivision shall not entitle the owners or occupants of the tracts
thus created to occupy or use the tracts if the occupancy or use would be in
violation of requirements of
Chapter 25, Article 3 of this code, as amended, unless such persons shall first
obtain from the Planning Commission a special permit as provided in
Chapter 25, Article 3 of this code.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2419, passed - -1978)
§ 21-1-49 PURCHASE OF UNPLATTED PROPERTY; PLATTING REQUIREMENTS.
   If the vendee under a written contract to purchase unplatted property from
the owner of record proposes to plat some or all of the property without the
signature upon the plat of the vendor, the City Council nevertheless may
approve a subdivision which would be effected by a deed of the property which
the vendee proposes to plat from the vendor to the vendee if all the following
conditions are met:
   (A)   If prior to such approval the City Council has approved a preliminary
plat, signed and acknowledged by the vendee, of all of the property which is
the subject of the contract;
   (B)   If, prior to or concurrently with the City Council’s approval of the
subdivision that will be effected by the deed, the City Council approves a
final plat, signed and acknowledged by the vendee, covering all the property,
and only the property, that is the subject of the deed; and
   (C)   Prior to or concurrently with the approval of such final plat by the
City Council, a warranty deed from the owner of record to the vendee of all and
only the property covered by the final plat (together with the recording fee)
is delivered to the City Clerk for recording with the Register of Deeds. The
City Clerk shall cause the deed so delivered to be filed with the Register of
Deeds for recording prior to filing the plat for recording.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2359, passed - -1977)
§ 21-1-50 SUBDIVISION APPLICATION; APPLICATION TO CITY COUNCIL; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Every application for approval of a subdivision by the City Council
shall be in writing, and shall identify the tract of land proposed to be
subdivided, describe the proposed subdivision and the purpose thereof, and
state whether the subdivision is proposed to be effected by a plat or by a deed
without a plat. The application shall be signed by the owner of record of the
tract proposed to be subdivided and, if the tract has been sold under a
contract providing for a deed which has not been recorded, shall also be signed
by the purchaser under the contract. The application shall be accompanied by
proof of ownership stating the record ownership of the tract proposed to be
subdivided. The proof of ownership shall be dated not more than ten days prior
to the date the application is delivered to the city.
   (B)   The proof of ownership shall be in one of the following forms or a
combination of them:
      (1)   A written opinion of an attorney-at-law licensed to practice under
the laws of the state;
      (2)   A photocopy of a title insurance policy or, alternatively, a
commitment for title insurance issued in either case by a title insurance
company authorized to do business in the state; or
      (3)   A certificate of a registered abstracter, duly authorized as such
according to the laws of the state.
(Ord. 3260, passed - -1992)
§ 21-1-51 PRELIMINARY PLAT; SUBMISSION; FEES.
   If a tract of land proposed to be subdivided is to be platted, a preliminary
plat of the proposed subdivision, in two copies, shall be submitted to the City
Planner not less than one month prior to the meeting of the Planning Commission
at which the subdivision proposal is first to be presented. Any subsequent
presentation to the City Council is not subject to this one-month review
period. At the time of submitting the preliminary plat to the Planning and
Building Official, the applicant shall pay to the Official a fee in the amount
provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code. If the tract of land is not to be platted,
the applicant shall, at the time of submitting the application to the Official,
pay to the Official a fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3827, passed - -2005)
§ 21-1-52 PRELIMINARY PLAT; CONTENTS.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one
inch to the 100 feet. It shall contain the following drawings and information:
      (1)   Legal description, acreage, and name of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner, name of the person who prepared the
plat, and date;
      (3)   North point and graphic scale;
      (4)   Contours at five-foot intervals;
      (5)   Sketch map showing relationship of the subdivision site to the
surrounding area;
      (6)   Names of adjoining subdivisions and streets;
      (7)   Location of existing lot lines, streets, public utility easements,
water mains, sewers, drain pipes, culverts, water courses, bridges, railroads,
and buildings in the proposed subdivision;
      (8)   Layout of proposed blocks and lots, including the dimensions of
each, the block and lot numbers in numerical order, and building setback lines;
      (9)   Locations, widths, other dimensions, and names of proposed streets,
alleys, roads, easements, parks, and other open spaces or reserved areas;
      (10)   Grades of proposed streets and alleys, which shall refer to and
include a permanent benchmark extended from the Base Survey Bench Mark; and
      (11)   The present zoning classification of the land to be subdivided and
of the adjoining land.
   (B)   The preliminary plat of a subdivision within, or proposed to be
included within, the city shall show, in addition:
      (1)   A cross-section of the proposed streets showing width of roadway,
location and type of curb and gutter, paving, where required, and sidewalks to
be installed; and
      (2)   The layout and grades of proposed water mains, sewers, drains,
power lines, and other utilities. The arrangement and design of the features
shown in the preliminary plat shall comply with the requirements in the
preceding sections of this article.
   (C)   In addition to submitting the drawing, the applicant shall submit the
plat containing the information described above on a three and one-half inch
diskette or CD ROM in PDF drawing format, latest version.
   (D)   Information relating the plat datum to state plane coordinates shall
be provided on the plat so that the plat can be included in the city and Scotts
Bluff County GIS data. Each entity shall be responsible for adding the data to
the GIS. For plats less than 20 acres, the point of beginning of the plat shall
be referenced to state plane coordinates. The datum shall be NAD 83 (in feet),
or the current datum adopted by the city at the time of plat submittal.
Information on existing monuments that have established state plane coordinates
can be obtained from the County Surveyor. The reference can be in the form of a
note on the plat that includes a description of the reference point, the
coordinates in feet, and the average scale factor. For plats larger than 20
acres, the point of beginning and one additional point at the opposite corner
of the point of beginning shall be referenced to state plane coordinates. The
reference can be in the form of a note on the plat that includes a description
of the reference points, coordinates in feet, and the average scale factor. The
applicant shall also submit one paper copy of the preliminary plat on a sheet
not to exceed 11 inches by 17 inches.
(Ord. 3693, passed - -2001)
§ 21-1-53 SAME; ELEVATIONS.
   The preliminary plat of a subdivision comprising more than 50 lots or more
than five acres, whichever is lesser in area, shall show, in addition to the
information prescribed in §
21-1-52 of this subchapter, current elevations, fill elevations, and elevations
to which floors of buildings developed on the property must be constructed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2499, passed - -1979)
§ 21-1-54 APPLICATION AND PRELIMINARY PLAT; EXAMINATION; HEARING; SUBMITTED TO
CITY COUNCIL.
   Upon compliance of this article, the Planning and Building Official shall
examine the application and the preliminary plat, if any, and examine or cause
to be examined by the City Attorney the proof of ownership of the tract
proposed to be subdivided. Thereafter, the application and the plat, if any,
together with the recommendation of the Planning and Building Official, shall
be submitted to the Planning Commission. Subsequent to a hearing thereon by the
Planning Commission as provided by law, the application, the plat, if any, the
recommendation of the Planning and Building Official, and the recommendation of
the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the City Council.
(Ord. 3260, passed - -1992)
§ 21-1-55 SAME; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   After receiving the report of the Planning and Building Official, the City
Council shall approve, with or without modifications, or disapprove the
preliminary plat. Provided, approval by the City Council of a preliminary plat
shall not constitute final approval of a plat; provided further, approval by
the City Council of a preliminary plat, shall lapse and be of no further effect
unless a final plat, and such other plans as the City Council may require,
shall be submitted and approved by the City Council as hereinafter set forth.
Upon approval, with or without modifications, or disapproval of a preliminary
plat by the City Council, one copy thereof bearing or accompanied by notations
by the Planning and Building Official concerning the action taken by the City
Council shall be returned to the person who submitted the plat.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-56 FINAL PLAT.
   All final plats shall conform to the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 3156, passed - -1990)
§ 21-1-57 SAME; SUBMISSION.
   A final plat, in two copies, complying with the requirements set forth in
this article, together with any other plans that may be required by the City
Council, shall be submitted to the City Planner not less than one month prior
to the meeting of the Planning Commission at which the final plat proposed is
to be presented for approval. Any subsequent presentation to the City Council
is not subject to this one-month review period. In no event shall the final
plat be submitted to the City Planner more than two years after approval of the
preliminary plat by the City Council, unless application for an extension of
time for submitting the final plat is filed with the City Planner within such
two-year period and is granted by the City Council.
(Ord. 3891, passed - -2005)
§ 21-1-58 SAME; FORM.
   The final plat shall be drawn in black ink on Mylar; provided, one copy may
be in the form of prints in black and white or blue and white. They shall be
drawn to a scale on a sheet not to exceed 11 inches by 17 inches in size. When
more than one sheet is needed, the sheets shall be lettered in alphabetical
order, and there shall be attached to them an index sheet of the same size
showing in key form the numbering of the sheets.
(Ord. 3693, passed - -2001)
§ 21-1-59 SAME; CONFORMANCE TO PRELIMINARY PLAT; CONTENTS.
   (A)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, or as approved with modifications, by the City Council; provided, if
the person submitting the final plat shall desire to develop less than the
whole of the area platted in the preliminary plat, and to record a plat of only
the part to be developed, the final plat may include only such area if the plat
otherwise conforms to all of the requirements in this article.
   (B)   The final plat shall contain the following:
      (1)   Legal description, acreage, and name of the proposed subdivision;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner, name of the person who prepared the
plat, and date;
      (3)   North point and graphic scale;
      (4)   Names of adjoining subdivisions and streets;
      (5)   Location of existing lot lines, streets, and public utility
easements;
      (6)   Layout of proposed blocks and lots, including the dimensions of
each and the block and lot numbers in numerical order;
      (7)   Locations, widths, other dimensions, and names of proposed streets,
alleys, roads, easements, parks, and other open spaces or reserved areas;
      (8)   Notes stating purposes and limitations of any areas dedicated to
public use;
      (9)   Data sufficient to permit ready determination and reproduction at
the site of the location, and length of every street, lot, block, or other
boundary line, whether curved or straight, including, in the case of curved
street or curved lot line that does not constitute the boundary of a curved
street, the radius, central angle, and tangent distance for the centerline of
such curved street or curved lot line;
      (10)   All dimensions to the nearest one-hundredth of a foot, and angles
to the nearest minute;
      (11)   Locations and descriptions of monuments;
      (12)   A certificate of the accuracy of the survey, plat, and placement
of monuments signed by the registered surveyor by whom the work was done;
      (13)   A certificate, signed and acknowledged by the person by whom the
plat is submitted, to the effect that he or she is the owner of the land shown
in the plat, that he or she plats the same and dedicates to the public use the
areas shown in the plat as being dedicated to such use, and, if the land is
being brought within the corporate limits of the city, that the land is made an
addition to the city; and
      (14)   A form of certificate, to be signed by the Mayor, showing approval
of the plat by the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-60 SAME; CONFORMANCE DETERMINATION.
   The Planning and Building Official shall determine whether a final plat
which has been submitted for approval by the City Council complies with the
requirements of this article, and advise the Mayor and City Council in regard
thereto.
(Ord. 2812, passed - -1983)
§ 21-1-61 SAME; APPROVAL; FILING OF ORIGINAL.
   (A)   If the final plat is approved by the Mayor and City Council, such
approval shall be indicated on the original (linen) copy and two of the black
and white or blue and white prints by the signature of the Mayor. Approval of
the final plat by the Mayor and City Council:
      (1)   Shall constitute acceptance of the dedication to public use of
streets, alleys, and other public ways and places shown in the plat; and
      (2)   If the subdivision is within, or the plat contains a declaration by
the signers to the effect that the subdivision is being annexed to the
corporate limits of the city, shall constitute acceptance of the subdivision as
an addition to the city.
   (B)   The original (linen) copy and one copy of the print shall be delivered
to the person by whom they were submitted, and such person shall cause the
original (linen) copy and one copy to be filed for record in the office of the
County Register of Deeds, within 30 days after approval of the plat by the
Mayor and City Council; if the plat shall not be so filed, the City Council, by
resolution, may declare its previous acceptance of the plat to be void and of
no force and effect and, upon the adoption of such a resolution and the filing
of a copy thereof in recordable form by the City Clerk in the office of the
Register of Deeds prior to the filing of the plat in such office, the previous
acceptance of the plat by the Mayor and City Council and the plat itself shall
be void and of no force and effect. Provided, in the case of any plat approved
after January 3, 1978, there shall be returned to the person by whom the copies
were submitted only one copy, namely, one of the signed prints, and the City
Clerk shall cause to be filed for record in the office of the Register of Deeds
the original (linen) copy of such plat. The person by whom the plat was
submitted shall, within 15 days after approval of the plat, furnish to the
Planning and Building Official six additional copies of the plat.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2359, passed - -1977)
§ 21-1-62 SAME; APPROVAL AND DISAPPROVAL TO BE RECORDED.
   Approval or disapproval of a final plat by the Mayor and City Council shall
be shown in the records of the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1225, passed - -1959)
§ 21-1-63 VARIANCE; PROCEDURE; GRANT OR DENIAL.
   Except as to matters governed by the provisions of Chapter 25 of this code
(as to which matters variances may be granted only in the circumstances and in
accordance with the procedure therein provided), the City Council may authorize
a variance from the substantive requirements of this article when, in its
opinion, undue hardship due to topographical or other conditions peculiar to
the site of the proposed subdivision may result from strict compliance, and the
variance will observe the spirit of this article, secure the public safety and
welfare, and do substantial justice. Application for a variance shall be
submitted to the Planning and Building Official in writing by the person
submitting the preliminary plat of the subdivision at the time when the
preliminary plat is submitted to the Planning and Building Official. The
application shall be addressed to the City Council and shall state fully the
grounds for the application and the facts relied upon by the applicant. The
granting or denial of the application shall be shown in the records of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2801, passed - -1983)
§ 21-1-64 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation.
§ 21-1-65 SUBDIVISION APPLICATION; APPLICATION TO PLANNING AND BUILDING
OFFICIAL; CONTENTS; FEES.
   (A)   Every application for approval of a subdivision by the Planning and
Building Official shall comply with all the provisions of this article, except
that the application shall state that the subdivision is proposed to be
effected by a plat.
   (B)   The application shall be filed with the Official and shall be
accompanied by a filing fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code, to be paid to the Official.
(Ord. 2812, passed - -1983; Ord. 4332, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 21-1-66 SAME; PLAT.
   There also shall be submitted to the Planning and Building Official at the
time of the filing of the application four copies of a plat of the tract to be
subdivided which in form shall comply with the requirements in this article,
and in content shall comply with the numbered requirements in §
21-1-59 of this subchapter, except requirement in §
21-1-59(B)(14). In addition, the plat shall contain a form of certificate, to
be signed by the Planning and Building Official showing approval of the plat by
the Official.
(Ord. 2812, passed - -1983)
§ 21-1-67 SAME; APPROVAL; FILING.
   (A)   If the Official shall determine that the plat complies with the
requirements of this article which are applicable to such a plat, he or she
shall enter in the records of the Planning and Building Official, an order
approving the plat, and shall also indicate such approval, by an entry over his
or her signature, on the original (linen) copy and two of the black and white
or blue and white prints. Such approval shall constitute approval of the
proposed subdivision. If he or she shall not approve the plat, he or she shall
enter in the records of the Department an order to the effect that the plat has
not been approved or, as the case may be, has been disapproved, and such order
shall constitute disapproval of the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   One copy of the print shall be re-delivered to the person by whom the
copies were submitted, and the Planning and Building Official shall cause the
original, (linen) copy to be delivered to the City Clerk, who shall cause such
copy to be filed for record in the office of the Register of Deeds. The person
by whom the plat was submitted shall, within 15 days after approval of the plat
by the Official, furnish to the Official six additional copies of the plat.
   (C)   In addition to submitting the drawing, the applicant shall submit the
plat containing the information described above on a three and one-half inch
diskette or CD ROM in PDF format.
   (D)   Information relating the plat datum to state plane coordinates shall
be provided on the plat so that the plat can be included in the city and County
of Scotts Bluff GIS data. Each entity shall be responsible for adding the data
to the GIS. For plats less than 20 acres, the point of beginning on the plat
shall be referenced to state plane coordinates. The datum shall be NAD 83 (in
feet), or the current datum adopted by the city at the time of plat submittal.
Information on existing monuments that have established state plane coordinates
can be obtained from the County Surveyor. The reference can be in the form of a
note on the plat that includes a description of the reference point, the
coordinates in feet, and the average scale factor. For plats larger than 20
acres, the point of beginning and one additional point at the opposite corner
of the point of beginning shall be referenced to state plane coordinates. The
reference can be in the form of a note on the plat that includes a description
of the reference points, coordinates in feet, and the average scale factor.
(Ord. 3645, passed - -2000)
§ 21-1-68 AMENDED PLAT; LIMITING THE NUMBER OF TIMES A FINAL PLAT CAN BE
AMENDED; PROCEDURES; NOTICE; FEES.
   (A)   After approval of a final plat by the Mayor and City Council, such
final plat may be amended or replatted, either in whole or in part, a total of
two times. If an application for amendment or replat of a final plat or portion
of an existing plat, is received by the city for a third time, the final or
existing plat must be vacated by ordinance prior to any amendment or
replatting, after hearings by the Planning Commission and the City Council,
before the city will approve the application by the owners. Except as
specifically provided in this section, the amended plat and application
therefor shall conform to all requirements of this article for final plats
provided however, that if only part of the final plat is amended, the
certificate required by §
21-1-59 of this subchapter may be made by the owner or owners of the land shown
in the amended plat.
   (B)   At the time of submitting the amended plat to the Planning and
Building Official, the applicant shall pay a fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
   (C)   In addition to submitting the drawing, the applicant shall submit the
plat in PDF format, latest version.
   (D)   Information relating the plat datum to state plane coordinates shall
be provided on the plat so that the plat can be included in the city and County
of Scotts Bluff GIS data. Each entity shall be responsible for adding the data
to the GIS. For plats less than 20 acres, the point of beginning on the plat
shall be referenced to state plane coordinates. The datum shall be NAD 83 (in
feet), or the current datum adopted by the city at the time of plat submittal.
Information on existing monuments that have established state plane coordinates
can be obtained from the County Surveyor. The reference can be in the form of a
note on the plat that includes a description of the reference point, the
coordinates in feet, and the average scale factor. For plats larger than 20
acres, the point of beginning and one additional point at the opposite corner
of the point of beginning shall be referenced to state plane coordinates. The
reference can be in the form of a note on the plat that includes a description
of the reference points, coordinates in feet, and the average scale factor.
   (E)   An application to amend a plat shall set forth the number of times a
replat or amendment has been applied for by the owner prior to this application
and shall be reviewed by the Planning and Building Commission only if the
proposed amendment creates more lots than existed on the original final plat or
if the amended plat proposes to make changes in any public right-of-way or
easement.
(Ord. 3645, passed - -2000; Ord. 4149, passed 6-6-2015; Ord. 4332, passed 7-15-
2024)
ARTICLE 2: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
21-2-1   Grades; base surveys; grade book
   
21-2-2   Same; grade plans
   
21-2-3   Same; curb grades
   
21-2-4   Same; violations; penalty
§ 21-2-1 GRADES; BASE SURVEYS; GRADE BOOK.
   The base survey benchmark for the establishment of a grade for any
improvement within the city shall be the benchmark as established by the
Chicago, Burlington, and Quincy Railroad Company (now Burlington Northern,
Inc.) at the southeast corner of the passenger depot of such company. Such
benchmark is designated U.S.G.S. 3876.05 feet above sea level, and also is
known as 3841.49 feet city datum equivalent. Every grade fixed upon any street,
alley, sidewalk, or gutter or for any other purpose within the city, or within
its subdivision or zoning jurisdiction outside the corporate limits, shall be
fixed and established with relation to such grade. All such grades shall be
recorded and kept by the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, in
a book marked Scottsbluff Bench Marks, which book shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Manager or the designee of the City Manager, and hereby is
made by reference a part of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2354, passed - -1977)
§ 21-2-2 SAME; GRADE PLANS.
   All plans establishing a grade plan shall refer to and include a permanent
benchmark extended from the base survey benchmark.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2354, passed - -1977)
§ 21-2-3 SAME; CURB GRADES.
   Curb grades shall be determined from the grades contained in the approved
preliminary subdivision plat, approved street construction plans, or as-built
street construction plans, whichever is the more recent.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2354, passed - -1977)
§ 21-2-4 SAME; VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this article is a Class II violation.
CHAPTER 22: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
      
2.   OPERATION OF VEHICLES
      
3.   VEHICLES; SIZE; EQUIPMENT; CONDITION; REGISTRATION
      
4.   DRIVERS; RIDERS; OCCUPANTS
      
5.   DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR OR DRUGS
      
6.   PARKING
      
7.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
8.   ENFORCEMENT
      
9.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
10.   VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
22-1-1   Generally
   
22-1-2   Abandoned vehicle
   
22-1-3   Alley
   
22-1-4   Alley entrance
   
22-1-4.1   Repealed
   
22-1-5   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
22-1-6   Business district
   
22-1-7   City delivery truck
   
22-1-8   Commercial vehicle
   
22-1-9   Crosswalk
   
22-1-10   Curb
   
22-1-11   Driver or operator
   
22-1-12   Exempt truck vehicle
   
22-1-13   Handicapped or disabled person; temporarily handicapped or disabled
person
   
22-1-14   Inside lane
   
22-1-15   Intersection
   
22-1-16   Legal holiday
   
22-1-17   License gross weight
   
22-1-18   Loading zone
   
22-1-19   Motor truck vehicle
   
22-1-20   Official traffic signs
   
22-1-21   Operator
   
22-1-22   Outside lane
   
22-1-23   Park, parked, or parking
   
22-1-24   Parking meter
   
22-1-25   Parking space
   
22-1-26   Pedestrian
   
22-1-27   Person
   
22-1-28   Police officer or traffic officer
   
22-1-29   Private driveways
   
22-1-30   Private property
   
22-1-31   Public property
   
22-1-32   Railroad crossing
   
22-1-33   Residence district
   
22-1-34   Right-of-way
   
22-1-35   Safety zone
   
22-1-36   Sidewalk and sidewalk space
   
22-1-37   Snowmobile
   
22-1-38   Stop sign
   
22-1-39   Street
   
22-1-40   Street; arterial
   
22-1-41   Street; collector
   
22-1-42   Street; one-way
   
22-1-43   Traffic
   
22-1-44   Traffic-control signal
   
22-1-45   U-turn
   
22-1-46   Vehicle
   
22-1-47   Visually handicapped persons
   
22-1-48   Watchperson
§ 22-1-1 GENERALLY.
   Any of the terms defined in subsequent sections of this article shall have
the meaning, when used in any article of this chapter, which is given the term
in the definition in this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-2 ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   (A)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if:
      (1)   Left unattended, with no license plates or valid in-transit decals
issued pursuant to state law affixed thereto, for more than six hours on any
public property;
      (2)   Left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public property,
except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   Left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking of such
vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
      (4)   Left unattended for more than seven days on private property if
left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission of the
owner is terminated; or
      (5)   Left for more than 30 days in the custody of a law enforcement
agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered owner under §
22-9-10 of this chapter.
   (B)   For purpose of this section:
      (1)   PUBLIC PROPERTY means any public right-of-way, street, highway,
alley, or park or other state, county, or municipally-owned property;
      (2)   PRIVATE PROPERTY means any privately-owned property which is not
included within the definition of public property; and
      (3)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431 or any
amendment thereto shall be an abandoned vehicle under this section.
(Ord. 3627, passed - -1999)
§ 22-1-3 ALLEY.
   ALLEY. Every way set apart for public use within a block for local
convenience, except foot paths and streets.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-4 ALLEY ENTRANCE.
   ALLEY ENTRANCE. The extension of the alley from the lot line to the street
curb line.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-4.1 REPEALED.
§ 22-1-5 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department and Police
Department (including ambulances) and other ambulances licensed by the Nebraska
Department of Health.
(Ord. 3133, passed - -1989)
§ 22-1-6 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The area contiguous to a street when 50% or more of the
frontage for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for
business.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-7 CITY DELIVERY TRUCK.
   CITY DELIVERY TRUCK. A motor truck vehicle (except an exempt truck vehicle):
      (1)   Which does not exceed 35 feet in length and the licensed gross
weight of which does not exceed 30,000 pounds; and
      (2)   When used to transport commodities, goods, merchandise, produce, or
freight from or to business establishments within the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2286, passed - -1977)
§ 22-1-8 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any motor truck vehicle or trailer or combinations
thereof used or designed for the transportation of commodities, goods,
merchandise, produce, or freight and having a licensed carrying capacity or a
rated load capacity of more than two tons.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-9 CROSSWALK.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway included within a projection of the curb
line and a projection of the lot line at a street intersection, or any portion
of a street clearly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines, gutter bridges,
or markings on the surface.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-10 CURB.
   CURB. A curb as constructed or curb line.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-11 DRIVER OR OPERATOR.
   DRIVER or OPERATOR. Any person who is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-12 EXEMPT TRUCK VEHICLE.
   EXEMPT TRUCK VEHICLE. Any single-axle pickup truck, van, or panel truck the
factory rated axle capacity of which does not exceed one and one-half tons.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2389, passed - -1978)
§ 22-1-13 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON; TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED
PERSON.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, and any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his
or her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs. Temporarily handicapped or disabled persons shall mean any
handicapped or disabled person whose personal mobility is expected to be
limited in such manner for no more than one year.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§ 22-1-14 INSIDE LANE.
   INSIDE LANE. The lane next to the center of the street in any four-lane
street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-15 INTERSECTION.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if there are no lateral curb lines, the lateral
boundary lines of two or more streets which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon
different streets joining at any other angle may come in conflict. The junction
of an alley with a street shall not constitute in INTERSECTION.
§ 22-1-16 LEGAL HOLIDAY.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY.
      (1)   Any of the following dates or holidays: January 1, the last Monday
in May, Independence Day, Labor Day, November 11, Thanksgiving Day, and
December 25.
      (2)   Provided, if any such holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday
shall be deemed to be a LEGAL HOLIDAY.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-17 LICENSE GROSS WEIGHT.
   LICENSE GROSS WEIGHT. The sum of:
      (1)   The empty weights of a truck, semi-trailer or tractor-trailer
combination; and
      (2)   The weight of the maximum load to be carried by such unit at any
one time.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2286, passed - -1977)
§ 22-1-18 LOADING ZONE.
   LOADING ZONE. A place designed as a place for the loading and unloading of
freight, materials, or merchandise and suitably marked as to indicate its use
for such purposes.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-19 MOTOR TRUCK VEHICLE.
   MOTOR TRUCK VEHICLE. All motor trucks used or designed for the
transportation of commodities, goods, merchandise, produce or freight, pick-up
trucks, panel trucks, transportation trucks, and commercial trucks and trailers
used or designed for use by attachment to a motor-propelled towing vehicle,
including so-called tractor-trucks and semi-trailer combinations, regardless of
whether such trailer be attached or unattached to tractor unit.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-20 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS. All signs, markings, and devices, other than
signals, not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of
the City Council, or other public body or officer having jurisdiction, for the
purpose of guiding, directing, warning, or regulating traffic.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-21 OPERATOR.
   OPERATOR. Every person who shall operate a vehicle as the owner thereof, or
as the agent, employee, or permittee of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-22 OUTSIDE LANE.
   OUTSIDE LANE. The lane next to the curb in any four-lane street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-23 PARK, PARKED, OR PARKING.
   PARK, PARKED, or PARKING. Any vehicle waiting or standing in any street or
alley except when such vehicle is waiting or standing in compliance with a
traffic sign or signal or the direction of a traffic officer, or because of a
driving emergency.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-24 PARKING METER.
   PARKING METER. An upright mechanical device located at or near the curb or
curb line immediately adjacent to a parking space in the street or public way,
constructed with a coin receptacle and a sign or signal showing the length of
time a vehicle is parked in such parking space.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-25 PARKING SPACE.
   PARKING SPACE. The area in a street next to the curb of a width sufficient
to park an automobile either parallel or diagonally as provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-26 PEDESTRIAN.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-27 PERSON.
   PERSON. Every natural person, and every firm, co-partnership, association,
and corporation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-28 POLICE OFFICER OR TRAFFIC OFFICER.
   POLICE OFFICER or TRAFFIC OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department of
the city, or any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or make
arrests for the violation of traffic regulations.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-29 PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-30 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately-owned property that is not included within
the definition of public property.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-31 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other property owned by the city or in its possession as lessee.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-32 RAILROAD CROSSING.
   RAILROAD CROSSING. The part of any street that is crossed by the tracks of a
railroad or railway company, including, also, the part of such street that is
within 25 feet of the nearest track rail crossing such street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-33 RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The area contiguous to a street, not comprising a
business district, when the frontage on such street for a distance of 300 feet
or more is mainly occupied by dwellings and buildings not in use for business.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-34 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-35 SAFETY ZONE.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space set apart by the city within a street for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times as being set
apart as a safety zone.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-36 SIDEWALK AND SIDEWALK SPACE.
   SIDEWALK and SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of the street between the curb
line, or the lateral line of the roadway, and the adjacent property line, and
intended for the use of pedestrians.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-37 SNOWMOBILE.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled motor vehicle designed to travel on snow, ice,
or a natural terrain; steered by wheels, skis, or runners; and propelled by a
belt-driven track with or without steel cleats.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2498, passed - -1979)
§ 22-1-38 STOP SIGN.
   STOP SIGN. The standard stop sign used in the state.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-39 STREET.
   STREET. Every way set apart for public travel, including avenues, roads,
bridges, and public highways and public places used for the passage of
vehicles, except alleys.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-40 STREET; ARTERIAL.
   STREET; ARTERIAL. A street used primarily for fast-moving or heavy vehicular
traffic.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-41 STREET; COLLECTOR.
   STREET; COLLECTOR. A street carrying vehicular traffic from minor streets to
an arterial street. The term shall include principal entrance streets of, and
streets for the circulation of vehicular traffic within, a residential
development.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-42 STREET; ONE-WAY.
   STREET; ONE-WAY. A street or, as the case may be, a segment of a street on
which vehicles may lawfully be operated in only one direction.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-43 TRAFFIC.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrian, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street, alley, or
private driveway for the purpose of traveling. TRAFFIC shall also be construed
to mean and include the operators of vehicles.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-44 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether operated manually, electrically,
or mechanically, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-45 U-TURN.
   U-TURN. The act of turning a vehicle so as to proceed immediately in the
opposite direction of travel from the direction of travel prior to making the
turn.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-46 VEHICLE.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a public street, including all types of motor
vehicles. VEHICLE shall also be construed to include and mean the driver or
operator thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-1-47 VISUALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   VISUALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS. Persons using a white cane or guide dog.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2537, passed - -1979)
§ 22-1-48 WATCHPERSON.
   WATCHPERSON. Any person stationed upon a railroad crossing for the purpose
of directing traffic or vehicles over such crossing, whether employed by the
city as a police officer or by the railroad company as a crossing watchperson.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
ARTICLE 2: OPERATION OF VEHICLES
Section
Starting, Turning, and Stopping
   
22-2-1   Starting; backing and turning from curb; yielding right-of-way
   
22-2-2   Same; from curb; signaling
   
22-2-3   Entering street from alley, private driveway, or road; yielding right-
of-way
   
22-2-4   Entering through street; at intersection; after stop; yielding right-
of-way
   
22-2-5   Turning; changing course; stopping; caution; required
   
22-2-6   Same; decreasing speed; stopping; signaling; required; when
   
22-2-7   Same; signals; manner
   
22-2-8   Intersections; unmarked lanes; turns
   
22-2-9   Same; multiple lanes; marking
   
22-2-10   Same; multiple lanes; turns
   
22-2-11   Turn restrictions; resolutions
   
22-2-12   Same; West Railway Street; southeast bound traffic; right lane
   
22-2-13   Same; West Railway Street; southeast bound traffic; left lane
   
22-2-14   U-turns; limitation
   
22-2-15   Crossing street; prohibited; exceptions
   
22-2-16   Multiple lanes; operation within
   
22-2-17   Stop signs; streets; alleys
   
22-2-18   Same; erection
   
22-2-19   Same; stopping vehicles at; required
   
22-2-20   Same; Broadway Avenue and West Railway Street intersection;
southbound traffic
   
22-2-21   Pedestrian crossings; marking
   
22-2-22   Same; stopping; operation of vehicle
   
22-2-23   Reserved
   
22-2-24   Traffic signals; erection; operation
   
22-2-25   Same; stopping; turning; precautions
   
22-2-26   Same; turns; directional arrows; obedience required
   
22-2-27   Same; pedestrians; entering intersections
   
22-2-28   Crossing sidewalk; stopping; warning; caution; required
   
22-2-29 – 22-2-35   Reserved
Following and Overtaking
   
22-2-36   Following another vehicle; safe distance; required
   
22-2-37   Overtaking vehicle; crossing centerline; restrictions
   
22-2-38   Same; side; restrictions
   
22-2-39   Overtaken vehicle; yielding right-of-way; increasing speed prohibited
   
22-2-40   Driving abreast; prohibited; exceptions
   
22-2-41   Overtaking; at intersections; railroad crossing; prohibited;
exceptions
   
22-2-42 – 22-2-45   Reserved
Meeting
   
22-2-46   Oncoming vehicles; passing; to right
   
22-2-47   Intersections; vehicles; right-of-way
   
22-2-48   Same; particular streets and intersections
   
22-2-49   Pedestrian crosswalks; pedestrians; right-of-way
   
22-2-50   Pedestrians; jay-walking; vehicles; right-of-way
   
22-2-51 – 22-2-54   Reserved
Speed
   
22-2-55   General restriction; reasonableness; prudence
   
22-2-56   Particular streets; speed limits; creation; authorized
   
22-2-57   Same; marking
   
22-2-58   Near schools; limit
   
22-2-59   Alleys; limit
   
22-2-60   Racing vehicles; prohibited
   
22-2-61   Unlawful speed; right-of-way; forfeited
   
22-2-62 – 22-2-64   Reserved
Three-Lane Streets
   
22-2-65   Three-lane streets; designated; marking
Four-Lane Streets
   
22-2-66   Four-lane streets; designated; marking
   
22-2-67   Double yellow line; crossing; prohibited; exceptions
   
22-2-68   White line; driving astraddle; restriction
   
22-2-69   Overtaking vehicles; requirements
   
22-2-70   Right and left turns; restrictions
   
22-2-71– 22-2-74   Reserved
Five-Lane Streets
   
22-2-75   Five-lane streets; designated; marking
   
22-2-76   Same; inside and outside lanes; turns
   
22-2-77   Same; center lane and turns
Through Streets
   
22-2-78   Through streets; designated
   
22-2-79 – 22-2-82   Reserved
Commercial Vehicle Routes
   
22-2-83   Commercial vehicle routes; designated; marking
   
22-2-84   Same; operation; moving
   
22-2-85   City delivery trucks; routes
   
22-2-86   Same; operation
   
22-2-87 – 22-2-90   Reserved
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
22-2-91   One-way streets and alleys; resolutions; marking
   
22-2-92   One-way streets and alleys; prohibitions
   
22-2-93 – 22-2-95    Reserved
Special Regulations for Semi-Public Places
Part 1. General Provisions
   
22-2-96   No parking and fire lane zones; prohibitions
   
22-2-97   Other traffic regulations
Part 2. Scottsbluff School District
   
22-2-98   School District premises; parking; request
   
22-2-99   Drawing; Senior High School
   
22-2-100   Drawing; Middle School
   
22-2-101   No parking, loading, and handicappeds’ parking and fire lane zones;
established
   
22-2-102   Signs
   
22-2-103 – 22-2-106   Reserved
Part 3. Western Nebraska Community College Area
   
22-2-107   Off-street parking; regulations
   
22-2-108   No parking, loading, and handicappeds’ parking zones; established
   
22-2-109   No parking zones; marking
   
22-2-110   Pedestrian crosswalks; established; marking
   
22-2-111   Reserved
Part 4. Other Places
   
22-2-112   McDonald’s Restaurant turn restriction while exiting from parking
lot; request
   
22-2-113   Arby’s Restaurant turn restriction while existing from parking lot;
request
   
22-2-114   Regional West Medical Center; traffic operation and speed of motor
vehicles on Rugger Drive; request
   
22-2-115 – 22-2-117   Reserved
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
22-2-118   Keeping to right; generally
   
22-2-119   Slowly moving vehicles; keeping to right; generally
   
22-2-120   Backing; caution; required
   
22-2-121   Public and crowded places; approaching
   
22-2-122   Emergency vehicles; article; not applicable to; exceptions
   
22-2-123   Same; right-of-way; other vehicles; stop; required
   
22-2-124   Funeral processions; driving through; prohibited; exceptions
   
22-2-125   Coasting; in neutral gear; on down grades; prohibited
   
22-2-126   Careless driving; prohibited
   
22-2-127   Reckless driving; prohibited
   
22-2-128   Same; indifferent and wanton disregard
   
22-2-129   Same; willful disregard
   
22-2-130   Careless, reckless, and willful reckless driving; applicability of
provisions; where
   
22-2-131   Accidents; stopping vehicle; information; aid; report; required
   
22-2-132   Unnecessary smoke, gas, steam, and odors; prohibited
STARTING, TURNING, AND STOPPING
§ 22-2-1 STARTING; BACKING AND TURNING FROM CURB; YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Where a vehicle is parked in a diagonal parking space, so identified by
lines on the pavement, it shall be unlawful to cause the vehicle to leave the
space otherwise than by backing into the parked in a parallel parking space, so
identified by lines on the pavement, it shall be unlawful to cause the vehicle
to leave the space otherwise than by making a left turn from the space into the
lane of traffic immediately at the left. The operator of a vehicle standing at
or along the curb or side of the street and about to enter a lane of traffic in
the street shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in such lane, and shall
not cause or permit the vehicle to enter the lane unless such movement will not
slow the speed of vehicles in the lane.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2468, passed - -1979)
§ 22-2-2 SAME; FROM CURB; SIGNALING.
   No vehicle standing at or along the curb or side of any street shall start
or turn from such curb or side of the street until the driver shall have given
a signal which can be plainly seen from the rear of such vehicle and from the
side toward which he or she is about to turn, which signal shall be by signal
lights or by extending the left arm to the left of and beyond the vehicle, with
the hand and forearm extending horizontally and at right angles to the vehicle.
§ 22-2-3 ENTERING STREET FROM ALLEY, PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, OR ROAD; YIELDING RIGHT-
OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle entering a street from an alley or a private
driveway or road shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles on such street,
and shall not enter such street unless able to do so without slowing the speed
of vehicles upon such street.
§ 22-2-4 ENTERING THROUGH STREET; AT INTERSECTION; AFTER STOP; YIELDING RIGHT-
OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching any street at an intersection having a
stop sign, after having stopped such vehicle at such stop sign, shall yield the
right-of-way to every vehicle using the approached street, regardless of
direction of travel and regardless of whether the latter vehicle is approaching
from the left or right of the first-mentioned vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1539, passed - -1965)
§ 22-2-5 TURNING; CHANGING COURSE; STOPPING; CAUTION; REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle, before turning, changing the course of, or stopping
such vehicle shall see that there is sufficient space within which to do so in
safety.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-6 SAME; DECREASING SPEED; STOPPING; SIGNALING; REQUIRED; WHEN.
   If any pedestrian may be affected by the turning or changing of course of a
vehicle, the driver of such vehicle shall give a clearly audible signal by
sounding the horn. Whenever another vehicle may be affected by such movement or
by a sudden decrease in speed or stopping of a vehicle, the driver of such
latter vehicle shall give an unmistakable signal of his or her intention to
make such movement or to suddenly decrease the speed of or stop such vehicle,
which signal shall be given in the manner prescribed in §
22-2-7 of this subchapter; provided, such signal shall not be required at
intersections controlled by traffic-control signals or by traffic officers.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-7 SAME; SIGNALS; MANNER.
   (A)   The visual signals required by §
22-2-6 of this subchapter shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in
the following manner:
      (1)   For left turn, by extending the arm and hand horizontally;
      (2)   For right turn, by extending the arm and hand upward; or
      (3)   For stop or decrease of speed, by extending arm and hand downward.
   (B)   Provided, turn signal lights of a type approved by the State
Department of Roads may be used in lieu of the arm to indicate right or left
turns. The signals of intention to turn left or right shall be commenced when
the vehicle is not less than 50 feet from the turning point, and shall be
continued until the vehicle has completed the turn.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-8 INTERSECTIONS; UNMARKED LANES; TURNS.
   Vehicles approaching an intersection on a street which has no marked traffic
lanes, or has only a median line shall:
   (A)   For purposes of making a right turn onto the intersecting street,
approach the intersection as near as is reasonably practicable to the curb or
side of the street to the right; or
   (B)   For purposes of making a left turn onto the intersecting street,
approach the intersection as near as is reasonably practicable to the center of
the street and, while turning to the left within the intersection, shall
whenever practicable, make the turn in that portion of the intersection to the
left of the center of the intersection. The center of the intersection means,
for purposes of this section, the point at which the median lines of the
intersecting streets (whether marked or unmarked) intersect.
(Ord. 2909, passed - -1985)
§ 22-2-9 SAME; MULTIPLE LANES; MARKING.
   (A)   In the case of an intersection, some or all of the approaches to which
are sufficiently wide to permit the marking of multiple lanes for traffic
approaching the intersection in the same direction, the City Council, whenever
it shall by resolution determine that the public safety, convenience, or
welfare require or warrant, may, by resolution, direct that one or more of the
approaches be marked by lines on the pavement designating two or more lanes for
traffic approaching the intersection in the same direction or, as the case may
be, that one or more of the approaches be so marked and that an area within the
intersection also be marked to designate the direction in which vehicles shall
move after entering the intersection.
   (B)   In such circumstances and manner, the City Council may further direct
that the pavement be marked with directional arrows, or that signs be erected
so as to be readily observed by traffic approaching in such lanes, which direct
that:
      (1)   Traffic in the right lane shall make only a right turn or, as the
case may be, shall move straight ahead, or either;
      (2)   Traffic in the left lane shall make only a left turn or, as the
case may be, move straight ahead, or either; and
      (3)   In the case of three lanes, that traffic in the center lane turn
only, or move straight ahead, as designated in the resolution.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2468, passed - -1979)
§ 22-2-10 SAME; MULTIPLE LANES; TURNS.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked as provided in this article, it shall
be unlawful to cause or permit a vehicle to enter or be operated within the
intersection otherwise than wholly within one of the lanes so marked, and in
the, or a, direction shown by such arrows or signs, if any. If parking spaces,
whether parallel or diagonal, have been marked on the pavement, and the
pavement area between the crosswalk, or the crosswalk area, and the nearest
such parking space shall have been cross-marked by parallel yellow lines, it
shall be unlawful to park or operate a vehicle within such pavement area.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2468, passed - -1979)
§ 22-2-11 TURN RESTRICTIONS; RESOLUTIONS.
   Whenever the City Council determines that the public safety, convenience, or
welfare requires or warrants restrictions in turns at certain intersections, it
may adopt, by resolution, the prohibition of right and/or left turns at those
intersections. The intersections affected shall have appropriate signs in place
which indicate “no left turn”, “no right turn”, or “no turns”, as are
appropriate to direct traffic at the intersection according to the prohibitions
specified in the resolution(s).
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1944, passed - -1972; Ord. 3170, passed - -
1990)
§ 22-2-12 SAME; WEST RAILWAY STREET; SOUTHEASTBOUND TRAFFIC; RIGHT LANE.
   A sign shall be erected on the southwest side of the West Railway Street at
a point adjacent to the intersection of the southwest curb of such street with
the west curb of Broadway Avenue, so as to be read and obeyed by traffic
approaching the intersection within the right-hand lane of the lanes for
southeastbound traffic on traffic on West Railway Street. Such sign shall bear
an arrow directing a right turn, followed by the word “only”, or words or
symbols of similar meaning. The operator of every vehicle, upon entering the
intersection, shall, unless otherwise directed by a traffic officer, cause the
vehicle to make a right turn on Broadway Avenue and proceed only in a southerly
direction to the intersection of Broadway Avenue and West Overland Drive.
(Ord. 2625, passed - -1980)
§ 22-2-13 SAME; WEST RAILWAY STREET; SOUTHEASTBOUND TRAFFIC; LEFT LANE.
   A sign shall be erected on the median in West Railway Street at a point
adjacent to the intersection of that street and Broadway Avenue, so as to be
read and obeyed by traffic approaching the intersection within the left-hand
lane of the lanes for southeastbound traffic on West Railway Street. Such sign
shall bear the words “East 14th Street or East Railway Street only”, or words
or symbols of similar meaning. The operator of every vehicle, upon entering the
intersection, shall cause the vehicle to proceed across the intersection and
therefrom to enter and proceed in the eastbound lane of East 14th Street or in
an eastbound lane of East Railway Street.
(Ord. 2625, passed - -1980)
§ 22-2-14 U-TURNS; LIMITATION.
   No vehicle shall make a U-turn upon any curve, or upon the approach to or
near the crest of a grade where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of
any other vehicle approaching from either direction within 500 feet, nor at any
place where the City Council, whenever it shall by resolution determine that
the public safety, convenience, or welfare require or warrant, by resolution,
may designate streets or parts of streets where such turns are prohibited and
prohibit such turns by signs.
§ 22-2-15 CROSSING STREET; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be turned so as to cross from one side of the street
to the other, except:
      (1)   When turning left at a street intersection or into or from an
alley, private road, or driveway (unless prohibited by signs); or
      (2)   As provided in this section.
   (B)   Provided, the City Council, whenever it shall, by resolution,
determine that the public safety, convenience, or welfare require or warrant,
by resolution, may designate streets or parts of streets on which such excepted
turning is prohibited. This section shall not apply to U-turns.
(Ord. 3133, passed - -1989)
§ 22-2-16 MULTIPLE LANES; OPERATION WITHIN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit any vehicle that is being
operated on a street on which are marked multiple lanes for traffic moving in
the same direction to operate the vehicle, or any part thereof, in more than
one such lane simultaneously except while entering or leaving one such lane as
authorized in this article.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit any vehicle that is being
operated on such a street to change the course of travel of the vehicle from
one such lane to another unless:
      (1)   The vehicle during such change remains at least 35 feet distant
from all other vehicles traveling in the same direction; and
      (2)   In addition, the operator shall have signaled his or her intention
to change by use of a turn signal light of a type approved by the State
Department of Roads.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-2-17 STOP SIGNS; STREETS; ALLEYS.
   (A)   Stop signs shall be erected at:
      (1)   All street entrances to arterial streets, except entrances from
arterial streets and entrances where traffic-control signals are located;
      (2)   All street entrances to collector streets, except entrances from
collector streets and arterial streets and entrances where traffic-control
signals are located; and
      (3)   Such other entrances to streets from streets, and such entrances to
streets from alleys, as the City Council, whenever it shall determine, by
resolution, that the public safety, convenience, or welfare requires or
warrants, by resolution, may designate.
   (B)   Provided, stop signs shall be erected at such entrances to arterial
streets from arterial streets, and such entrances to collector streets and
arterial streets, as the City Council, whenever it shall determine, by
resolution, that the public safety, convenience, or welfare requires or
warrants, by resolution, may designate.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2195, passed - -1976)
§ 22-2-18 SAME; ERECTION.
   The stop signs to which reference is made in this article shall be erected
on the right side of the street on which traffic enters the intersection, or of
the alley, as near as may be to the point at which a projection of the boundary
line of the street to be entered intersects the curb line or, in the absence of
a curb, the improved or traveled portion, of the street or alley on which
traffic enters the intersection, and so as to be read and obeyed by traffic on
the latter street or alley. Provided, if the City Council, by resolution, shall
determine that the public safety, convenience, or welfare so requires, the City
Council, by resolution, may authorize a particular stop sign to be erected in a
different location to be described in the resolution, and in such resolution,
also may specify such related structures or equipment, if any, as in the
judgment of the City Council, shall be installed in the interest of public
safety, convenience, or welfare.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2195, passed - -1976)
§ 22-2-19 SAME; STOPPING VEHICLE AT; REQUIRED.
   The operator of every vehicle, upon approaching any stop sign from the
direction toward which the
sign faces and before passing the sign, shall, unless otherwise directed by a
traffic officer, cause the vehicle to come to a complete stop, with the front
end of the vehicle parallel to or even with the sign.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1168, passed - -1958)
§ 22-2-20 SAME; BROADWAY AVENUE AND WEST RAILWAY STREET INTERSECTION;
SOUTHBOUND TRAFFIC.
   A sign shall be erected on the west side of Broadway Avenue at a point north
of and adjacent to the point where the west curb of such avenue is joined to
the northeast curb of West Railway Street, so as to be read and obeyed by
southbound traffic on Broadway Avenue approaching that intersection. Such sign
shall bear the words “stop here when railroad crossing signal flashing” or
words of similar meaning. The operator of every vehicle, upon approaching such
sign, shall, unless otherwise directed by a traffic officer, cause the vehicle
to come to a complete stop with the front end not extending beyond an easterly
extension of the face of the sign, and shall cause the vehicle to remain in
such position until the railroad crossing barrier over the southbound lanes on
Broadway Avenue shall lift.
(Ord. 2625, passed - -1980)
§ 22-2-21 PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS; MARKING.
   The City Council, whenever it shall, by resolution, determine that the
public safety, convenience, or welfare require or warrant, may order that
certain pedestrian crossings on streets, avenues, and alleys of the city be
marked by markings on the pavement, if any, and by pedestrian crossing signs.
The sign, if for a school crossing, shall read “school crossing” or be the
uniform sign for school crossings prescribed by the Nebraska Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways issued by the State Department
of Roads or, if for another type of pedestrian crossing, shall be the uniform
sign for pedestrian crossings prescribed by such manual. Such signs shall be
erected on the right side of the street or alley as near as may be to the curb
line, or, if there is no curb, to the boundary of the improved or traveled
portion of the street or alley, and so as to be read and obeyed by traffic
approaching the pedestrian sidewalk.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2543, passed - -1979)
§ 22-2-22 SAME; STOPPING; OPERATION OF VEHICLE.
   The operator of every vehicle, upon approaching any sign marked as a
pedestrian (whether school or other pedestrian) crossing from the direction
toward which the sign faces and before passing the sign, shall, unless
otherwise directed by a traffic officer, cause the vehicle to come to a
complete stop with the front end of the vehicle parallel to or even with the
sign, whenever any pedestrian is within a pedestrian crossing area that has
been designated as provided in this article, and shall not cause or permit
movement of the vehicle to resume until all pedestrians shall have passed
outside of such area.
(Ord. 2623, passed - -1980)
§ 22-2-23 RESERVED.
§ 22-2-24 TRAFFIC SIGNALS; ERECTION; OPERATION.
   Electrically operated traffic-control signals:
   (A)   Equipped with red, yellow, and green lights (which latter may contain
directional arrows regulating left or right turns or forward movement by
vehicles); or
   (B)   As the case may be, specially regulating pedestrian traffic, shall be
erected and operated at such street intersections as the City Council, by
resolution, shall determine that traffic safety or the expediting of traffic
requires. Provided, such equipment shall not authorize turns that are
prohibited by other sections of this article, or as a result of resolutions
adopted pursuant to other sections of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2172, passed - -1976)
§ 22-2-25 SAME; STOPPING; TURNING; PRECAUTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle approaching any intersection at which there is a
traffic-control signal to cause or permit such vehicle to enter the
intersection while the traffic-control signal light facing the traffic so
approaching traffic is steady red or steady yellow, such traffic shall stop and
shall not enter the intersection until the light has changed to green;
provided, traffic facing a steady red light may, except at intersections at
which are signs prohibiting a right turn on a red light, cautiously enter the
intersection to make a right turn after coming to a complete stop and yielding
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to
other traffic lawfully using the intersection. If the light is flashing red
only, traffic facing the light shall come to a complete stop and, after
yielding the right-of-way to pedestrians with an adjacent crosswalk and to
other traffic using the intersection, may cautiously enter the intersection. If
the light is flashing yellow only, traffic facing the light shall approach and
enter the intersection with extreme caution, and the general rules as to right-
of-way in the intersection shall be applicable. Provided, further, every
operator of a vehicle, notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions of this
section, shall comply fully with directions or orders given by a traffic
officer.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1925, passed - -1972)
§ 22-2-26 SAME; TURNS; DIRECTIONAL ARROWS; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle at an intersection at
which there is a traffic-control signal containing automatic directional arrows
prohibiting or regulating forward movement or left or right turns by vehicles
to operate the vehicle in any manner otherwise than as indicated by such
arrows. Provided, every operator of a vehicle, notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this section, shall comply fully with directions given by a
traffic officer.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1306, passed 4-10-1961)
§ 22-2-27 SAME; PEDESTRIANS; ENTERING INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter an intersection at
which there is a traffic-control signal while the traffic-control signal light
facing the traffic approaching the intersection from the same direction is not
green. If the light facing approaching traffic is red or yellow, pedestrians
shall stop and not enter the intersection until the light has changed to green.
   (B)   Provided, if the traffic-control signal contains a light specially
regulating pedestrian traffic, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter
the intersection otherwise than as directed by such light. Provided, further,
every pedestrian, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section,
shall comply fully with directions given by a traffic officer.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1306, passed 4-10-1961)
§ 22-2-28 CROSSING SIDEWALK; STOPPING; WARNING; CAUTION; REQUIRED.
   All vehicles, before crossing a sidewalk when emerging from any building,
alley, filling station, or other place, shall come to a complete stop, and
after giving sufficient warning, may proceed slowly with extreme caution while
crossing such sidewalk. The term “slowly” shall be construed to mean such rate
of speed as is reasonable and proper under the circumstances and condition of
the street and the traffic within the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§§ 22-2-29 – 22-2-35 RESERVED.
FOLLOWING AND OVERTAKING
§ 22-2-36 FOLLOWING ANOTHER VEHICLE; SAFE DISTANCE; REQUIRED.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of such vehicle and
the traffic upon and the condition of the street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-37 OVERTAKING VEHICLES; CROSSING CENTERLINE; RESTRICTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive to the left side of the centerline
of a street in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or a vehicle parked at the curb, unless such left side is clearly
visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to
permit such overtaking and passing to be made in safety.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-38 SAME; SIDE; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, when overtaking and passing another vehicle,
may do so only to the left of the latter vehicle, except as otherwise provided
herein. The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or is about to make a left
turn and a lane is available on the street for the through movement; or
      (2)   Upon a street with unobstructed pavement not occupied by parked
vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in each
direction.
   (B)   Provided, the driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another
vehicle, whether on the left or on the right, only under conditions permitting
such movement in safety.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1723, passed - -1968)
§ 22-2-39 OVERTAKEN VEHICLE; YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY; INCREASING SPEED
PROHIBITED.
   When the driver of a vehicle about to pass another vehicle traveling in the
same direction has sounded a clearly audible horn, the driver of the vehicle
about to be passed shall, unless the street is a four-lane street, turn to the
right in favor of the overtaking vehicle, and the driver of the vehicle about
to be passed shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until the
overtaking vehicle has completed passing and has returned to the lane of
traffic.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-40 DRIVING ABREAST; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any two or more vehicles to be driven abreast,
except when passing or except on a street which has four or more lanes.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-41 OVERTAKING; AT INTERSECTIONS; RAILROAD CROSSINGS; PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   Except in four-lane streets, no vehicle shall pass, or attempt to pass,
another vehicle going in the same direction while traversing any street
intersection or at any railroad crossing, unless directed so to do by a traffic
or police officer.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§§ 22-2-42 – 22-2-45 RESERVED.
MEETING
§ 22-2-46 ONCOMING VEHICLES; PASSING; TO RIGHT.
   Vehicles moving in opposite directions shall pass each other by keeping to
the right.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-47 INTERSECTIONS; VEHICLES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately the
same time and the paths of such vehicles on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right, unless otherwise directed by a traffic
officer. The driver of a vehicle who intends to turn left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard.
Provided, the operator of a vehicle approaching on a street or alley an
intersection to which a yield sign pertains shall yield the right-of-way to
every vehicle using the intersecting street, regardless of direction of travel
and regardless of whether the latter vehicle is approaching from the left or
right of the first-mentioned vehicle.
(Ord. 2717, passed 1-25-1982)
§ 22-2-48 SAME; PARTICULAR STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS.
   The City Council, whenever it shall determine by resolution that the public
safety, convenience, or welfare requires or warrants, by resolution, may
designate streets, or parts of streets, on which vehicles shall have the right-
of-way over vehicles traveling on intersecting streets. Appropriate signs with
the words “yield” printed thereon shall be erected on the right side of the
intersecting street at a point not to exceed 30 feet from the point of
intersection of such street with the nearest boundary line of the street on
which vehicles have the right-of-way, and so as to be read and obeyed by
traffic on the intersecting street approaching the intersection.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1723, passed - -1968)
§ 22-2-49 PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS; PEDESTRIANS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing such street within any crosswalk or at any regular
pedestrian crosswalk at the end of a block, except when directed otherwise by
traffic-control signals.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-50 PEDESTRIANS; JAY-WALKING; VEHICLES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any pedestrian who shall cross a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk, or street intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street. Compliance with this section shall not excuse
noncompliance by such pedestrian with the section of this chapter prohibiting
pedestrians from crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian
crossing, crosswalk, or street intersection.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§§ 22-2-51 – 22-2-54 RESERVED.
SPEED
§ 22-2-55 GENERAL RESTRICTION; REASONABLENESS; PRUDENCE.
   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or alley within the city at
a speed greater than that which is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
and circumstances then existing. Nothing contained in any other provision of
this chapter shall be construed to permit any speed in excess of the limits
described by this section.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1723, passed - -1968)
§ 22-2-56 PARTICULAR STREETS; SPEED LIMITS; CREATION; AUTHORIZED.
   The City Council, whenever it shall determine by resolution that the public
safety, convenience, or welfare require or warrant, by resolution, may
establish the maximum speeds at which motor vehicles may be operated on
particular streets, or parts of streets, within the city. It shall be unlawful
for any person to operate a motor vehicle on a street or part of a street in
excess of the maximum speed limit so established.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2195, passed - -1976)
§ 22-2-57 SAME; MARKING.
   Appropriate signs showing the maximum speed limit as established pursuant to
this article shall be erected next to the curb in a conspicuous position on the
streets, or parts of streets, in respect of which such speed limit has been
established. Provided, this section shall not be construed to require the
erection of such signs on streets, or parts of streets, in respect of which
there has been established a maximum speed limit which is the same as a maximum
speed limit prescribed for such street, or part of street, by state law.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2195, passed - -1976)
§ 22-2-58 NEAR SCHOOLS; LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which elementary or middle school buildings are located and which are used for
school purposes, during school recess or while children are going to and from
school during opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle past the premises
at a rate of speed in excess of 15 mph.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1589, passed - -1966; Ord. 4129, passed - -
2014)
§ 22-2-59 ALLEYS; LIMITS.
   No vehicle shall be operated in any alley at a rate of speed in excess of
ten mph.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-60 RACING VEHICLES; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle upon any street,
alley, or public place of the city in a speed contest, including those commonly
known as drag races, whether from a standing start or otherwise, over a
measured or unmeasured distance, the object of which is to better or defeat one
or more contestants on the basis of elapsed time, superior performance, or
speed. The fact that the vehicle shall not have exceeded the maximum speed
limit for such street, alley, or public place shall not be a defense to a
prosecution for operating the vehicle in a speed contest.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1797, passed - -1969)
§ 22-2-61 UNLAWFUL SPEED; RIGHT-OF-WAY; FORFEITED.
   The driver of every vehicle traveling at an unlawful rate of speed shall
forfeit any right-of-way which he or she might otherwise have had under the
ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§§ 22-2-62 – 21-2-64 RESERVED.
THREE-LANE STREETS
§ 22-2-65 THREE-LANE STREETS; DESIGNATED; MARKING.
   (A)   The following streets are hereby declared to be three-lane streets:
      (1)   Avenue I, between West 20th Street and West 27th Street;
      (2)   42nd Street, between 5th Avenue and a point 900 feet east of Avenue
I;
      (3)   20th Street, between 5th Avenue and 17th Avenue; and
      (4)   5th Avenue, between 27th Street and 42nd Street.
   (B)   Such streets shall have one lane for traffic moving in each direction.
Such streets shall also have a center lane which shall be used by traffic
solely for the purpose of making left turns from the street. The center lane
shall be bounded by yellow lines indicating where left turns may be made into
and out of the center lane.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle being operated in the centerline
of a three-lane street to make a right turn onto an intersecting street or to
make a right turn between street intersections.
(Ord. 3466, passed - -1995)
FOUR-LANE STREETS
§ 22-2-66 FOUR-LANE STREETS; DESIGNATED; MARKING.
   (A)   The following parts of streets are hereby made and declared to be
four-lane streets, and shall have two contiguous lanes for traffic moving in
each direction:
      (1)   Broadway Avenue, except between West Overland Drive and 20th
Street;
      (2)   Avenue B, between South Beltline Highway and 8th Street, and
between 27th Street and 42nd Street;
      (3)   South Beltline Highway, between 1st Avenue and Avenue I;
      (4)   East Overland Drive;
      (5)   27th Street, between Avenue I and 5th Avenue;
      (6)   Avenue I between West Overland and the South Beltline Highway;
      (7)   Avenue I between West 27th Street and U.S. Highway 26; and
      (8)   21st Avenue between U.S. Highway No. 26 and East Overland.
   (B)   A double yellow line shall be painted along approximately the center
of each such part of a street, except where there are traffic islands. A white
line shall be painted between the contiguous lanes for traffic moving in the
same direction.
(Ord. 3449, passed - -1995; Ord. 4129, passed - -2014)
§ 22-2-67 DOUBLE YELLOW LINE; CROSSING; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle at any time to cross such double yellow
line except as permitted in §
22-2-15 of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2430, passed - -1978)
§ 22-2-68 WHITE LINE; DRIVING ASTRADDLE; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit any vehicle at any time to travel
astraddle of the white line dividing traffic lanes as herein above provided,
except as may be necessary for the purpose of changing from one lane to the
other as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-69 OVERTAKING VEHICLES; REQUIREMENTS.
   A vehicle traveling in a four-lane street may overtake another vehicle
traveling in such street in the same direction, to either the left or right of
the vehicle overtaken, provided such overtaking can be accomplished without
crossing the center double yellow line.
§ 22-2-70 RIGHT AND LEFT TURNS; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to turn to its right into an
intersection street from the inside lane of any four-lane street, or to turn
left into an intersecting street from the outside lane of any four-lane street.
§§ 22-2-71 – 22-2-74 RESERVED.
FIVE-LANE STREETS
§ 22-2-75 FIVE-LANE STREETS; DESIGNATED; MARKING.
   (A)   The following parts of streets are hereby made and declared to be
five-lane streets:
      (1)   Broadway Avenue, between 8th Street and West Overland Drive;
      (2)   South Beltline Highway East, between 1st Avenue and 9th Avenue;
      (3)   East 27th Street, between 5th Avenue and 21st Avenue;
      (4)   West 27th Street, between Broadway Avenue and Avenue I; and
      (5)   South Beltline Highway West, between Avenue B and Avenue I.
   (B)   Such streets shall have two contiguous lanes for traffic moving in
each direction. Such streets also shall have a center lane between the two
pairs of contiguous lanes, which shall be used by traffic solely for the
purpose of making left turns from the street. The center lane shall be bounded
by yellow lines indicating where left turns may be made into and out of the
center lane. A white line shall be painted between the contiguous lanes for
traffic moving in the same direction. Provided however, that the section of
East 27th Street between 18th Avenue and 21st Avenue will have two contiguous
lanes for eastbound traffic and one lane for westbound traffic with a center
lane for the sole purpose of making left turns.
(Ord. 3770, passed - -2003)
§ 22-2-76 SAME; INSIDE AND OUTSIDE LANES; TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle being operated in an inside lane of a
five-lane street to make a right turn onto an intersecting street, or for any
vehicle being operated in an outside lane of a five-lane street to make a left
turn onto an intersecting street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2107, passed - -1975)
§ 22-2-77 SAME; CENTER LANE AND TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to enter or leave the center lane
except at places marked for such use. It shall be unlawful for any vehicle
being operated in the center lane of a five-lane street to make a right turn
onto an intersecting street, to make a right turn between street intersections
except for the limited purpose of continuing travel in the same direction in
the abutting right lane, or to make a left turn between street intersections
except at places where permitted as indicated by yellow lines on the street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2107, passed - -1975)
THROUGH STREETS
§ 22-2-78 THROUGH STREETS; DESIGNATED.
   The City Council, whenever it shall determine, by resolution, that the
public safety, convenience, or welfare requires or warrants, by resolution, may
designate any street, or part of a street, as an arterial street, collector
street, marginal access street, or minor street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1539, passed - -1965)
§§ 21-2-79 – 21-2-82 RESERVED.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE ROUTES
§ 22-2-83 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE ROUTES; DESIGNATED; MARKING.
   The following streets and parts of streets are hereby established as routes
to be used by commercial vehicles, farm or construction machinery or equipment,
and any other machinery or equipment exceeding eight feet in width:
   (A)   Broadway Avenue south of Railway Street;
   (B)   Avenue B south of Highway 26 and north of Railway Street; for the
period of time between August 1 and November 1 of each year to accommodate bean
harvest, Avenue B south of Railway Street all the way to the South Beltline
Highway;
   (C)   Avenue I north of West 20th Street;
   (D)   5th Avenue south of East Overland Drive;
   (E)   21st Avenue south of U.S. Highway No. 26;
   (F)   5th Street and South Belt Line Road;
   (G)   East Overland Drive;
   (H)   Railway Street;
   (I)   West 20th Street west of Railway Street; and
   (J)   27th Street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 4171, passed - -2015)
§ 22-2-84 SAME; OPERATION; MOVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause or permit to
be moved any commercial vehicle (except city delivery trucks and exempt truck
vehicles), farm or construction machinery or equipment, or any other machinery
or equipment exceeding eight feet in width upon any public street, road,
highway, or alley within the city except those designated in §
22-2-83 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Provided, such vehicles, machinery, or equipment may be operated or
moved upon other streets, roads, highways, and alleys, except as prohibited in
§§
22-6-34 and
22-6-35 of this chapter, in such manner and to such extent as is reasonably
necessary for the following purposes:
      (1)   To pick up or deliver articles of merchandise at points not
otherwise prohibited;
      (2)   To refuel or secure repair services upon such vehicles, machinery,
or equipment;
      (3)   To park or place such vehicles, machinery, or equipment upon
private property; or
      (4)   To park or place such vehicles within authorized truck parking
zones or other places not otherwise prohibited. The departure from and return
to the routes designated in §
22-2-83 of this subchapter shall be by the most direct routes.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2286, passed - -1977)
§ 22-2-85 CITY DELIVERY TRUCKS; ROUTES.
   (A)   The following streets and parts of streets are hereby established as
routes to be used by city delivery trucks (except semi-trailers and tractor-
trailer combinations):
      (1)   5th Avenue north of East Overland Drive;
      (2)   Avenue B north of Railway Street;
      (3)   West 20th Street east of Railway Street; and
      (4)   East 20th Street.
   (B)   Any other street or part of street which has been established by §
22-2-115 of this article as a route to be used by commercial vehicles shall
also be a route to be used by city delivery trucks of any type.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2286, passed - -1977)
§ 22-2-86 SAME; OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any city delivery truck
upon any public street, road, highway, or alley within the city except those
designated in §
22-2-85 of this subchapter.
   (B)   Provided, such vehicles may be operated upon other streets, roads,
highways, and alleys, except as provided in §§
22-6-34 and
22-6-35 of this chapter, in such manner and to such extent as is reasonably
necessary for the following purposes:
      (1)   To pick or deliver articles or merchandise at points not otherwise
prohibited;
      (2)   To refuel or secure repair services upon such vehicles;
      (3)   To park or place the vehicle upon private property; or
      (4)   To park or place the vehicle within authorized truck parking zones
or other places not otherwise prohibited. The departure from and return to the
routes designated in § 22-2-157 of this article shall be by the most direct
routes.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2286, passed - -1977)
§§ 22-2-87 – 22-2-90 RESERVED.
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 22-2-91 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS; RESOLUTIONS; MARKING.
   Whenever the City Council determines that the public safety, convenience, or
welfare requires or warrants certain streets or alleys to be designated for
one-way travel only, it may, by resolution, prohibit the operation of vehicles
within certain streets and alleys except in the direction designated by the
resolution. In the case of alleys, any resolution may also designate certain
hours when the one-way restriction shall not apply. The intersections affected
shall have appropriate signs in place which indicate that vehicles shall travel
in the street or alley in one direction only. The signs for any alleys that are
one-way, except during certain hours, shall clearly include the hours during
which the restriction shall not apply. In the case of streets, a broken white
line shall be painted between the driving lanes of such streets.
(Ord. 3562, passed - -1997)
§ 22-2-92 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS; PROHIBITIONS.
   No vehicle shall be operated, backed, pushed, or otherwise caused to be
moved in any direction on a one-way street or alley, except in the direction
designated by the appropriate signs. This prohibition shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 3562, passed - -1997)
§§ 22-2-93 – 22-2-95 RESERVED.
SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR SEMI-PUBLIC PLACES
PART 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 22-2-96 NO PARKING AND FIRE LANE ZONES; PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing a vehicle at
any time in an area shown in the drawings in §§
22-2-99,
22-2-100, or
22-2-107 of this subchapter as a no parking zone or a fire zone.
§ 22-2-97 OTHER TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following additional traffic regulations contained in the
following other sections of this chapter as such sections were originally
enacted (if not amended), or as amended (if amended), or as added to this
chapter by amendment heretofore or hereafter shall be applicable, not only to
the public streets, alleys, and places of the city, but also to the areas
identified in the drawings in §§
22-2-99,
22-2-100, and
22-2-107 of this subchapter, as areas in which motor vehicles may be operated
or parked, or in which the operation or parking of motor vehicles is prohibited
or restricted:
Subject Section
Subject                                                Section
Drivers, occupants, and riders                         22-4-1 -
                                                       22-4-7, inclusive
Enforcement                                            22-8-1 -
                                                       22-8-9
Following                                              22-2-36 -
                                                       22-2-41, inclusive
Handicapped persons                                    22-1-13
Meeting                                                22-2-46 -
                                                       22-2-50, inclusive
Miscellaneous motor vehicle                            22-2-118 -
                                                       22-2-132, inclusive
Miscellaneous                                          22-7-1 -
                                                       22-7-5, inclusive
                                                       22-6-3,
                                                       22-6-5,
Parking                                                22-6-9, and
                                                       22-6-47 -
                                                       22-6-56, inclusive
                                                       22-2-55 -
Speed                                                  22-2-61, inclusive,
                                                       22-2-61
                                                       22-2-1 -
Starting, turning, and stopping                        22-2-9, inclusive,
                                                       22-2-21, and
                                                       22-2-28
Vehicles; size, equipment, condition, and registration 22-3-1 -
                                                       22-3-16, inclusive
Visually handicapped                                   22-1-47
 
   (B)   The provisions of Article 10, as amended, of this chapter also shall
be applicable to such areas.
PART 2. SCOTTSBLUFF SCHOOL DISTRICT
§ 22-2-98 SCHOOL DISTRICT PREMISES; PARKING; REQUEST.
   The Mayor and City Council find that:
   (A) Scottsbluff School District has, in writing, requested the City Council
to regulate and prohibit by ordinance, the operation and parking of motor
vehicles in areas shown in drawings set forth in §§
22-2-99 and
22-2-100 of this part, respectively; and
   (B)   Such areas are adjacent to school buildings owned or under the control
of the District and are so designed and constructed that motor vehicles have
been or may be parked and operated upon them.
§ 22-2-99 DRAWING; SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL.
   Follo wing are two drawi ngs to whic h refer ence is made in §
22-2-98 of this part, being a drawing of premises of the Scottsbluff Senior
High School:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0783407908d75783f018f97f9350015499280c1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.png]
 
(Ord. 3771, passed - - 2003 ; Ord. 4243 , passed 2- 19- 2019)
§ 22-2-100 DRAWING; MIDDLE SCHOOL.
   F ollowi n g is the se cond of two dr awings to which re ference is made in
section
22-2-98 of this part, being a drawing of premises of the Scottsbluff Middle
School:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0783407908d75783f018f97f9350015499280c1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.png]
 
§ 22-2-101 NO PARKING, LOADING, HANDICAPPEDS’ PARKING AND FIRE LANE ZONES;
ESTABLISHED.
   There hereby are established no parking, loading, handicappeds’ parking, and
fire lane zones in the areas of the Scottsbluff Senior High School and the
Scottsbluff Middle School which are identified as such in the drawings set
forth in §§
22-2-99 and
22-2-100 of this part, respectively. The no parking zones are the areas of
parking lots which are bounded on one side by the curb nearest a broken line
shown in the drawings and on the opposite side of a line (not shown in the
drawing) which is parallel to and 12 feet distant from such curb. Each “H”
shown in the drawings represents one parking space in a handicappeds’ parking
zone. The fire lane shall be marked by red borders with diagonal lanes
throughout such lanes whenever possible.
§ 22-2-102 SIGNS.
   The Scottsbluff School District shall at its expense construct, erect, and
maintain on or adjacent to the no parking zones and fire lane zones shown in
the drawings in §§
22-2-99 and
22-2-100 of this part, respectively, appropriate signs, with the words “no
parking” imprinted thereon, at points where the signs reasonably may be seen by
the operators of vehicles.
§§ 22-2-103 – 22-2-106 RESERVED.
PART 3. WESTERN NEBRASKA COMMUNITY COLLEGE AREA
§ 22-2-107 OFF-STREET PARKING; REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor and the City Council find that Western Nebraska Community College
Area, the owner of the campus of Western Nebraska Community College, a semi-
public place located within the city limits of the city, has requested the
Mayor and City Council to regulate the operation and parking of motor vehicles
within the areas on such campus which in the following drawing are shown as
areas in which motor vehicles may be operated or parked or, as the case may be,
areas in which the operation or parking of motor vehicles is prohibited or
restricted.
§ 22-2-108 NO PARKING, LOADING, AND HANDICAPPEDS’ PARKING ZONES; ESTABLISHED.
   There hereby are established no parking zones and ADA reserved parking areas
on the campus of Western Nebraska Community College which are identified as
such in the drawing in § 22-2-107 of this part. The no parking zones identified
in such drawing are the areas of the street which are bounded on one side by
the curb nearest a broken line shown in the drawing and on the opposite side by
a line (now shown in the drawing) which is parallel to and 12 feet distant from
such curb. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing a
vehicle at any time in any area shown in the drawing in § 22-2-107 of this part
as a no parking zone or a reserved area without the appropriate permit.
§ 22-2-109 NO PARKING ZONES; MARKING.
   The Western Nebraska Community College Area, at its expense, shall paint red
the curbs abutting each of the no parking zones referred to in § 22-2-108 of
this part and erect and maintain on or adjacent to such zones signs with the
words “no parking” imprinted thereon, which shall be so designed and be at such
locations as to be reasonably read by the operators of vehicles.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2341, passed - -1977)
§ 22-2-110 PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS; ESTABLISHED; MARKING.
   There hereby are established pedestrian crosswalks in areas on the campus of
Western Nebraska Community College which are identified as such in the drawing
in §
22-2-107 of this part. Western Nebraska Community College Area, at its expense,
shall cause such crosswalks to be marked by painting on the pavement and by
pedestrian crosswalk signs, all in accordance with the requirements for
pedestrian crosswalk markers and signs prescribed by the Nebraska Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways issued by the State
Department of Roads.
(Ord. 3380, passed - -1994)
§ 22-2-111 RESERVED.
PART 4. OTHER PLACES
§ 22-2-112 MCDONALD’S RESTAURANT; TURN RESTRICTION WHILE EXITING FROM PARKING
LOT; REQUEST.
   (A)   The owner of the McDonald’s Restaurant located at 419 West 27th
Street, a semi-public but privately-owned place located within the city, has
made written request for the city to regulate certain turns by motor vehicles
exiting from the restaurant parking lot.
   (B)   Accordingly:
      (1)   Between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m., motor vehicles
exiting from that parking lot are prohibited from turning left onto 27th
Street;
      (2)   It is understood that the exit driveway from the parking lot is
located beginning at a point which is approximately 237 feet east of the
intersection of 27th Street with the east curb line of Avenue F, and then
continuing easterly for 20 feet; and
      (3)   An appropriate sign shall be erected near the exit driveway which
indicates “no left turn - 8:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.”
(Ord. 3628, passed - -1999)
§ 22-2-113 ARBY’S RESTAURANT; TURN RESTRICTION WHILE EXITING FROM PARKING LOT;
REQUEST.
   (A)   The owner of the Arby’s Restaurant located at 601 West 27th Street, a
semi-public but privately-owned place located within the city, has made written
request for the city to regulate certain turns by motor vehicles exiting from
the restaurant parking lot.
   (B)   Accordingly:
      (1)   Between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m., motor vehicles
exiting from the parking lot are prohibited from turning left into 27th Street;
      (2)   It is understood that the exit driveway from the parking lot is
located beginning at a point which is approximately 237 feet east of the
intersection of 27th Street with the east curb line of Avenue F, and then
continuing to the easterly for 20 feet; and
      (3)   An appropriate sign shall be erected near the exit driveway which
indicates “no left turn - 8:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.”
(Ord. 3628, passed - -1999)
§ 22-2-114 REGIONAL WEST MEDICAL CENTER; TRAFFIC OPERATION AND SPEED OF MOTOR
VEHICLES ON RUGGER DRIVE; REQUEST.
   Regional West Medical Center located at 4021 Avenue B, Scottsbluff,
Nebraska, has made a written request for the city to regulate the traffic
operation and speed of motor vehicles on Rugger Drive. Rugger Drive is located
on property owned by Regional West Medical Center and is a semi-public but
privately-owned drive located within the city. Accordingly, the city’s
ordinances as they relate to operation and speed of motor vehicles shall be
applicable, not only on public streets, alleys, and places of the city, but
also to the areas requested by the owner of semi-public places according to §
22-2-97 of this article.
(Ord. 4228, passed 4-16-2018)
§§ 22-2-115 – 22-2-117 RESERVED.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 22-2-118 KEEPING TO RIGHT; GENERALLY.
   Upon all streets and alleys of sufficient width, except one-way streets, the
driver of a vehicle shall drive such vehicle upon the right half of the street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-119 SLOWLY MOVING VEHICLES; KEEPING TO RIGHT; GENERALLY.
   Vehicles moving slowly shall be kept as closely as possible to the curb or
edge of the street on the right, allowing more-swiftly moving vehicles free
passage to the left.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-120 BACKING; CAUTION; REQUIRED.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back such vehicle unless such movement can
be made in safety.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-121 PUBLIC AND CROWDED PLACES; APPROACHING.
   Vehicles approaching a public school, railway station, theater, church, any
other public building, or any crowded space shall do so in an especially
cautious manner, and, except on a one-way street, within the lane nearest to
the right curb.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2577, passed - -1980)
§ 22-2-122 EMERGENCY VEHICLES; ARTICLE; NOT APPLICABLE TO; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this chapter, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same
in an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties. Provided, this
section shall not exempt any such driver from a duty to exercise due care, or
from liability of any kind for reckless disregard of the safety of other
persons or the property of other persons.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-123 SAME; RIGHTS-OF-WAY; OTHER VEHICLES; STOP; REQUIRED.
   The driver of any vehicle, not an authorized emergency vehicle, upon any
street and at any time shall yield the right-of-way to an authorized emergency
vehicle when the driver thereof makes use of an audible signal by a siren,
exhaust whistle or bell, or of a flashing red and/or blue light. Upon the
approach of such an emergency vehicle, every other vehicle within one block of
the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop, unless at that
time, such other vehicle be in a street intersection, in which event, such
other vehicle shall move clear of the street intersection and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right-hand curb (or, on a one-way street, the nearest
curb) as possible, and remain therein until such emergency vehicle or vehicles
have passed.
(Ord. 3133, passed - -1989)
§ 22-2-124 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS; DRIVING THROUGH; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No vehicle, except vehicles of the Police Department and the Fire
Department, when responding to emergency calls or orders in their several
departments, ambulances responding to emergency calls, and vehicles carrying
United States mails, shall be driven through a funeral procession or cortege
except with the permission of a police officer.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-125 COASTING; IN NEUTRAL GEAR; ON DOWN GRADES; PROHIBITED.
   The driver of a motor vehicle traveling on a down grade upon any street
shall not cause or permit such vehicle to coast with its transmission gears in
neutral.
§ 22-2-126 CARELESS DRIVING; PROHIBITED.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle within the city carelessly or
without due caution, so as to endanger a person or property, shall be guilty of
careless driving. Careless driving in a Class I violation.
§ 22-2-127 RECKLESS DRIVING; PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall be driven, used, operated, parked, or stopped in a
negligent, reckless, or willful, reckless manner, or in such manner as to
endanger or unreasonably interfere with the lawful traffic or use of the
street, or in a manner such that the vehicle shall not be under the complete
control of the driver.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1723, passed - -1968)
§ 22-2-128 SAME; INDIFFERENT AND WANTON DISREGARD.
   Any person who drives, uses, operates, parks, or stops any motor vehicle in
such a manner as to indicate an indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety
of persons or property shall be deemed to be guilty of reckless driving.
Reckless driving is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1723, passed - -1968)
§ 22-2-129 SAME; WILLFUL DISREGARD.
   Any person who drives, uses, operates, parks, or stops any motor vehicle in
such a manner as to indicate a willful disregard for the safety of persons or
property shall be deemed to be guilty of willful, reckless driving. Willful
reckless driving is a Class I violation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1723, passed - -1968)
§ 22-2-130 CARELESS, RECKLESS, AND WILLFUL RECKLESS DRIVING; APPLICABILITY OF
PROVISIONS; WHERE.
   The provisions of §§
22-2-126 through
22-2-129 of this subchapter shall be applicable anywhere within the city except
private property which is not open to public access.
§ 22-2-131 ACCIDENTS; STOPPING VEHICLE; INFORMATION; AID; REPORT; REQUIRED.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon either a street
or a private road or driveway resulting in injury or death to any person or
damage to property shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident;
      (2)   Give his or her name, address, and registration number of his or
her vehicle to the owner of the property struck or the driver or occupants of
any vehicle involved in the collision; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or is requested by the injured person.
   (B)   In the event there are no other persons involved in such accident,
such driver shall nevertheless stop at the scene of such accident and shall
immediately contact some member of the Police Department. It shall be unlawful
for any person, when involved in any such accident, to fail to comply with and
perform any acts required by this section.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-2-132 UNNECESSARY SMOKE, GAS, STEAM, AND ODORS; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any street or alley in such
manner as to permit to escape therefrom any unnecessary smoke, gas, steam, or
offensive odor, or in such manner as to discharge any embers, oils, or residue
from the fuel used in the operation thereof. Proof of the escape from such
motor vehicle of any steam, smoke, gas, or offensive odors shall be prima facie
proof that the same is unnecessary.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
ARTICLE 3: VEHICLES; SIZE; EQUIPMENT; CONDITION; REGISTRATION
Section
   
22-3-1   Width; height; restrictions
   
22-3-2   Brakes; specifications; repair
   
22-3-3   Lights; specifications; restrictions; general
   
22-3-4   Same; rear; on trailers
   
22-3-5   Same; motorcycles
   
22-3-6   Horns; specifications; repair
   
22-3-7   Sirens, whistles, and bells; emergency vehicles; restrictions
   
22-3-8   Windshield cleaners; required
   
22-3-9   Rear view mirrors; required; when
   
22-3-10   Projecting loads; red flag and light; required; when
   
22-3-11   Signs, posters, and non-transparent materials on windshield and
windows prohibited
   
22-3-12   Television sets; restrictions
   
22-3-13   Dragging rope, strap, and chain; prohibited; exceptions
   
22-3-14   Registration; license plates; required
   
22-3-15   Same; trailers
   
22-3-16   Same; registration; proof of financial responsibility
   
22-3-17   Damaged vehicles; garage keepers; report; duty
   
22-3-18   Abandoned vehicles; garage keepers; report; duty
   
22-3-19   Abandoned and unattended vehicle; damage
   
22-3-20   Child passenger; use of restraint system
   
22-3-21   Same; violation; penalty; defense
   
22-3-22   Same; violations; how construed
   
22-3-23   Occupant protection system; child passenger restraint system; use
required
   
22-3-24   Same; enforcement
   
22-3-25   Same; violation; penalty
   
22-3-26   Same; evidence; when admissible
§ 22-3-1 WIDTH; HEIGHT; RESTRICTIONS.
   No vehicle shall exceed a total outside width, including any load thereon,
of eight feet. No vehicle unladen or with load shall exceed a height of 12
feet.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-2 BRAKES; SPECIFICATIONS; REPAIR.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets of the city, shall be
equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop
and to hold such vehicle, including two separate sets of brakes. Provided,
motorcycles need be equipped with only one brake. All vehicle brakes shall be
maintained in good working order.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-3 LIGHTS; SPECIFICATIONS; RESTRICTIONS; GENERAL.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets of the city, shall have,
during the period from sunset to sunrise, and at any other time when there is
not sufficient light to render clearly discernable persons or vehicles upon the
highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, two or more whitish lights on the
front thereof, on opposite sides of the motor vehicle, and one or more red
lights on the rear. Every motor vehicle having a width of 80 inches or more
shall display clearance lights. All such lights and all other lighting devices
used on such vehicles shall be in compliance with the laws of the state. No
person shall operate any motor or other vehicle which is equipped with an
electric light or lights that gives off light which confuses travelers or
pedestrians on streets or crosswalks within the city.
(Ord. 3549, passed - -1997)
§ 22-3-4 SAME; REAR; ON TRAILERS.
   When any trailer shall be attached to any motor vehicle in use upon the
streets, such trailer shall carry a rear light or rear lights as required of
any other motor vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-5 SAME; MOTORCYCLES.
   No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets of the city, during the
period from sunset to sunrise and at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons or vehicles upon the
highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, unless the same has at least one and
not more that two headlights and with a tail light exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear of such motorcycle. The
headlights shall be in compliance with laws of the state.
(Ord. 3549, passed - -1997)
§ 22-3-6 HORNS; SPECIFICATIONS; REPAIR.
   Every motor vehicle while in use on the streets of the city shall be
equipped with an efficient horn. All horns on motor vehicles shall be capable
of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of not less
than 200 feet. All horns shall be maintained in good working order.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-7 SIRENS, WHISTLES, AND BELLS; EMERGENCY VEHICLES; RESTRICTIONS.
   Every Police and Fire Department vehicle, every ambulance, public utility,
and other authorized emergency vehicle used for emergency calls shall be
equipped with a siren, exhaust, compression or spark plug whistle, or bell of a
type approved by the City Manager. No other vehicles shall be equipped with a
siren, exhaust, compression or spark plug whistle, or bell.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-8 WINDSHIELD CLEANERS; REQUIRED.
   Every windshield on a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device for
cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, which device shall
be so constructed as to be controlled or operated by the driver of the vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-9 REAR VIEW MIRRORS; REQUIRED; WHEN.
   No person shall drive on a street any motor vehicle that is so constructed
or loaded as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the street to the
rear by looking backward from the driver’s position, unless such vehicle is
equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view of the
street for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-10 PROJECTING LOADS; RED FLAG AND LIGHT; REQUIRED; WHEN.
   When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the
load extends behind the rear end of the body of such vehicle, a red flag shall
be carried by day and a red light after sunset, securely fastened in a
conspicuous position at the extreme rear end of such load.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-11 SIGNS, POSTERS, AND NON-TRANSPARENT MATERIALS ON WINDSHIELD AND
WINDOWS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive upon a street any vehicle whose
windows or windshield violate the terms of Neb. RS 60-6,257. It shall be
unlawful for any person to drive upon a street any vehicle having a sign,
poster, picture, advertising, or other non-transparent material upon the
windshield, side wings, or side or rear windows of such vehicle, other than a
certificate or other paper required by law to be so displayed. Nor shall any
person, either by himself or herself or through his or her agent, place or post
any sign, poster, picture, advertising, or other non-transparent material on
the windshield or windows of either his or her own motor vehicle or that of any
other person.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-12 TELEVISION SETS; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install a television set forward of,
or which is visible from the front seats of any motor vehicle. Provided,
however, that this prohibition is not applicable to police vehicles.
(Ord. 3556, passed - -1997)
§ 22-3-13 DRAGGING ROPE, STRAP, AND CHAIN; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall permit any rope, strap, chain, or other article to drag
behind any vehicle while such vehicle is in use on the streets, except vehicles
transporting gasoline, benzine, or other flammable materials.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-14 REGISTRATION; LICENSE PLATES; REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any street without having
first registered the same as provided by the laws of the state. Every motor
vehicle shall have the vehicle license plates furnished by the county or state
displayed upon such vehicle in the manner and place required by the laws of the
state.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-15 SAME; TRAILERS.
   When any trailer shall be attached to any motor vehicle in use upon the
streets, that trailer shall be registered and carry a separate vehicle license
plate as required under the laws of the state.
(Ord. 3143, passed - -1989)
§ 22-3-16 SAME; REGISTRATION; PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning a motor vehicle licensed in the
state to operate that motor vehicle within the city unless the person at all
times during the operation has in the motor vehicle current and effective proof
of financial responsibility as required by the state statutes, or by any
successor provisions. Any motor vehicle operator unable to produce this proof
upon request of a state law enforcement officer shall be allowed ten days from
the date of the request to produce proof that financial responsibility was in
existence at the time of the request as required by the above statutes.
(Ord. 3143, passed - -1989)
§ 22-3-17 DAMAGED VEHICLES; GARAGE KEEPERS; REPORT; DUTY.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop within the city to which
is brought any vehicle which shows evidence of having been struck by a bullet,
or having been recently involved in an accident, shall report such fact to the
Police Department of the city as soon as such vehicle is received, giving the
engine number, manufacturer’s serial number, registration plate number, and the
name and address of the owner or operator of such vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-18 ABANDONED VEHICLES; GARAGE KEEPERS; REPORT; DUTY.
   The person in charge of any garage or repair shop at which has been left a
motor vehicle of unknown ownership for a period of 15 consecutive days without
being removed by its owner or any other person duly authorized to remove the
same, shall report such fact to the Police Department of the city, giving the
name, engine number, manufacturer’s serial number, registration plate number,
and the name and address, if known, of the person abandoning such vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-3-19 ABANDONED AND UNATTENDED VEHICLE; DAMAGE.
   No person other than one authorized by the city shall destroy, deface, or
remove any part of a vehicle which is left unattended on a highway or other
public place without number plates affixed or which is abandoned.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-3-20 CHILD PASSENGER; USE OF RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in the city which has or is
required by the laws of the State of Nebraska to have an occupant protection
system, as defined in the statutes of the state, shall ensure that all children
up to eight years of age being transported by such vehicle (a) use a child
passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, as such standard existed on January 1, 2009, and which is
correctly installed in such motor vehicle and (b) occupy a seat or seats, other
than a front seat, if such seat or seats are so equipped with such passenger
restraint system and such seat or seats are not already occupied by a child or
children under eight years of age. In addition, all children up to two years of
age shall use a rear-facing child passenger restraint system until the child
outgrows the child passenger restraint system manufacturer’s maximum allowable
height or weight.
   (B)   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in the city which has or is
required by the laws of the state to have an occupant protection system or a
three-point safely belt system shall ensure that all children eight years of
age and less than 18 years of age being transported by such vehicle use an
occupant protection system.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) above apply to autocycles and to every motor
vehicle which is equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to
be equipped with restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard 208, as such standard existed on January 1, 2009, except taxicabs,
mopeds, motorcycles, and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a
1963 year model or earlier, which is not equipped with an occupant protection
system.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever a licensed physician determines, through accepted
medical procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a
particular child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical
condition, or other medical reason, the provisions of divisions (A) and (B)
above shall be waived.
      (2)   The driver of any motor vehicle transporting such a child shall
carry on his or her person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the
physician identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (E)   The drivers of authorized emergency motor vehicles shall not be
subject to the requirements of divisions (A) or (B) above when operating such
authorized emergency motor vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (F)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of divisions (A) or (B) above if the motor vehicle is being operated in a
parade or exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in
accordance with the laws of the state or this municipal code.
   (G)   All persons being transported by a motor vehicle operated by a holder
of a provisional operator’s permit or a school permit shall use such motor
vehicle’s occupant protection system or a three-point safety belt system.
(Ord. 3792, passed - -2004; Ord. 4330, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 22-3-21 SAME; VIOLATIONS; PENALTY; DEFENSE.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §
22-3-20 of this municipal code is guilty of a Class II violation. A failure to
provide a child restraint system for more than one child in the same vehicle at
the same time as required by §
22-3-20(A), shall not be treated as a separate offense.
   (B)   Enforcement of §§
22-3-20(B) or (G) shall be accomplished only as a secondary action when an
operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or charged with a violation or some
other offense, unless the violation involves a person under the age of 18 years
riding in or on any portion of the motor vehicle not designed or intended for
the use of passengers when the motor vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. 3792, passed - -2004; Ord. 4330, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 22-3-22 SAME; VIOLATION; HOW CONSTRUED.
   Violations of §§
22-3-20 and
22-3-21 of this article shall not constitute prima facie evidence of
negligence, nor shall compliance with these sections constitute a defense to
any claim for personal injuries to a child or recovery of medical expenses for
injuries sustained in any motor vehicle accident. Violation of §§
22-3-20 and
22-3-21 of this article by a driver shall not constitute a defense for another
person to any claim for personal injuries to a child or recovery of medical
expenses for injuries sustained in any motor vehicle accident.
(Ord. 3292, passed - -1993)
§ 22-3-23 OCCUPANT PROTECTION SYSTEM; CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM; USE
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no driver shall operate a
motor vehicle upon a highway or street in the city unless the driver and each
front-seat occupant in the vehicle are wearing occupant protection systems, and
all occupant protection systems worn are properly adjusted and fastened.
   (B)   The following persons shall not be required to wear an occupant
protection system:
      (1)   A person who possesses written verification from a physician that
the person is unable to wear an occupant protection system for medical reasons;
      (2)   A rural letter carrier of the United States Postal Service while
performing his or her duties as a rural letter carrier between the first and
last delivery points; and
      (3)   A member of an emergency medical service while involved in patient
care.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean a vehicle
required by the state statutes to be equipped with an occupant protection
system.
(Ord. 3664, passed - -2000)
§ 22-3-24 SAME; ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of §
22-3-23 of this article shall be accomplished only as a secondary action when a
driver of a motor vehicle has been cited or charged with a violation or some
other offense.
(Ord. 3292, passed - -1993)
§ 22-3-25 SAME; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who violates §
22-3-23(A) of this article is guilty of a Class II violation, but no court
costs shall be assessed, nor shall any points be assessed against the driving
record of the person. Regardless of the number of persons in the vehicle not
wearing an occupant protection system pursuant to §
22-3-23(A)(1) of this article, only one violation shall be assessed against the
driver of the motor vehicle for each time the motor vehicle is stopped and a
violation of that section is found.
(Ord. 3292, passed - -1993)
§ 22-3-26 SAME; EVIDENCE; WHEN ADMISSIBLE.
   Evidence that a person was not wearing an occupant protection system at the
time he or she was injured shall not be admissible in regard to the issue of
liability or proximate cause, but may be admissible as evidence concerning
mitigation of damages, except that it shall not reduce recovery for damages by
more than 5%.
(Ord. 3292, passed - -1993)
ARTICLE 4: DRIVERS; RIDERS; OCCUPANTS
Section
   
22-4-1   Operator’s license; required
   
22-4-2   Operation of snowmobiles; prohibited; exception
   
22-4-3   Occupancy; front seat; restrictions
   
22-4-4   Riding on outside of vehicles; permitting; prohibited
   
22-4-5   Clinging and hitching to vehicles; permitting; operating; prohibited
   
22-4-6   Jumping on and off vehicles; unauthorized; prohibited
   
22-4-7   Motorcycles; riding in front of operator; prohibited
§ 22-4-1 OPERATOR’S LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any street within the city
without first having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license as provided by
the laws of the state. The operator of such a motor vehicle shall at all times
carry such license and shall present it for examination upon demand by any
police officer. It shall also be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle upon any street in the city during the period that his or her
operator’s license has been suspended or revoked. No owner or person in control
of any motor vehicle shall permit such vehicle to be driven by any person who
does not then have in force a motor vehicle driver’s license as provided by the
laws of the state.
(Ord. 2732, passed - -1982)
§ 22-4-2 OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any street, alley, or any city
property located within or without the corporate limits of the city except:
   (A)   The City Manager or, in case of his or her absence or disability, the
Police Chief may in an emergency prescribe the manner, time and areas in which,
and the minimum age of persons by which snowmobiles may be operated; or
   (B)   The City Council, whenever it shall by resolution determine that the
public safety, convenience, or welfare require or warrant, by resolution, may
permit operation of snowmobiles on particular streets, alleys, or city property
or parts thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2498, passed - -1979)
§ 22-4-3 OCCUPANCY; FRONT SEAT; RESTRICTIONS.
   The occupancy of the front seat of any motor vehicle that is in the process
of being started or is in motion on any street within the city shall be limited
to one driver and not more than two other persons over the age of 12 years.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-4-4 RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLES; PERMITTING; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride on the running board, hood, top, fender, or other
exterior part of any motor vehicle that is in the process of being started or
is in motion on any street within the city. Nor shall the driver of such a
motor vehicle knowingly permit any person to ride in such a manner.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-4-5 CLINGING AND HITCHING TO VEHICLES; PERMITTING; OPERATING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cling or attach himself or herself to
any exterior part of any motor vehicle that is in motion on any street within
the city, or to hitch, tie on, or otherwise connect any bicycle, coaster wagon,
toy sled, or other toy vehicle to such motor vehicle. It shall also be unlawful
for the driver of any such motor vehicle knowingly to permit any person to do
any of such prohibited acts, or to start, operate, or continue in motion such
vehicle knowing that any person is clinging or attached to any exterior part of
such vehicle, or that there is hitched, tied, or otherwise connected to such
vehicle any bicycle, coaster wagon, toy sled, or other toy vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-4-6 JUMPING ON AND OFF VEHICLES; UNAUTHORIZED; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the owner or a person
authorized by him or her to jump onto or off any motor vehicle, sleigh, or
other vehicle, whether such vehicle is at rest or in motion, on any street
within the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-4-7 MOTORCYCLES; RIDING IN FRONT OF OPERATOR; PROHIBITED.
   No person operating a motorcycle shall permit another person to ride thereon
in front of the operator.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
ARTICLE 5: DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR OR DRUGS
Section
   
22-5-1   Driving under the influence of alcoholic liquor or drug; penalties;
revocation of operator’s license; probation; alcohol assessment; court; powers
   
22-5-2   Implied consent to submit to chemical test; when test administered;
refusal; penalty
   
22-5-3   Implied consent to submit to chemical test; terms defined; prior
convictions; use
   
22-5-4    Implied consent to submit to chemical test; penalties
   
22-5-5   Drugs; test; additional test; refusal to permit; affect; results of
test; available upon request
   
22-5-6   Drugs; chemical test; consent of person incapable of refusal not
withdrawn
   
22-5-7   Drugs; chemical test; violation of ordinance; results; competent
evidence; permit
   
22-5-8   Test without preliminary breath test; when; qualified personnel
   
22-5-9   Fee for test; court costs
   
22-5-10   Applicability; where
   
22-5-11   Classification of penalties
   
22-5-12   Breath test and costs
§ 22-5-1 DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR DRUG; PENALTIES;
REVOCATION OF.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug;
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood; or
      (3)   When such person has a concentration of eight-hundredths of one
gram or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath.
   (B)   Any person who operates or is in the actual physical control of any
motor vehicle while in a condition described in division (A) above shall be
guilty of a violation, and upon conviction, punished as provided in §§
22-5-3 and
22-5-4 of this article.
§ 22-5-2 IMPLIED CONSENT TO SUBMIT TO CHEMICAL TEST; WHEN TEST ADMINISTERED;
REFUSAL; PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in this city shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath, or urine for
the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of
drugs in such blood, breath, or urine.
   (B)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of the provisions of this municipal
code may require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts
alleged to have been committed while the person was driving or was in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic
liquor or drugs to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood,
breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or
the presence of drugs in such blood, breath, or urine when the officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that such person was driving or was in the actual
physical control of a motor vehicle in this city while under the influence of
alcoholic liquor or drugs in violation of §
22-5-1 of this article.
   (C)   Any person arrested as described in division (B) above may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath, or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol or the presence of drugs. If the chemical test discloses the
presence of a concentration of alcohol in violation of §
22-5-1(A) of this article, the person shall be subject to the administrative
revocation procedures provided in Neb. RS 60-498.01 to 60-498.04, and upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided in §§
22-5-3 and
22-5-4 of this article. Any person who refuses to submit to such test or tests
required pursuant to this section shall be subject to the administrative
revocation procedures provided in Neb. RS 60-498.01 to 60-498.04 and shall be
guilty of a violation and upon conviction, punished as provided in §§
25-2-3 and
25-2-4 of this article.
   (D)   Any person involved in a motor vehicle accident in this city may be
required to submit to a chemical test of his or her blood, breath, or urine by
any peace officer if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the
person was driving or was in actual physical control of a motor vehicle on a
public highway (as that term is defined in Neb. RS 60-624) in this city while
under the influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs at the time of the accident. A
person involved in a motor vehicle accident subject to the implied consent law
of this city shall not be deemed to have withdrawn consent to submit to a
chemical test of his or her blood, breath, or urine by reason of leaving this
city. If the person refuses a test under this section and leaves the city for
any reason following an accident, he or she shall remain subject to division
(C) above and Neb. RS 60-498.02, upon return.
   (E)   Any person who is required to submit to a chemical blood, breath, or
urine test or tests pursuant to this section shall be advised that refusal to
submit to such test or tests is a separate crime for which the person may be
charged.
   (F)   Refusal to submit to a chemical blood, breath, or urine test or tests
pursuant to this section shall be admissible evidence in any action for a
violation of §
22-5-1 of this article.
§ 22-5-3 IMPLIED CONSENT TO SUBMIT TO CHEMICAL TEST; TERMS DEFINED; PRIOR
CONVICTIONS; USE.
   (A)   A violation of §§
22-5-1 and
22-5-2 of this article shall be punished as provided in §
22-5-4 of this article. For purposes of sentencing under §
22-5-4 of this article:
      (1)   PRIOR CONVICTION means a conviction for a violation committed
within the 12-year period prior to the offense for which the sentence is being
imposed as follows:
         (a)   For a violation of §
22-5-1 of this article:
            1.   Any conviction for a violation of Neb. RS 60-6,196;
            2.   Any conviction for a violation of a city ordinance enacted in
conformance with Neb. RS 60-6,196;
            3.   Any conviction under a law of another state if, at the time of
the conviction under the law of such other state, the offense for which the
person was convicted would have been a violation of Neb. RS 60-6,196; or
            4.   Any conviction for a violation of Neb. RS 60-6,198.
         (b)   For a violation of §
22-5-2 of this article:
            1.   Any conviction for a violation of Neb. RS 60-6,197;
            2.   Any conviction for a violation of a city ordinance enacted in
conformance with Neb. RS 60-6,197; or
            3.   Any conviction under a law of another state if, at the time of
the conviction under the law of such other state, the offense for which the
person was convicted would have been a violation of Neb. RS 60-6,197.
      (2)   Prior conviction includes any conviction under Neb. RS 60-6,196,
60-6,197, or 60-6,198, or any city ordinance enacted in conformance with any of
such sections, as such sections or city ordinances existed at the time of such
conviction regardless of subsequent amendments to any of such sections or city
ordinances; and
      (3)   TWELVE-YEAR PERIOD means the period computed from the date of the
prior offense to the date of the offense which resulted in the conviction for
which the sentence is being imposed.
   (B)   In any case charging a violation of §§
22-5-1 or
22-5-2 of this article, the prosecutor or investigating agency shall use due
diligence to obtain the person’s driving record from the Department of Motor
Vehicles and the person’s driving record from other states where he or she is
known to have resided within the last 12 years. The prosecutor shall certify to
the court, prior to sentencing, that such action has been taken. The prosecutor
shall present as evidence for purposes of sentence enhancement a court-
certified copy or an authenticated copy of a prior conviction in another state.
The court-certified or authenticated copy shall be prima facie evidence of such
prior conviction.
   (C)   For each conviction for a violation of §§
22-5-1 or
22-5-2 of this article, the court shall, as part of the judgment of conviction,
make a finding on the record as to the number of the convicted person’s prior
convictions. The convicted person shall be given the opportunity to review the
record of his or her prior convictions, bring mitigating facts to the attention
of the court prior to sentencing, and make objections on the record regarding
the validity of such prior convictions.
§ 22-5-4 IMPLIED CONSENT TO SUBMIT TO CHEMICAL TEST; PENALTIES.
   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
22-5-1 or
22-5-2 of this article shall be punished as follows.
   (A)   (1)   If such person has not had a prior conviction, such person shall
be guilty of a Class W violation, and the court shall, as part of the judgment
of conviction, order that the operator’s license of such person be revoked or
impounded for a period of six months from the date ordered by the court. Such
revocation or impoundment shall be administered upon sentencing, upon final
judgment of any appeal or review, or upon the date that any probation is
revoked.
      (2)   If the court places such person on probation or suspends the
sentence for any reason, the court shall, as one of the conditions of probation
or sentence suspension, order that the operator’s license of such person be
revoked or impounded for a period of 60 days from the date ordered by the
court, unless otherwise authorized by an order issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
6,211.05 and such order of probation or sentence suspension shall also include,
as one of its conditions, the payment of a $400 fine.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, if such person has had
one prior conviction, such person shall be guilty of a Class W violation, and
the court shall, as part of the judgment of conviction, order that the
operator’s license of such person be revoked for a period of one year from the
date ordered by the court and shall issue an order pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
6,197.01 with respect to all motor vehicles owned by such person. Such orders
shall be administered upon sentencing, upon final judgment of any appeal or
review, or upon the date that any probation is revoked.
      (2)   If the court places such person on probation or suspends the
sentence for any reason, the court shall, as one of the conditions of probation
or sentence suspension, order that the operator’s license of such person be
revoked or impounded for a period of one year from the date ordered by the
court, unless otherwise authorized by an order issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
6,211.05 and shall issue an order pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,197.01 with respect
to all motor vehicles owned by such person, and such order of probation or
sentence suspension shall also include, as conditions, the payment of a $500
fine and either confinement in the city or county jail for five days or the
imposition of not less than 240 hours of community service.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, if such person has had
two prior convictions, such person shall be guilty of a Class W violation, and
the court shall, as part of the judgment of conviction, order that the
operator’s license of such person be revoked for a period of 15 years from the
date ordered by the court, and shall issue an order pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
6,197.01 with respect to all motor vehicles owned by such person. Such orders
shall be administered upon sentencing, upon final judgment of any appeal or
review, or upon the date that any probation is revoked.
      (2)   If the court places such person on probation or suspends the
sentence for any reason, the court shall, as one of the conditions of probation
or sentence suspension, order that the operator’s license of such person be
revoked or impounded for a period of one year from the date ordered by the
court, unless otherwise authorized by an order issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-
6,211.05, and shall issue an order pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,197.01 with respect
to all motor vehicles owned by such person, and such order of probation or
sentence suspension shall also include, as conditions, the payment of a $600
fine and either confinement in the city or county jail for ten days or the
imposition of not less than 480 hours of community service.
   (D)   (1)   If such person has had one or two prior convictions and, as part
of the current violation, had a concentration of sixteen-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood or
sixteen-hundredths of one gram or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of
his or her breath, such person shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor, and
the court shall, as part of the judgment of conviction, revoke the operator’s
license of such person for any purpose for a period of at least one year but
not more than 15 years from the date ordered by the court, and shall issue an
order pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,197.01 with respect to all motor vehicles owned
by such person. Such revocation and order shall be administered upon
sentencing, upon final judgment of any appeal or review, or upon the date that
any probation is revoked. The court shall also sentence such person to serve at
least 30 days’ imprisonment in the county jail.
      (2)   If the court places such person on probation or suspends the
sentence for any reason, the court shall, as one of the conditions of probation
or sentence suspension, order that the operator’s license of such person be
revoked or impounded for a period of at least one year but not more than 15
years from the date ordered by the court, unless otherwise authorized by an
order issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,211.05, and shall issue an order pursuant
to Neb. RS 60-6,197.01 with respect to all motor vehicles owned by such person,
and such order of probation or sentence suspension shall also include, as
conditions, the payment of a $1,000 fine and either confinement in the county
jail for ten days or the imposition of not less than 480 hours of community
service.
§ 22-5-5 DRUGS; TEST; ADDITIONAL TEST; REFUSAL TO PERMIT; AFFECT; RESULTS OF
TEST; AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST.
   The peace officer who requires a chemical blood, breath or urine test, or
tests pursuant to this article or to the state statutes may direct whether the
test or tests shall be blood, breath, or urine. The person tested shall be
permitted to have a physician of his or her choice evaluate his or her
condition and perform or have performed whatever laboratory tests he or she
deems appropriate, in addition to and following the test or tests administered
at the direction of the officer. If the officer refuses to permit such
additional test to be taken, then the original test or tests shall not be
competent as evidence. Upon the request of the person tested, the results of
the test or tests taken at the direction of the officer shall be made available
to him or her.
(Ord. 3343, passed - -1994)
§ 22-5-6 DRUGS; CHEMICAL TEST; CONSENT OF PERSON INCAPABLE OF REFUSAL NOT
WITHDRAWN.
   Any person who is unconscious or who is otherwise in a condition rendering
him or her incapable of refusal, shall be deemed not to have withdrawn the
consent provided by this article and by the state statutes and the test may be
given.
(Ord. 3343, passed - -1994)
§ 22-5-7 DRUGS; CHEMICAL TEST; VIOLATION OF ORDINANCE; RESULTS; COMPETENT
EVIDENCE; PERMIT.
   (A)   Any test made under this article or the state statutes, if made in
conformity with the requirements of this section, shall be competent evidence
in any prosecution involving operating a motor vehicle while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs, or involving driving or being in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle when the concentration of alcohol in the
blood or breath is in excess of allowable levels.
   (B)   To be considered valid, tests of blood, breath, or urine made under
this article or the state statutes shall be performed according to methods
approved by the State Department of Health and an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by such Department for such purpose, except that a physician,
registered nurse, or other trained person employed by a licensed institution or
facility as defined in the state statutes or clinical laboratory certified
pursuant to the Federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967 being § 353
of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, or Title XVIII or XIX of the
Federal Social Security Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1395 et seq. to withdraw human
blood for scientific medical purposes, acting at the request of a peace
officer, may withdraw blood for the purpose of a test to determine the alcohol
concentration or the presence of drugs, and no permit from the Department shall
be required for such person to withdraw blood pursuant to such an order.
   (C)   Relevant evidence shall not be excluded in any prosecution involving
operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
drugs, or involving driving or being in actual physical control of a motor
vehicle when the concentration of alcohol in the blood, breath, or urine is in
excess of allowable levels on the ground that the evidence existed or was
obtained outside of this state.
(Ord. 3343, passed - -1994)
§ 22-5-8 TEST WITHOUT PRELIMINARY BREATH TEST; WHEN; QUALIFIED PERSONNEL.
   Any person arrested for any offense involving the operation or actual
physical control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic
liquor or drugs shall be required to submit to a chemical test or tests of his
or her blood, breath, or urine as provided in this article or the state
statutes without the preliminary breath test if the arresting peace officer
does not have available the necessary equipment for administering a breath test
or if the person is unconscious or is otherwise in a condition rendering him or
her incapable of testing by a preliminary breath test. Only a physician,
registered nurse, or other trained person employed by a licensed health care
facility or health care service defined in the Health Care Facility Licensure
Act, being Neb. RS 71-401 et seq. or a clinical laboratory certified pursuant
to the Federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967 being § 353 of the
Public Health Service Act, as amended, or Title XVIII or XIX of the Federal
Social Security Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1395 et seq. to withdraw human blood
for scientific or medical purposes, acting at the request of a peace officer,
may withdraw blood for the purpose of determining the concentration of the
alcohol or the presence of drugs, but this limitation shall not apply to the
taking of a urine or breath specimen.
(Ord 3674, passed - -2001)
§ 22-5-9 FEE FOR TEST; COURT COSTS.
   Upon the conviction of any person under this article, there shall be
assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any physician or any
agency administering the tests pursuant to a permit issued in accordance with
the laws of the state for the test administered and the analysis thereof, if
such test was actually made.
(Ord. 3343, passed - -1994)
§ 22-5-10 APPLICABILITY; WHERE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply anywhere within the city except
private property which is not open to public access.
§ 22-5-11 CLASSIFICATION OF PENALTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of this article, violations are divided into the
following two classes which are hereby authorized upon conviction:
      (1)   Class V.
         (a)   Maximum: no imprisonment, $100 fine; and
         (b)   Minimum: none.
      (2)   Class W. Driving while intoxicated and implied consent refusal:
         (a)   First conviction.
            1.   Maximum: 60 days imprisonment and $500 fine; and
            2.   Mandatory minimum: seven days imprisonment and $400 fine.
         (b)   Second conviction.
            1.   Maximum: 90 days imprisonment and $500 fine; and
            2.   Mandatory minimum: 30 days imprisonment and $500 fine.
         (c)   Third conviction.
            1.   Maximum: one year imprisonment and $600 fine; and
            2.   Mandatory minimum: 90 days imprisonment and $600 fine.
   (B)   Sentences of imprisonment in Class W violations shall be served in the
county jail.
(Ord. 3593, passed - -1998)
§ 22-5-12 BREATH TEST AND COSTS.
   Upon the conviction of any person driving a motor vehicle while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs in violation of the laws of the state or
this code, there shall be assessed as part of the court costs, a fee of $75 for
breath test administered by a police officer, if administered pursuant to a
valid permit, and if such test is actually made.
(Ord. 3587, passed - -1998)
ARTICLE 6: PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
22-6-1   Diagonal parking; where; marking
   
22-6-2   Parallel parking
   
22-6-3   Direction
   
22-6-4   Parallel parking; marking
   
22-6-5   Marked parking spaces; parking within; driving
   
22-6-6   Parking zones; time limits
   
22-6-7   Restricted to use or type of vehicle
   
22-6-8   Parking restrictions; signs; curb painting
   
22-6-9   Loading zones; designated; restrictions
   
22-6-10   Passenger loading; schools
   
22-6-11   Bus parking and stops; designated; restrictions; marking; general
   
22-6-12   School buses
   
22-6-13   No parking zones
   
22-6-14   No parking zones; designation; marking
   
22-6-15   Intersections; near; prohibited; marking; exceptions
   
22-6-16   Stop signs; near; prohibited
   
22-6-17   Alley entrances; projecting into; prohibited
   
22-6-18   Fire hydrants: near; prohibited; marking
   
22-6-19   Alleys; restrictions
   
22-6-20   Obstructing and impeding traffic; prohibited; exceptions
   
22-6-21   Unattended vehicles; precautions
   
22-6-22   Parking; maximum period
   
22-6-23   Markings and designations; by private persons; prohibited
   
22-6-24   Private premises; unauthorized parking; posting
   
22-6-25   City premises; parking; signs
   
22-6-26   Winter’s Creek Canal; vehicles; prohibited
   
22-6-27   Limited time parking; enforcement; notice; fees; exceptions
   
22-6-28   Citation; arrest; prosecution; penalties
   
22-6-29 – 22-6-32   Reserved
Trucks
   
22-6-33   Trucks; certain streets; restrictions; general
   
22-6-34   Certain streets and alleys; maximum length; combinations and tandem
wheels prohibited
   
22-6-35   Commercial vehicles; restrictions; permits
   
22-6-36   Trucks; residential zones
   
22-6-37   End gate extended; restrictions
   
22-6-38   Truck parking zone; creation; marking
   
22-6-39   Vehicles using; restrictions
Municipal Lots
   
22-6-40   Municipal parking lots; designated
   
22-6-41   Entrance and exit; marking; location
   
22-6-42   Limited parking; creation; marking
   
22-6-43   Limited parking; violations
   
22-6-44   Limited parking; permit; fee
   
22-6-45   Limited parking; permit; display
   
22-6-46   Provisions; applicability
Handicapped Parking
   
22-6-47   Handicapped parking spaces; authorized; marking; permit display
   
22-6-48   Parking; requirement
   
22-6-49   Permit; eligibility
   
22-6-50   Permit; application
   
22-6-51   Permit; vehicle used for transportation
   
22-6-52   Fee
   
22-6-53   Limit
   
22-6-54   Limit; exception
   
22-6-55   Citation
   
22-6-56   Restricted use; alteration; false information; prohibited
   
22-6-57   Penalty
   
22-6-58    – 22-6-60Reserved
Snow Emergency Routes
   
22-6-61   Snow emergency routes; designated
   
22-6-62   Prohibition of parking on snow emergency routes
   
22-6-63   Emergency declaration
   
22-6-64   Operation of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes or designated
arterial and residential streets
   
22-6-65   Windrows and removal of vehicles
   
22-6-66   Curb sidewalk areas and private driveways
   
22-6-67   Violation of vehicles parking on emergency snow routes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 22-6-1 DIAGONAL PARKING; WHERE; MARKING.
   (A)   The parking areas on the following parts of streets shall be marked as
diagonal parking at an angle of 30 degrees with the curb so that the right
front wheel of the vehicle parked therein shall be next to the curb:
      (1)   On Broadway Avenue between 15th Street and 20th Street; and
      (2)   On the east side of Fourth Avenue between 19th Street and 20th
Street.
   (B)   Such parking places shall be marked with white lines.
(Ord. 3608, passed - -1999; Ord. 4129, passed - -2014)
§ 22-6-2 PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   On all streets, other than those in which diagonal parking is
required, vehicles, when parked, shall park on the traveled part of the street
adjacent to the curb or, if there be no curb, adjacent to the side of the
street, in such a manner that both right wheels are within 12 inches of the
curb or, if there be no curb, within 12 inches of the side of the street, and
there is a space of at least four feet between such vehicles and the other
vehicles parked along such curb or side of the street.
   (B)   Parallel parking spaces may be marked on the pavement with white
boundary lines as a single parallel parking space, or in groups of two or more
parallel parking spaces. When composed of two or more parallel parking spaces,
the rear end of one space may abut the front end of the adjoining space.
(Ord. 3524, passed - -1997)
§ 22-6-3 DIRECTION.
   No person shall park any vehicle on a street at the curb or side of the
street, except when such vehicle is headed in the direction of the traffic on
that side of the street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-6-4 PARALLEL PARKING; MARKING.
   (A)   The parking areas on the following parts of streets shall be marked as
paired parallel parking spaces or, where space permits only a single parallel
parking space, as a single parallel parking space on:
      (1)   Broadway Avenue between 16th Street and 19th Street;
      (2)   1st Avenue between East Overland Drive and 20th Street;
      (3)   Avenue A between Railway Street and 20th Street;
      (4)   16th Street from alley west of Broadway to alley east of Broadway,
and from 1st Avenue to 2nd Avenue;
      (5)   17th Street from alley west of Broadway to alley east of Broadway;
      (6)   18th Street from alley west of Broadway to alley east of Broadway;
      (7)   19th Street from alley west of Broadway to alley east of Broadway;
and
      (8)   Both sides of 1st Avenue between a point 93 feet north of South
Beltline Highway and a point 205 feet north of the South Beltline Highway.
   (B)   Paired parallel parking spaces shall be marked by white boundary lines
in a pattern such that the rear end of one space in a pair abuts the front end
of the other space in the pair, and the ends of pairs are such distance apart,
as will allow entrance and egress with a minimum of vehicle maneuvering.
(Ord. 3609, passed - -1999)
§ 22-6-5 MARKED PARKING SPACES; PARKING WITHIN; DRIVING.
   Where parking spaces have been marked by white boundary lines which are
perpendicular or diagonal to the curb or edge of the street, it shall be
unlawful to operate any vehicle on, across, or over any of such lines. Where
parking spaces have been marked by white boundary lines, it shall be unlawful
to park any vehicle in such manner that the vehicle is not wholly within such
lines. Not more than one vehicle shall be parked within any such parking space.
(Ord. 3357, passed - -1994)
§ 22-6-6 PARKING ZONES; TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any parking spaces on
the streets or avenues of the city as limited to a certain period of time, and
to certain hours or days, if the authorizing resolution so specifies.
   (B)   All parking spaces restricted to a certain period of time, or to
certain hours or days, shall be clearly marked with appropriate signs which
indicate the time period restriction.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave any vehicle in a
parking space for a period of time in excess of that specified.
(Ord. 3468, passed - -1995)
§ 22-6-7 RESTRICTED TO USE OR TYPE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any parking spaces on
the streets or avenues of the city as limited to parking by certain vehicles,
such as emergency vehicles, police vehicles, Fire Department vehicles, trucks,
vehicles used by school crossing guards, and vehicles used by doctors, as
specified in the resolution.
   (B)   All parking spaces restricted to a certain vehicle shall be clearly
marked with appropriate signs which indicate the type of vehicle(s) allowed to
park in the space(s).
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave any vehicle in a
parking space restricted to a certain type of vehicle, unless the vehicle is of
the character for which the zone was designated.
(Ord. 3294, passed - -1993)
§ 22-6-8 PARKING RESTRICTIONS; SIGNS; CURB PAINTING.
   (A)   Unless specifically provided elsewhere in the municipal code, all
parking regulation signs shall be located next to the curb in conspicuous
positions and in such number and spaced in such a manner as to provide
reasonable and adequate notice of the restriction.
   (B)   The tops of curbs in restricted parking zones, if painted, shall be
painted the following colors:
      (1)   Red: all parking spaces or portions of streets where no parking is
allowed at any time, school no parking zones, bus parking zones, school bus
zones, and emergency zones as designated by ordinance;
      (2)   Yellow: loading zones, school passenger loading zones, and all
zones restricted by use or type of vehicle;
      (3)   White: all parking zones restricted by time limits. In addition,
white paint may also be used from time to time to cover up changes in parking
spaces or mistakes made in painting spaces; and
      (4)   Blue: handicapped parking zones.
(Ord. 3363, passed - -1994)
§ 22-6-9 LOADING ZONES; DESIGNATED; RESTRICTIONS.
   Loading zones, when so designated, shall be clearly marked with appropriate
signs bearing the words “do not park, loading zone”, and, if parking is
prohibited only between certain hours, with additional words indicating the
restricted hours. Such parking spaces shall be used exclusively for the purpose
of, and only during, the loading and unloading of freight, materials, and
merchandise, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in any
such parking spaces, except for such purpose, during the restricted hours.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1363, passed - -1962; Ord. 2052, passed - -
1974)
§ 22-6-10 PASSENGER LOADING; SCHOOLS.
   Parking spaces on streets or avenues of the city adjacent to schools, if
designated as a zone for the loading and unloading, from vehicles other than
school buses, of passengers attending an adjacent school, shall be clearly
marked with appropriate sign(s) bearing the words “five minute loading” or, if
the authorizing resolution designates parking spaces as five-minute loading
only during certain hours or days, the signs shall also specify such hours and
days. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave any vehicle in such
a parking space, except for the purpose of such loading and unloading within a
period of five minutes.
(Ord. 3363, passed - -1994)
§ 22-6-11 BUS PARKING; STOPS; DESIGNATED; RESTRICTIONS; MARKING; GENERAL.
   The City Council, whenever it shall determined by resolution that the public
safety, convenience, or welfare requires or warrants, by resolution, may
designate parking spaces on the streets or avenues of the city as bus parking
zones or bus stops. Bus parking zones, when so designated, may be occupied by
buses during the period of time specified in the resolution, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park any other type of vehicle in such zones during
such periods of time. Bus parking zones shall be clearly designated by
appropriate signs bearing the words “bus parking only”, and designating the
hours or days during which such restriction shall apply. Bus stops, when so
designated, may be occupied by buses only while discharging and taking on
passengers during such periods of time as may be reasonably necessary for that
purpose, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park any other type of
vehicle in such space(s) at any time. Bus stops shall be clearly designated by
appropriate signs bearing the words “no parking - bus stop”. Provided, this
section shall not apply to the parking or stopping of school buses, or other
vehicles, on streets adjacent to schools.
(Ord. 3363, passed - -1994)
§ 22-6-12 SCHOOL BUSES.
   The City Council, whenever it shall determine by resolution that the public
safety, convenience, or welfare requires or warrants, by resolution, may
designate parking spaces on streets or avenues of the city adjacent to schools
as school bus parking zones. School bus parking zones shall be clearly
designated by appropriate signs bearing the words “no parking - bus stop”. If a
school bus parking zone is designated by the resolution as such a zone, only
during certain hours or certain days, the signs shall also specify such hours
or days. School buses may be parked at any time in a school bus parking zone
marked as above provided. No other type of vehicle may be parked at any time in
such a zone, unless the sign specifies hours or days during which parking is
prohibited, in which event other types of vehicles, as well as school buses,
may be parked in the zone during other hours or, as the case may be, other
days.
(Ord. 3363, passed - -1994)
§ 22-6-13 NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate any parking spaces on
the streets or avenues of the city as no parking zones or as zones where
parking is restricted at certain times and/or days as specified in the
resolution.
   (B)   All parking spaces designated as no parking zones or restricted to
parking at certain times and/or days shall be clearly marked with appropriate
signs which indicate the restriction.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave any vehicle in a
no parking zone. In addition, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or
leave any vehicle in a zone where parking is restricted during certain times
and/or days during the restriction period indicated.
(Ord. 3294, passed - -1993)
§ 22-6-14 NO PARKING ZONES; DESIGNATION; MARKING.
   The City Council, whenever it shall, by resolution, determine that the
public safety, convenience, or welfare requires or warrants, by resolution, may
designate parking spaces on streets and avenues abutting or adjacent to
premises used for school purposes as no parking zones during hours and on days
designated in the resolution, except during the period from June 5 to August
25. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in any such parking
spaces during any of such hours. Such zones shall be clearly marked with
appropriate signs bearing the words “no parking” and stating the days and hours
during which the prohibition applies.
(Ord. 3363, passed - -1994)
§ 22-6-15 INTERSECTIONS; NEAR; PROHIBITED; MARKING; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any vehicle
for any purpose for any period of time on any street so that any part of the
vehicle is within 30 feet of any street intersection. The top of the curb, if
any, abutting such space shall, if painted, be painted red. Provided, this
section shall not apply to any space abutting or adjacent to which a parking
meter shall have been installed or a stop sign shall have been erected.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1889, passed - -1971)
§ 22-6-16 STOP SIGNS; NEAR; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any vehicle
for any purpose for any period of time on any street so that any part of the
vehicle is within 20 feet of a stop sign of the city. The top of the curb, if
any, abutting such space shall, if painted, be painted red. Provided, this
section shall not apply to any space abutting or adjacent to which a parking
meter shall have been installed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1539, passed - -1965)
§ 22-6-17 ALLEY ENTRANCES; PROJECTING INTO; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any vehicle
for any purpose for any period of time on any street so that any part of the
vehicle is within five feet of any alley entrance, public or private driveway,
or curb cut; provided, this section shall not apply to any space abutting or
adjacent to which a parking meter shall have been installed.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1539, passed - -1965)
§ 22-6-18 FIRE HYDRANTS; NEAR; PROHIBITED; MARKING.
   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing within ten feet of any fire
hydrant for any period of time whatsoever. The curb space within such area of
ten feet within such fire hydrant shall be painted red to indicate such
prohibition.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-6-19 ALLEYS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No motor vehicle shall be parked in any alley in the city except for the
purpose of loading or unloading, or of repairing a building or equipment that
cannot be removed from a building. Such parking shall be done in a manner that
will cause the least possible obstruction in the alley, and shall not continue
longer than necessary for the purpose of loading or unloading, or of making
repairs. The operator of the vehicle shall activate the vehicle emergency
flasher system equipment continuously during the loading and unloading. The
Police Chief shall have power to prohibit such parking in any particular
instance in which such parking substantially interferes with the movement of
traffic in the alley or creates a public danger. This section shall not be
construed to authorize parking that is prohibited by any other section of this
article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2286, passed - -1977)
§ 22-6-20 OBSTRUCTING AND IMPEDING TRAFFIC; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall, except in case of accident or emergency, or as
otherwise provided in this section, park or stop any vehicle within any street
(except where parking is permitted), street intersection, or alley entrance, or
in such location as to obstruct or partially obstruct any street (except where
parking is permitted), street crossing, crosswalk, alley entrance, or private
driveway or drive, or back of another vehicle parked diagonally with the curb.
   (B)   A vehicle used primarily to transport the elderly or persons with a
disability who require assistance in entering and leaving the vehicle, may, if
no lawful parking place is reasonably convenient, temporarily park such vehicle
in the traveled portion of a street subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   Such vehicle may park in the traveled portion of a street only for
the purpose of allowing an elderly person or a person with a disability to
enter or depart the vehicle;
      (2)   The vehicle may park in the traveled portion of a street for no
longer than is reasonably necessary to accomplish the purpose described above,
and in no event longer than ten minutes;
      (3)   The vehicle’s flashing stop warning signal lights shall be
activated at all times while the vehicle is stopped in the traveled portion of
a street;
      (4)   The vehicle shall park close enough to the curb to allow other
traffic to pass; and
      (5)   A traffic cone complying with the provisions of the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the State Department of Roads shall
be in place at the rear of the vehicle at all times while the vehicle is
stopped in the traveled portion of a street.
(Ord. 3772, passed - -2003)
§ 22-6-21 UNATTENDED VEHICLES; PRECAUTIONS.
   No person having control or charge of a vehicle shall allow such vehicle to
stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes thereon and
stopping the motor thereof, and, when such vehicle is standing upon any grade,
without turning the front wheels of such vehicle toward the curb or side of the
street.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-6-22 PARKING; MAXIMUM PERIOD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any vehicle in
any street, alley, municipal off-street parking lot, or other public way or
place of the city for a period of more than ten days. This section shall not be
construed to extend any period of time for parking or leaving standing a
vehicle that is limited by some other provision of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1487, passed - -1965)
§ 22-6-23 MARKINGS AND DESIGNATIONS; BY PRIVATE PERSONS; PROHIBITED.
   The marking or designating of portions of streets or alleys where the
parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by the city
through its proper officers, and no person, firm, or corporation shall so mark
or designate, by painting the curb or otherwise, any portion of any street or
alley, or in any other manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of
vehicles in any portion of any street or alley, except at places where the
parking of vehicles is prohibited by ordinance.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-6-24 PRIVATE PREMISES; UNAUTHORIZED PARKING; POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not in possession of private premises,
unless authorized by the person in possession of the premises, at any time to
park or leave standing any vehicle on such premises within any space or area
that has been designated, as herein provided, as a private parking space or to
obstruct in any manner the entrance to such parking space. All such private
parking spaces or areas shall be designated by appropriate signs, erected by
the owner or occupant of the premises, bearing the words “private parking”.
Private premises shall include all premises not in the possession of the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1723, passed - -1968)
§ 22-6-25 CITY PREMISES; PARKING; SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation at any time to
park or leave standing any vehicle on premises, or part of premises, owned by
or under the control of the city which have been designated as a no parking
zone in the manner hereinafter provided; provided, this prohibition shall not
apply to officers or employees of the city while engaged in the performance of
their official duties. Such zones may be designated by a resolution adopted by
the City Council. Appropriate signs with the words “no parking”, or these and
other consistent words, imprinted thereon shall be placed on the premises by
the city at points where the signs reasonably may be seen by the operators of
vehicles.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2000, passed - -1974)
§ 22-6-26 WINTER’S CREEK CANAL; VEHICLES; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or park any motor vehicle
(including motorcycle and moped) upon the concrete cover of that part of the
Winter’s Creek Canal conduit which is situated between Avenue I and Avenue B;
provided, this section shall not apply to those segments of the canal conduit
which intersect a public street or alley of the city.
(Ord. 2654, passed - -1981)
§ 22-6-27 LIMITED TIME PARKING; ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE; FEES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever any person shall violate any provision of §§
22-6-6 or
22-6-48 of this article, with respect to the locations identified below, a
police officer or other employee of the city designated by the Police Chief
with authority to enforce this article shall cause a written notice of the
violation to be affixed in a conspicuous place on the motor vehicle. The
recipient of the notice may, within 24 hours after the notice is affixed to the
motor vehicle, deposit the sum provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code, and the notice at the office of the City
Clerk or in a receptacle provided by the City Clerk. If this amount and the
notice are not deposited as provided for above, the recipient of the notice
may, within 72 hours after expiration of the above 24-hour period, pay the sum
provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code at the office of the City Clerk. Payment
pursuant to either of the above procedures shall avoid the issuance of a
citation or arrest by a police officer and prosecution for the violation
specified in the notice.
   (B)   This section shall be applicable only with respect to motor vehicles
parked in parking spaces at the following locations:
      (1)   Both sides of Broadway Avenue between 14th Street and 20th Street;
      (2)   Both sides of Avenue A between Railway Street and West 19th Street;
      (3)   West side of Avenue B between Railway Street and West 17th Street;
      (4)   Both sides of 1st Avenue between East 14th Street and East 19th
Street;
      (5)   Both sides of 2nd Avenue between East 15th Street and East 16th
Street;
      (6)   Both sides of East 15th Street between Broadway Avenue and 2nd
Avenue;
      (7)   Both sides of 16th Street between Avenue A and 2nd Avenue;
      (8)   Both sides of 17th Street between Avenue B and 2nd Avenue;
      (9)   Both sides of 18th Street between Avenue B and 2nd Avenue;
      (10)   Both sides of 19th Street between Avenue A and 1st Avenue; and
      (11)   On public off-street parking lots numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
10, 11, 13, 14, and 15.
(Ord. 3322, passed - -1993)
§ 22-6-28 CITATION; ARREST; PROSECUTION; PENALTIES.
   Whenever any person shall violate any provision of §§
22-6-6,
22-6-43, or
22-6-53 of this article (providing, in the event the violation shall have
occurred at a location to which §
22-6-27 of this article applies, and the person shall not have made payment of
a fee in an amount and manner and within a time which, by the terms of such
section, will avoid the issuance of a citation or arrest and prosecution), a
citation charging violation of the applicable section shall be issued to the
person, or the person shall be arrested by a police officer and the case
prosecuted in the manner provided by law. Upon conviction, the person shall be
punished in the manner provided for Class II violations.
(Ord. 3322, passed - -1993)
§§ 22-6-29 – 22-6-32 RESERVED.
TRUCKS
§ 22-6-33 TRUCKS; CERTAIN STREETS; RESTRICTIONS; GENERAL.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor truck vehicle on the following
described avenues:
   (A)   Broadway Avenue from the intersection thereof with 20th Street to the
intersection thereof with 14th Street;
   (B)   1st Avenue from the intersection thereof with East 20th Street to the
intersection thereof with East 14th Street; and
   (C)   Avenue A, from the intersection thereof with West 20th Street to the
intersection thereof with Railway Street, except as to any of such avenues, for
the purpose of loading into or unloading from a building located on such an
avenue that does not have an entrance from the alley located immediately behind
it. Where such loading or unloading is permissible, the operator of the vehicle
shall activate the vehicle emergency flasher system equipment continuously
during the loading and unloading; provided, this section shall not apply to
motor truck vehicles which are the subjects of §§
22-6-34 and
22-6-35 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2617, passed - -1980)
§ 22-6-34 CERTAIN STREETS AND ALLEYS; MAXIMUM LENGTH; COMBINATIONS AND TANDEM
WHEELS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any motor truck vehicle in excess of 26 feet
in overall length to be loaded, unloaded, or parked upon the following
designated streets, ways, and alleys in the city:
      (1)   Broadway Avenue, from the intersection thereof with 20th Street to
the intersection thereof with 14th Street;
      (2)   Avenue A, from the intersection thereof with 20th Street to the
intersection thereof with Railway Street;
      (3)   Railway Street, from the intersection thereof with Avenue A to the
intersection thereof with Broadway Avenue;
      (4)   1st Avenue, from the intersection thereof with East 20th Street to
the intersection thereof with East 14th Street;
      (5)   19th Street, from the alley between Broadway Avenue and Avenue A to
the alley between Broadway Avenue and 1st Avenue;
      (6)   18th Street, from the intersection thereof with Avenue A to the
intersection thereof with 1st Avenue;
      (7)   17th Street, from the intersection thereof with Avenue A to the
intersection thereof with 1st Avenue;
      (8)   16th Street, from the intersection thereof with Avenue A to the
intersection thereof with 1st Avenue;
      (9)   15th Street, from the intersection thereof with Broadway Avenue to
the intersection thereof with 1st Avenue;
      (10)   14th Street, from the intersection thereof with Broadway Avenue to
the intersection thereof with 1st Avenue;
      (11)   The alley between Broadway Avenue and Avenue A, from the
intersection thereof with West 20th Street to the intersection thereof with
Railway Street;
      (12)   The alley between Broadway Avenue and 1st Avenue, from the
intersection thereof with East 20th Street to the intersection thereof with
East 14th Street; and
      (13)   All intersections above-described.
   (B)   Provided, a cargo weighing not less than 10,000 pounds and subject to
a single straight bill of lading may be loaded onto or unloaded from such a
motor truck in such alleys between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.; and,
in event it is impossible to load or unload a single cargo in any of such
streets or alleys except onto or from such a motor truck, the Police Chief,
upon so determining, may issue a written permit for such loading or unloading,
which shall be accomplished at such time and place and in accordance with such
other reasonable conditions as the permit shall specify.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2286, passed - -1977)
§ 22-6-35 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES; RESTRICTIONS; PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to park any commercial vehicle on any street or avenue
in the city, except in truck parking zones or, in circumstances specified
elsewhere in this article, on streets and avenues in residential zones.
Provided, if written application shall be made to the Police Chief by the owner
or occupant of premises in a business, commercial, or industrial zone, as
defined in
Chapter 25, Article 22 of this code, for a special permit to park a commercial
vehicle at a certain location on a street or avenue opposite the premises
during loading or unloading, on the grounds that such loading or unloading
cannot reasonably be accomplished in any other location, the Police Chief may
grant a special written permit to so park the vehicle if he or she shall
determine that such vehicle cannot reasonably be loaded or unloaded except by
parking the vehicle at such location, and that such parking would not endanger
the public safety or create traffic congestion. The permit shall specify the
place or places where such parking may occur, and may contain such further
restrictions or conditions as, in the sound discretion of the Police Chief, are
reasonably necessary to avoid endangering the public safety or avoid traffic
congestion. It shall be unlawful for any person to whom such a permit has been
granted to park or permit the parking of the vehicle in violation of the terms
of the permit.
(Ord. 2617, passed - -1980)
§ 22-6-36 TRUCKS; RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, or permit any
motor truck vehicle to stand or be parked upon any public street within any
residential zone of the city, except in a truck parking zone:
      (1)   For a continuous period of time longer than two hours; or
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (B)   Provided, any such vehicle that shall have been continuously engaged
in the loading or unloading of freight while standing or parked for a period of
two hours shall be allowed to remain so standing or parked for such additional
period of time as is necessary, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, to
complete such loading or unloading. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to:
      (1)   An exempt truck vehicle as defined in this chapter;
      (2)   Motor truck vehicles of the city, or of any public utility, while
the vehicle actually is being used in the performance of duties necessary or
properly to be performed by the city or public utility; or
      (3)   Motor truck vehicles of the United States of America or the state.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2389, passed - -1978)
§ 22-6-37 END GATE EXTENDED; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor truck vehicle with the end gate of
the same down and extending beyond the body of such vehicle, except while such
vehicle is being loaded or unloaded in any otherwise lawful manner.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-6-38 TRUCK PARKING ZONE; CREATION; MARKING.
   (A)   The City Council, whenever it shall determine by resolution that the
public safety, convenience, or welfare requires or warrants, by resolution, may
designate parking spaces on the streets and avenues of the city as truck
parking zones during:
      (1)   Two-hour periods (times unspecified for trucks of one and one-half
tons and larger); or
      (2)   During the hours from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and on Sundays and
holidays.
   (B)   Such zones shall be clearly marked with appropriate signs having the
words, “truck parking only - one and one-half tons and larger - two-hour
parking zone” or, as the case may be, “truck parking only 6:00 p.m. to 7:00
a.m. on Sundays and holidays”, imprinted thereon. Such signs shall be located
next to the curb and not to exceed 150 feet apart, and the top of the adjacent
curb shall be painted yellow.
(Ord. 3088, passed - -1988)
§ 22-6-39 VEHICLES USING; RESTRICTIONS.
   Such truck parking zones are hereby set aside for the purpose of providing
space for the parking of commercial vehicles, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to park any other vehicle in such zones at any time.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
MUNICIPAL LOTS
§ 22-6-40 MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS; DESIGNATED.
   The following tracts of land owned by the city shall be public off-street
parking lots, and shall be improved, maintained, and operated by the city:
   (A)   Parking Lot No. 1: Lots 3 and 4, Block 5, Original Town, City of
Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (B)   Parking Lot No. 2: Lots 4, 5, and 6, Block 1, Original Town, City of
Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (C)   Parking Lot No. 3: Lots 4, 5, and 6, except the West 10 feet, of Block
4, Seventh Addition, City of Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (D)   Parking Lot No. 4: Lots 4, 5, and 6, Block 2, Original Town, City of
Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (E)   Parking Lot No. 6: Lots 4, 5, 6, and 7, Block 11, Original Town, City
of Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (F)   Parking Lot No. 7: Lots 11, 12, 13, and 14, Block 11, Original Town,
City of Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (G)   Parking Lot No. 8: Lots 15 and 16, Block 3, Original Town, City of
Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (H)   Parking Lot No. 10: Lots 15 and 16, Block 6, Original Town, City of
Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (I)   Parking Lot No. 12: Lot 1 and the N 1/2 of Lot 2, Block 4, Original
Town, City of Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (J)   Parking Lot No. 13: Lot 4, Block 10, Original Town, City of
Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska;
   (K)   Parking Lot No. 15: Lot 6, Block 1, Third Addition to the City of
Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska; and
   (L)   Parking Lot No. 16: Lots 13 and 14, Block 3, Original Town of
Scottsbluff, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska.
(Ord. 3537, passed - -1997; Ord. 4298, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 22-6-41 ENTRANCE AND EXIT; MARKING; LOCATION.
   Vehicles may enter a public off-street parking lot only at an entrance, may
leave only at an exit, while on the lot, except while entering or backing out
of a parking space, may be driven only toward an exit. No vehicle shall be
backed into a parking space. All entrances and exits shall be clearly marked
with appropriate signs. The City Council, by resolution, may prescribe such
locations for the entrances and exits, and prescribe such signs to designate
the same, as the City Council shall determine to be in the interest of public
safety, convenience and welfare.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1561, passed - -1966)
§ 22-6-42 LIMITED PARKING; CREATION; MARKING.
   The City Council, whenever it shall determine that the public safety,
convenience, or welfare requires or warrants, by resolution, may establish the
parking spaces, or particular parking spaces, on designated off-street parking
lots as:
   (A)    Two-hour, four-hour or ten-hour parking spaces between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day of the week, except Sundays and holidays,
and further designate such parking spaces, or some of them, as parking spaces
on which, if a 72-hour permit shall have been issued as provided in this
article, vehicles may be parked continuously for periods not to exceed 72
hours; or
   (B)   Parking spaces on which, if a monthly permit shall have been issued as
provided in this article, vehicles may be parked continuously or intermittently
for a period not to exceed one month. Such two-hour, four-hour and ten-hour
parking spaces shall be clearly designated with appropriate signs(s) bearing
the words “two-hour parking”, “four-hour parking” or “ten-hour parking”, and
such monthly parking spaces shall be clearly designated with appropriate sign
(s) bearing the words “monthly parking”.
(Ord. 3538, passed - -1997)
§ 22-6-43 LIMITED PARKING; VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Park or leave any vehicle in a two-hour parking space on a public off-
street parking lot for a period in excess of two consecutive hours, in a four-
hour parking space on a public off-street parking lot for a period in excess of
four consecutive hours, or in a ten-hour parking space on a public off-street
parking lot for a period in excess of ten consecutive hours, unless such person
holds a permit, issued pursuant to this article, to park the vehicle in such
space during periods not to exceed 72 consecutive hours;
   (B)   Park or leave for period in excess of 72 consecutive hours, in any
two-hour, four-hour, or ten-hour parking space on a public off-street parking
lot, any vehicle in respect of which a permit has been issued to park in such a
space during a period not to exceed 72 consecutive hours; or
   (C)   Park or leave any vehicle on any public off-street parking lot which
has been designated as a monthly parking lot as provided in this article,
without having an unexpired permit as provided in this article.
(Ord. 3538, passed - -1997)
§ 22-6-44 LIMITED PARKING; PERMIT; FEE.
   Upon application made to the City Clerk, upon a form supplied by the City
Clerk, for a permit to:
   (A)   Park or leave a vehicle for periods not to exceed 72 consecutive hours
in a parking space in a public off-street parking lot which has been designated
as a two-hour, four-hour or ten-hour parking space; or
   (B)   Park or leave a vehicle intermittently or continuously on a public
off-street parking lot on which, or a portion of which, neither two-hour, four-
hour, nor ten-hour parking spaces have been designated, and upon payment to the
City Clerk of a fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code, the City Clerk shall issue to the applicant
such a permit, which shall be effective for a period of one month from the date
of issuance, and shall be subject to renewal from month-to-month upon
application made and payment of the monthly fee. The permit shall identify the
vehicle to which it applies, bear the name of the applicant and the date of
expiration, and designate by number the public off-street parking lot(s) on
which the permitted parking may occur.
(Ord. 3538, passed - -1997)
§ 22-6-45 LIMITED PARKING; PERMIT; DISPLAY.
   Any permit issued pursuant to §
22-6-49 of this article shall be displayed in the applicable vehicle so as to
be readily readable outside the vehicle at all times during which the vehicle
is parked in a space or location to which the permit applies. If not so
displayed at a time when the parking would constitute a violation of §
22-6-43 of this subchapter in absence of a permit issued pursuant to §
22-6-44 of this article, it shall not be a defense to a citation for such a
violation that such a permit in fact had been issued.
(Ord. 3018, passed - -1987)
§ 22-6-46 PROVISIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to public off-street
parking lots, except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except as to
provisions of this chapter that clearly are not applicable to public off-street
parking lots.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1561, passed - -1966)
HANDICAPPED PARKING
§ 22-6-47 HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES; AUTHORIZED; MARKING; PERMIT DISPLAY.
   (A)   The City Council may, by ordinance or by resolution, designate certain
parking spaces on public streets or on off-street parking facilities owned or
operated by the city as “handicapped parking spaces”. In addition, any person
in lawful possession of an off-street parking facility may designate certain
parking spaces in the facility as “handicapped parking spaces”. Handicapped
parking spaces shall be available for the exclusive use of handicapped or
disabled persons whose vehicles display a:
      (1)   Distinguishing license plate issued to handicapped or disabled
persons pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113 or any later section covering this matter;
      (2)   Distinguishing license plate issued to handicapped or disabled
persons by another state;
      (3)   Permit issued to handicapped or disabled persons as provided for in
this article of the municipal code; or
      (4)   Permit issued for a vehicle to transport handicapped or disabled
persons as provided for in this article.
   (B)   All such permits shall be displayed by attaching the permit to the
motor vehicles rear view mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. When there is no rear view mirror, the permit shall be displayed on
the dashboard.
   (C)   All handicapped parking spaces shall be indicated by blue paint on the
curb or edge of the paved portion of a street, on a barrier curb in an off-
street parking facility, or in the parking space itself, and a sign posted
above ground and immediately adjacent to and visible from each handicapped
parking space as required by the latest edition of the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices adopted by the Nebraska Department of Roads.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§ 22-6-48 PARKING; REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any parking
space which has been designated as a handicapped parking space unless:
      (1)   There is displayed on the vehicle a form of identification as
provided for in §
22-6-47 of this subchapter; or
      (2)   When the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom, as the
case may be, the permit is issued will not enter or exit the vehicle while it
is parked in the designated space.
   (B)   If the identity of the person who parked a vehicle in violation of
this section cannot be readily determined, the party in whose name the vehicle
is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (C)   If there is posted above ground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from such handicapped parking space, a sign which clearly and
conspicuously states the area so designated as a “tow-in zone”, then a vehicle
not displaying the proper permit or distinguishing license plates may be
removed. The removal may be by the owner or person in lawful possession of an
off-street parking facility, after notification of the Police Department. As to
on-street parking and city-owned off-street parking facilities, the removal
shall be by the city.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§ 22-6-49 PERMIT; ELIGIBILITY.
   The City Clerk may take an application from a handicapped or disabled person
or temporarily handicapped or disabled person who resides within the city, or
his or her parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will
entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a vehicle for the purpose of
transporting such holder to park in handicapped parking space. For purposes of
this section, the handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person shall be considered the holder of the permit.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§ 22-6-50 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall complete
an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall complete the
application and medical forms provided to the City Clerk by the State
Department of Motor Vehicles. The City Clerk shall submit to the Department of
Motor Vehicles the name, address, and license number of all persons applying
for a permit pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§ 22-6-51 PERMIT; VEHICLE USED FOR TRANSPORTATION.
   The City Clerk may take an application from any person who resides within
the city for a motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a
person driving the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in
handicapped parking spaces if the motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle
for which it is issued is being used for the transportation of a handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person, and such person
will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such designated
spaces. A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall complete the forms provided by the City Clerk provided by
the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the City Clerk that
such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of handicapped or
disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. A copy of the
completed application form shall be given to each applicant. The City Clerk
shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the name, address, and license
number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§ 22-6-52 FEE.
   Persons applying for a handicapped parking permit shall pay the fee provided
in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§ 22-6-53 LIMIT.
   A vehicle authorized to park in a handicapped parking space shall not be
parked in a space for a period of time longer than is allowed for other parking
spaces in the area in which the handicapped parking space is located, and
reasonably necessary to enable the handicapped or disabled person to engage in
the business which is the occasion for the parking.
(Ord. 3257, passed - -1992)
§ 22-6-54 LIMIT; EXCEPTION.
   A person holding a permit issued pursuant to this article may make
application to the City Clerk, on a form supplied by the City Clerk, for a
permit to park a vehicle in a regular or handicapped parking space for a period
of time not to exceed ten consecutive hours. The City Clerk may issue a permit
for good cause shown which may include the need to park near a place of
employment. The permit shall be issued for parking within one block of a
particular location. No fee shall be charged for this permit other than the
normal permit fee charged pursuant to this article. The permit shall specify
the name the holder, identify the vehicle to which it applies, the expiration
date, the address of the location for which the permit is issued, and whether
the permit applies to a regular space or a handicapped space. All permits
issued pursuant to this section shall expire on each January 1 following
issuance and may be renewed by making application for a new permit.
(Ord. 3257, passed - -1992)
§ 22-6-55 CITATION.
   (A)   For any violation of §
22-6-48 of this subchapter, a handicapped parking citation may be issued by any
police officer or parking enforcement clerk. When a handicapped parking
citation is issued:
      (1)   The person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall enter
thereon all required information, including the name and address of the cited
person, or, if not known, the license number and description of the offending
motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person cited is
to appear in court. One copy of the handicapped parking citation shall be
delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor vehicle;
      (2)   Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the time of
appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the handicapped
parking citation;
      (3)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the
cited person, either the City Attorney or Deputy City Attorney or other person
authorized by law to issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue
and file a complaint. If a complaint is not filed in a timely manner, the
person charged shall be released from the obligation to appear as specified in
the citation; and
      (4)   A person cited for a handicapped parking violation may waive his or
her right to trial.
   (B)   For any handicapped parking citation issued by reason of the failure
of the vehicle to display a handicapped parking permit, the complaint shall be
dismissed, if, within seven business days after the date of issuance of the
citation, the person cited files with the court an affidavit signed by a peace
officer certifying that the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own
right of a handicapped parking permit and that the peace officer has personally
viewed the permit. The trial of any person charged under this section shall be
by the court without a jury.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§ 22-6-56 RESTRICTED USE; ALTERATION; FALSE INFORMATION; PROHIBITED.
   Handicapped parking permits shall not be transferable and shall be used only
by the party to whom issued and for the motor vehicle for which issued and only
for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall alter or reproduce in
any manner a handicapped parking permit. No person shall knowingly hold more
than one permit or knowingly provide false information on an application for a
handicapped parking permit.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§ 22-6-57 PENALTY.
   A person convicted of violating §§
22-6-48 or
22-6-56 of this subchapter shall pay the costs of prosecution and be fined:
   (A)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
   (B)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a one-year period; or
   (C)   Not more than $300 for a third or subsequent offense within a one-year
period.
(Ord. 3499, passed - -1996)
§§ 22-6-58 – 22-6-60 RESERVED.
SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
§ 22-6-61 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES; DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The streets described below are hereby declared to be snow emergency
routes in the city. Appropriate signs or other traffic-control devices shall be
installed indicating the existence of such snow emergency routes. A designation
of any street, avenue, road, or highway or a portion thereof, as a snow
emergency route shall in no way affect designation of that street, avenue,
road, or highway for any other purpose.
   (B)   The snow emergency routes are:
5th Avenue from South Beltline Highway to 42nd Street
20th Street from South Beltline Highway to 21st Avenue
21st Avenue from 7th Street to Highway 26
27th Street from west city limits to 21st Avenue
Avenue I from South Beltline Highway to Highway 26
Avenue B from South Beltline Highway to 42nd Street
Broadway from South Beltline Highway to 27th Street
East Overland from Broadway to 21st Avenue
South Beltline Highway from east city limits to West Overland
West Overland from Broadway to South Beltline Highway
 
(Ord. 3797, passed - -2004)
§ 22-6-62 PROHIBITION OF PARKING ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   Whenever the City Manager, Public Works Director, or Police Chief shall
find, on the basis of falling snow, accumulated snow, sleet, or freezing rain,
or on the basis of an official forecast by the National Weather Service of
snow, snow accumulation, sleet, or freezing rain, that weather conditions will
make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking on
city snow emergency routes be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing and
other purposes, the City Manager, Public Works Director, or Police Chief may
put into effect a parking prohibition on any or all snow emergency routes by
declaring that emergency conditions exist and that all parking on said streets
so designated shall be prohibited. In such declaration of emergency conditions,
the City Manager, Public Works Director, or Police Chief shall state the time
that said emergency shall be in effect and from the time so designated, all
parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes so designated shall be
prohibited. While the prohibition is in effect, no person shall allow any motor
vehicle to remain parked on any portion of a snow emergency route. The parking
prohibition imposed under this section shall remain in effect until terminated
by declaration of the City Manager, Public Works Director, or Police Chief.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking at any time or
place when or where it is prohibited by any other provision of law.
(Ord. 3797, passed - -2004)
§ 22-6-63 EMERGENCY DECLARATION.
   The City Manager, Public Works Director, or Police Chief shall cause each
declaration of a snow emergency made by him or her, pursuant to this article,
to be publically announced on any commercial radio or television station which
maintains a studio in the county. Such announcement shall describe the action
taken by the City Manager, Public Works Director, or Police Chief including the
time it became or will become effective, and shall specify the streets or areas
affected. The City Manager, Public Works Director, or Police Chief shall make
or cause to be made a record of each time and date when any declaration is
announced to the public by issuing an executive order as soon after the
declaration of an emergency as is feasible.
§ 22-6-64 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES OR DESIGNATED
ARTERIAL AND RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   Whenever an emergency has been declared pursuant to this article, no person
operating a motor vehicle on a designated snow emergency route shall allow such
motor vehicle to become stalled or stuck, including those motor vehicles which
become stalled or stuck due to the fact that the motor fuel supply is exhausted
or the battery has become inoperative. Whenever a motor vehicle becomes stalled
or stuck for any reason on any designated snow emergency route on which there
is a parking prohibition in effect, the person operating such motor vehicle
shall take immediate action to remove such vehicle from such designated snow
emergency route. No person shall abandon or leave a motor vehicle in the
roadway of a designated snow emergency route, except for the purpose of
securing assistance during the actual time necessary to go to a nearby
telephone, garage, service station, or other place of assistance and return
without delay.
(Ord. 3797, passed - -2004)
§ 22-6-65 WINDROWS AND REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   Upon the removal or moving of snow, by the city, from streets or avenues
located within the corporate limits of the city, and the creation of any
windrows, or piles of snow left around a vehicle, said vehicle must be moved
within 12 hours from the date of the creation of the windrow or pile of snow to
a location at least 100 feet from the nearest windrow located upon the portion
of public right-of-way used for vehicular traffic, or to be moved upon
privately-owned property.
(Ord. 3797, passed - -2004)
§ 22-6-66 CURB SIDEWALK AREAS AND PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   It is hereby specifically provided that in areas where curb sidewalks exist,
if and when it becomes necessary to plow snow from the street on to such curb
sidewalks, it shall become the abutting property owner’s responsibility to have
such snow removed as provided by law. It is also hereby provided that when snow
from the streets is plowed into private driveways, it shall not be the
responsibility of the city to remove such snow therefrom. It is further
declared that those vehicles not moved from streets during snow emergency may
have snow plowed up against said vehicle and it will be the sole responsibility
of property owner or owner of vehicle to have said snow removed from vehicles
left parked along snow routes.
(Ord. 3797, passed - -2004)
§ 22-6-67 VIOLATION OF VEHICLES PARKING ON EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTES.
   A violation of any provision of this article shall be punishable by a $50
fine.
(Ord. 3885, passed - -2005)
ARTICLE 7: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
22-7-1   Pedestrians; jaywalking; prohibited
   
22-7-2   Signs and signals; interference with; prohibited
   
22-7-3   Same; unofficial; prohibited; nuisances; abatement
   
22-7-4   Government vehicles; chapter; applicable
   
22-7-5   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles
§ 22-7-1 PEDESTRIANS; JAYWALKING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross a street at any point other
than a pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or street intersection, or to cross any
street intersection diagonally.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-7-2 SIGNS AND SIGNALS; INTERFERENCE WITH; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to deface, injure, remove,
obstruct, or otherwise interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-7-3 SAME; UNOFFICIAL; PROHIBITED; NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display upon or
in view of any street any unofficial sign, signal, or device which purports to
be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic sign or signal, or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official sign or signal. Every such
prohibited sign, signal, or device is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
and any police officer is hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to
be removed, without notice.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-7-4 GOVERNMENT VEHICLES; CHAPTER; APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any vehicle and any driver of
any vehicle owned by or operated in the service of the United States
government, any state, and any governmental subdivision thereof, including the
city. It shall be unlawful for any such driver to fail or refuse to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-7-5 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section:
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is 50 inches
or less in width, has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less, travels on four or
more low-pressure tires, is designed for operator use only with no passengers,
or is specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and
one passenger, has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator,
and has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly-maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is not less
than 48 inches, nor more than 74 inches in width, is not more than 135 inches
including the bumper, in length; has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds,
nor more than 2,000 pounds; travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and is
equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type seating designed for at
least two people to sit side-by-side. A UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include
golf carts, low-speed vehicles, or electric personal assistive mobility devices
as defined in §
3-1-5 of this code.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle may be operated on
streets and highways, other than a controlled-access highway with more than two
marked traffic lanes, within the corporate limits of the city, only if the
operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this article.
   (C)   It is unlawful to operate a three-wheeled all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle within the city limits.
   (D)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
at a speed in excess of 30 mph and shall observe posted speed limits if lower
than 30 mph.
   (E)   When operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle, the
headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on. Whenever an all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle is operated within the city, there shall be no
trailer attached to the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle, and all
cargo must be securely attached to the vehicle in such a manner that the cargo
remains secured without any assistance of the operator.
   (F)   Every all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall be equipped
with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than six feet above ground
attached to the rear of the vehicle. The safety flag shall be triangular in
shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in
color. Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall also be
equipped with a brake system maintained in good operating condition; an
adequate muffler system in good working condition; and a United States Forest
Service Qualified Spark Arrester.
   (G)   No person shall:
      (1)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle with a cutout, bypass or similar device;
      (2)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with an
exhaust system so modified; or
      (3)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with the
spark arrester removed or modified, except for use in a closed-course
competition event.
   (H)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
shall have obtained a valid Class O operator’s license or a farm permit from
the State Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Operator’s
License Act, being Neb. RS 60-401 et seq.
   (I)   The operator and any passenger of any all-terrain vehicle must wear a
helmet in compliance with Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282.
   (J)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
shall have liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or utility-
type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
within the city. The person operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer
requesting such proof within five days of such request. It shall be unlawful
for any person to operate any all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
within the city until the owner has demonstrated proof of insurance to the
Police Department and obtained an insurance decal for the current year. The
Police Department will issue a decal for the current year that must be affixed
to the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle in a conspicuous place. The
city will charge a fee of $25 for the issuance of the permit.
   (K)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated on
streets and highways without complying with divisions (C) through (I) above
while in parades which have been authorized by the state, any department,
board, commission, or political subdivision of the state.
   (L)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and
the crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. The crossing of any one of these streets or
avenues shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or avenue and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or avenue;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   The crossing is made only at an intersection of such street or
avenue with another street or avenue; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (M)   If an accident results in the death of any person or the injury of any
person which requires a treatment of the person by a physician, or causes
damage to the property of any person or entity in the apparent amount of more
than $1,000, the operator of each all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
involved in the accident shall give notice in the accident in the same manner
as provided by Neb. RS 60-699.
   (N)   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be
punished as provided in §
6-7-1 of this code, unless otherwise provided for in this article. In addition
to any penalties for violation hereof, the Police Department may impound any
all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle when operated in violation of state
law or city ordinance, in the same situation as any violation in connection
with a motor vehicle.
ARTICLE 8: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
22-8-1   Traffic supervision; generally; Police Chief; duty
   
22-8-2   Traffic signs, markers, and devices; installation
   
22-8-3   Traffic; Police Department; powers; duties; generally
   
22-8-4   Intersections; police officers, crossing guards, and volunteers;
authorization; duty
   
22-8-5   Emergency regulations; City Manager and Police Chief; power
   
22-8-6   Orders and signals; police officers, crossing guards, and volunteers;
compliance; required
   
22-8-7   Parking violation notice; destruction; failure to appear
   
22-8-8   Railroad crossings; watchpersons; authority; duties
   
22-8-9   Private premises; unauthorized parking; complaints
§ 22-8-1 TRAFFIC SUPERVISION; GENERALLY; POLICE CHIEF; DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to supervise generally the
administration and enforcement of traffic regulations of the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-8-2 TRAFFIC SIGNS, MARKERS, AND DEVICES; INSTALLATION.
   The City Manager shall designate an employee of the city to arrange for and
supervise the placing and installation of all traffic signs, markers, devices,
and traffic-control signals that are required by this municipal code.
(Ord. 3428, passed - -1995)
§ 22-8-3 TRAFFIC; POLICE DEPARTMENT; POWERS; DUTIES; GENERALLY.
   Subject to the provisions of §§
22-8-1 and
22-8-2 of this article, any police officer and Police Chief, city employee
designated by the Police Chief, or volunteer with the Volunteers in Police
Service (VIPS) or Community Emergency Response Team (CERT), are hereby
authorized, empowered, and ordered to exercise all powers and duties with
relation to the management of street traffic, and to direct, control, stop,
restrict, regulate and, when necessary, temporarily divert or exclude, in the
interest of public safety, health, and convenience, the movement of vehicular,
pedestrian and animal traffic of every kind in streets and parks, and on
bridges in the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 3969, passed - -2008)
§ 22-8-4 INTERSECTIONS; POLICE OFFICERS, CROSSING GUARDS AND VOLUNTEERS;
AUTHORIZATION; DUTY.
   The City Manager or the Police Chief may at any time authorize regulation of
traffic by police officers, by lay employees designated as crossing guards at
street intersections and crossings, except on state highways, or, if authorized
by the State Department of Roads, on state highways, and by volunteers through
to the Volunteers in Police Service (VIPS) or Community Emergency Response Team
(CERT) who are performing service for and under the supervision and control of
the Police Department. Every police officer, crossing guard, and member of the
Volunteers in Police Service (VIPS) or Community Emergency Response Team
(CERT), shall have authority to regulate and control traffic at the
intersections or crossings which such person is authorized by the Police
Department to regulate. It shall be such person’s duty to direct the movement
of traffic at such intersection or crossing in such a manner as will facilitate
traffic and prevent congestion and accidents.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2439, passed - -1978; Ord. 3969, passed - -
2008)
§ 22-8-5 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS; CITY MANAGER AND POLICE CHIEF; POWER.
   The City Manager or, in case of his or her absence or disability, the Police
Chief, is hereby empowered to make temporary traffic regulations in emergencies
or to respond to temporary situations, including but not limited to
construction projects in or near the city streets. It shall be unlawful for any
person to violate such regulations.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1168, passed - -1958; Ord. 3751, passed - -
2003)
§ 22-8-6 ORDERS AND SIGNALS; POLICE OFFICERS, CROSSING GUARDS, AND VOLUNTEERS;
COMPLIANCE; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer, crossing guard, or
volunteer with the Volunteers in Police Service (VIPS) or Community Emergency
Response Team (CERT), notwithstanding the presence of traffic signs, markers,
or devices.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2459, passed - -1978; Ord. 3969, passed - -
2008)
§ 22-8-7 PARKING VIOLATION NOTICE; DESTRUCTION; FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy any notice of parking
violation placed upon any vehicle by any officer or other employee of the
Police Department, or to fail to appear as directed in such notice.
(Ord. 2910, passed - -1985)
§ 22-8-8 RAILROAD CROSSINGS; WATCHPERSONS; AUTHORITY; DUTIES.
   Each watchperson stationed at a railroad crossing within the city shall have
authority to regulate and control traffic of vehicles at such crossing. It
shall be his or her duty to direct the movement of traffic at such crossing in
such a manner as will facilitate the movement of traffic, prevent congestion,
and accidents. He or she shall stop all movement of vehicles at such crossing
when any engine, car, or conveyance of the railroad company approaches such
crossing upon the tracks of such company, by holding a stop signal in his or
her hand extended straight out from his or her shoulder, and facing the street.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any lawful order or signal of
such watchperson.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
§ 22-8-9 PRIVATE PREMISES; UNAUTHORIZED PARKING; COMPLAINTS.
   Prosecution for parking or leaving standing vehicles on private premises in
violation of §
22-6-24 of this chapter shall be commenced only by a complaint in writing
signed by the person in possession of the premises. The complaint shall be in a
form prescribed by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1723, passed - -1968)
ARTICLE 9: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
22-9-1   Abandonment of vehicle; prohibited
   
22-9-2   Applicability of certain provisions
   
22-9-3   Vehicle pound; created
   
22-9-4   Same; location
   
22-9-5   Abandoned vehicles; impounding
   
22-9-6   Same; no number plates; value $250 or less; title
   
22-9-7   Same; disposition
   
22-9-8   Same; other than § 22-9-6; inquiry; notice
   
22-9-9   Same; claim to vehicle; charges
   
22-9-10   Same; title
   
22-9-11   Same; explanation; payment; protest
   
22-9-12   Same; trial; sale; refund
   
22-9-13   Same; sale; time
   
22-9-14   Same; proceeds; disposition
   
22-9-15   Owner of abandoned vehicle; liability
   
22-9-16   Owner and occupant of premises; city not liable
   
22-9-17   Impounding vehicles; enforcement; Police Chief; duty
   
22-9-18   Impounding vehicles; records; reports
   
22-9-19   Abandoned vehicles; Director of Motor Vehicles; regulations
   
22-9-20   Impounding vehicles; remedy; cumulative
   
22-9-21   Vehicle title; authority to sign
§ 22-9-1 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLE; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause any vehicle to be an abandoned
vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-2 APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to motor vehicles only.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1202, passed - -1958)
§ 22-9-3 VEHICLE POUND; CREATED.
   There is hereby created a pound for the impounding of vehicles, to be known
as the vehicle pound.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-4 SAME; LOCATION.
   The vehicle pound shall be at such location as the City Council, by
resolution, shall designate, or at such location as impounded vehicles are to
be stored pursuant to a contract for the removal and storage of such vehicles
which has been approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-5 ABANDONED VEHICLES; IMPOUNDING.
   A police officer may remove and convey, or cause to be removed and conveyed,
by towing or otherwise, to the vehicle pound any abandoned vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-6 SAME; NO NUMBER PLATES; VALUE $250 OR LESS; TITLE.
   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license plates
of the current year or valid in-transit decals issued pursuant to state law
affixed, and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition
of the vehicle of $250 or less, the title shall immediately vest in the city.
(Ord. 3627, passed - -1999)
§ 22-9-7 SAME; DISPOSITION.
   The city, in the discretion of the City Manager, may retain and use an
impounded abandoned automobile of the type described in §
22-9-6 of this article, sell it at a private sale or public auction, or
otherwise dispose of it. Provided, if the automobile be sold, the proceeds of
sale shall be applied, and the balance, if any, held and paid over as provided
in §
22-9-15 of this article.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-8 SAME; OTHER THAN § 22-9-6; INQUIRY; NOTICE.
   (A)   Except for vehicles governed by §
22-9-6 of this article, the Police Chief having custody of an abandoned vehicle
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
      (1)   Abandoned vehicles with license plates affixed, to the jurisdiction
which issued such license plates; or
      (2)   Abandoned vehicles with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, that
the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either it will be sold or will be offered at public auction
after five days from the date such notice was mailed or title will vest in the
city 30 days after the date such notice was mailed. If the agency described in
division (A)(1) or (2) above also notifies the Chief of Police that a lien or
mortgage exists, such notice shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee.
Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal
and storage of such vehicle.
(Ord. 3627, passed - -1999)
§ 22-9-9 SAME; CLAIM TO VEHICLE; CHARGES.
   Any person claiming an impounded abandoned vehicle of a type described in §
22-9-8 of this article shall make such claim to the Police Chief and shall,
before the vehicle is released from the pound, pay to the City Clerk the cost
of removal and storage of the vehicle as determined by the Police Chief. The
cost of removal and storage of vehicles generally shall be the reasonable cost
thereof as the City Council shall have determined by resolution; provided, if
the Police Chief shall determine that the reasonable cost of removal or storage
of trucks or trailers exceeds the cost of removal or storage of vehicles
generally as determined by a resolution of the City Council, the cost of
removal or storage of trucks or trailers shall be the reasonable cost thereof
as determined by the Police Chief.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-10 SAME; TITLE.
   (A)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the city
five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle will be sold or
offered at public auction under §
22-9-8(A)(1), 30 days after the date the notice is mailed if the Police Chief
will retain the vehicle, or if the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained,
when notice of such fact is received.
   (B)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to this chapter,
the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned vehicle. If the
Police Chief has determined that the vehicle should be retained for use, the
Police Chief shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the Police Chief intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for
its use and that title will vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
   (C)   When the city has custody of a motor vehicle for investigatory
purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, the Police Chief shall
send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners stating that the
vehicle is in the custody of the city, that the vehicle is no longer needed for
law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the city will dispose of the
vehicle. This section shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to forfeiture
under Neb. RS 28-431 or any amendment thereof. No storage fees shall be
assessed against the registered owner of a motor vehicle held in custody for
investigatory purposes under this section unless the registered owner or the
person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken into custody is charged
with a felony or misdemeanor related to the offense for which the city took the
vehicle into custody. If a registered owner of the person in possession of the
vehicle when it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor
but is not convicted, the registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the
storage fees.
(Ord. 3627, passed - -1999)
§ 22-9-11 SAME; EXPLANATION; PAYMENT; PROTEST.
   When the owner, operator, or other person asserting an interest in an
impounded abandoned vehicle of the type described in §
22-9-6 of this article makes a claim to the Police Chief for release of the
vehicle, it shall be the duty of the Police Chief to inform such person of the
nature and circumstances of the alleged violation on account of which such
vehicle has been impounded. If such person executes an affidavit denying the
facts upon which the impounding of the vehicle has been based, and protesting
against the payment of the above enumerated charges, but nevertheless pays the
charges, there shall be given him or her by the Police Chief a receipt therefor
marked “paid under protest”.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-12 SAME; TRIAL; SALE; REFUND.
   A charge filed as provided in §
22-9-11 of this article shall be tried and determined by the appropriate court
in the same manner as other charges of violations of ordinances of the city are
tried and determined. In addition, if the person charged is found by the court
to be guilty, the impounded vehicle shall be sold as provided in this article.
If, on the other hand, the person is found by the court to be not guilty, the
automobile shall be released to such person, and the City Clerk shall refund to
such person the amount, if any, of removal and storage charges which such
person has paid under protest.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-13 SAME; SALE; TIME.
   All vehicles of the type described in §
22-9-8 of this article which remains in the pound for a period of 30 days or
more may be sold to pay the removal and storage charges, unless the owner or
other person interested in the vehicle shall, prior to actual sale, pay to the
City Clerk the amount of such charges, together with such expenses of sale as
may have been incurred by the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-14 SAME; PROCEEDS; DISPOSITION.
   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less the removal and
storage charges and expenses, if any, of sale, shall be held by the City
Treasurer, without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of
such vehicle for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year
period, such proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 3627, passed - -1999)
§ 22-9-15 OWNER OF ABANDONED VEHICLE; LIABILITY.
   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to the
city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle and the expense, if
any, of sale thereof. If such costs and expense exceed the proceeds realized
upon a sale of the vehicle, such owner shall be liable to the city for the
excess.
(Ord. 3627, passed - -1999)
§ 22-9-16 OWNER AND OCCUPANT OF PREMISES; CITY NOT LIABLE.
   Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which any
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the city shall be liable for any loss or
damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal, or while in the
possession of the city or its contractual agent, or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
(Ord. 3627, passed - -1999)
§ 22-9-17 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES; ENFORCEMENT; POLICE CHIEF; DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief to see that the provisions of this
article pertaining to the abandoned vehicle pound and the impounding of
abandoned vehicles are enforced. The Police Chief may delegate to a subordinate
officer or officers the powers and duties vested in the Police Chief by this
article, except those specified in the following sections, and parts of
sections: §§
22-9-6,
22-9-7 (provisions pertaining to notice),
22-9-9 (provisions pertaining to trucks and trailers) and
22-9-10 of this article. Provided, the Police Chief may, in writing, delegate
to a subordinate officer the exercise of such excepted powers and duties in the
case of absence or disability of the Police Chief.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-18 IMPOUNDED VEHICLES; RECORDS; REPORTS.
   The Police Chief shall keep a record of the name of the owner of each
vehicle impounded, the number of the registration plate of such vehicle, the
nature and circumstances of each violation involved, and the disposition of
each case.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-19 ABANDONED VEHICLES; DIRECTOR OF MOTOR VEHICLES; REGULATIONS.
   The provisions in this article pertaining to abandoned vehicles shall be
subject to a regulation adopted by the Director of Motor Vehicles pursuant to
statute and, in the event of conflict between a provision of this article and a
regulation of the Director of Motor Vehicles, the regulation shall, to the
extent of the conflict, govern.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-20 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES; REMEDY; CUMULATIVE.
   Nothing in this article pertaining to the impounding of vehicles shall be
construed as superseding any other ordinance concerning the proper parking or
operation of vehicles of any character in the city, nor shall the impounding of
any vehicle and the collection of the charges and expenses in connection
therewith as in this article provided prevent or preclude prosecution for the
violation of any other provisions of any ordinance of vehicles in the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1906, passed - -1971)
§ 22-9-21 VEHICLE TITLE; AUTHORITY TO SIGN.
   When a vehicle is sold pursuant to the authority granted in this article,
the certificate of title and any other documents necessary to transfer title to
the buyer may be executed on behalf of the city by the
City Clerk, the Police Chief, or any Police Department captain.
ARTICLE 10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
Section
   
22-10-1   Violations; classification
   
22-10-2   Same; owner of vehicle; prima facie liable; when
   
22-10-3   Liability for recklessness and negligence; preserved
§ 22-10-1 VIOLATIONS; CLASSIFICATION.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter which is not specifically
classified otherwise is a Class II violation.
§ 22-10-2 SAME; OWNER OF VEHICLE; PRIMA FACIE LIABLE; WHEN.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter regulating the stopping, standing, parking, or operation of a vehicle,
proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was stopped,
standing, parked, or operated in violation of any such provision, together with
proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time of such
stopping, standing, parking, or operation the registered owner of such vehicle,
shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered
owner of such vehicle was the person who stopped, placed, parked, or operated
such vehicle at the point or points where, and for the time during which, such
violation occurred.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1445, passed - -1963)
§ 22-10-3 LIABILITY FOR RECKLESSNESS AND NEGLIGENCE; PRESERVED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed or pleaded as justifying,
absolving, or rendering blameless, either directly or indirectly, any person or
persons in charge of or owning any vehicle for any injury or damage to persons
or property due to recklessness, incompetency, or negligence in the operation
of any vehicle.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957)
CHAPTER 23: WATER
   Article
      
1.   WATER LINES; METERS
      
2.   WATER SERVICE
      
3.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
4.   BACKFLOW PREVENTION
      
5.   ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
      
6.   RESTRICTIONS; CIRCUMSTANCES; PENALTIES
ARTICLE 1: WATER LINES; METERS
Section
   
23-1-1   Public water system; extension; expense
   
23-1-2   Mains; ownership
   
23-1-3   Same; private construction; permission; effect
   
23-1-4   Same; plans; specifications; maintenance; damages
   
23-1-5   Mains; abutting and adjacent premises; connection
   
23-1-6   Same; exception; application
   
23-1-7   Same; permit; issuance
   
23-1-8   Same; subsequent inspections and tests; revocation of permit
   
23-1-9   Same; non-abutting premises; connection
   
23-1-10   Same; annexable premises; connection
   
23-1-11   Same; annexed premises
   
23-1-12   Premises outside corporate limits; connections; conditions;
disconnection
   
23-1-13   Same; service lines; specifications; expense and damages
   
23-1-14   Separate premises; service lines; meters
   
23-1-15   Fire main; connection; permit; maintenance expense
   
23-1-16   Premises within corporate limits; connections; application
   
23-1-17   Premises outside corporate limits; connection; approval
   
23-1-18   Same; application; form; content
   
23-1-19   Same; application; prior approval
   
23-1-20   Application to connect; fees
   
23-1-21   Same; fees; determination
   
23-1-22   Taps; installation
   
23-1-23   Same; planned unit development
   
23-1-24   Other connections; installed by whom
   
23-1-25   System to be connected; inspection; notice
   
23-1-26   Connections maintenance; repair
   
23-1-27   Service lines; leaks; shut off; repair
   
23-1-28   Meters; application; expense; installation
   
23-1-29   Same; specifications
   
23-1-30   Same; freezing; wrongful damage
   
23-1-31   Same; tests
   
23-1-32   Demolition and removal of building; disconnection; reconnection
§ 23-1-1 PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM; EXTENSION; EXPENSE.
   The cost of all water mains constructed or extended by the city, or by a
contractor for the city, within the corporate limits of the city shall, to the
extent of special benefits to lands and lots abutting upon any street, avenue,
or alley, or part thereof, within which the main or lateral has been
constructed, be assessed to such abutting lands and lots. Provided, water mains
of the city may, with the consent of the City Council, be extended by and at
the expense of an individual, firm, or corporation for the purpose of providing
water service to an area within the corporate limits of the city, or an area
outside of and not subject at that time to being brought within the corporate
limits of the city, either by voluntary action of the owner or by annexation.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-1-2 MAINS; OWNERSHIP.
   All water mains constructed or extended by the city shall be and remain the
property of the city, unless the City Council in a proper case shall make an
order concerning their transfer. Water mains not constructed or extended by the
city but connected with a water main of the city shall not become the property
of the city unless a transfer thereof to the city be accepted by the City
Council, or unless such main shall have been constructed or extended within the
right-of-way of a public street or alley of the city, or within an area that
subsequently becomes the right-of-way of a public street or alley of the city.
If constructed or extended within the right-of-way of a public street or alley
of the city, the main shall at that time become, without a formal transfer and
without expense to the city, the property of the city, unless the City Council
shall otherwise order. If constructed or extended within an area that
subsequently becomes the right-of-way of a public street or alley of the city,
the main shall, at the time when the area becomes such right-of-way, become,
without a formal transfer and without expense to the city, the property of the
city, unless the City Council shall otherwise order. For the purpose of this
section, a public alley or street of the city shall include not only a public
street or alley within the corporate limits, but also a public street or alley
that is outside the corporate limits but the right-of-way of which is owned by
the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-1-3 SAME; PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION; PERMISSION; EFFECT.
   Permission by the city to construct or extend mains that do not at the time
of construction or extension become the property of the city, or to make
connections from premises outside the corporate limits, shall not entail any
obligation on the part of the city to construct, extend, or maintain mains or
laterals to supply water to the mains in respect of which the permission was
granted, or to premises not within the corporate limits.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-1-4 SAME; PLANS; SPECIFICATIONS; MAINTENANCE; DAMAGES.
   Water mains that are to be constructed or extended, whether by the city or
by an individual, firm, or corporation at his, her, or its own expense, for the
purpose of carrying water supplied by the city shall reasonably conform to the
general plans, specifications, and purposes of the city water system as
determined by the City Council. Mains not the property of the city but carrying
water supplied by the city shall be maintained in good repair by the owners or,
as the case may be, the users of water carried thereby, without expense to the
city, and the owners and users shall be liable to the city in damages for any
injury the city, or persons to whom water is supplied by the city, may sustain
as a result of a failure to comply with this requirement.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-1-5 MAINS; ABUTTING AND ADJACENT PREMISES; CONNECTION.
   (A)   All plumbing in or on:
      (1)   Premises abutting upon a street or alley, or abutting upon or
adjacent to a strip of land which is subject to an easement for water mains in
which, opposite the premises, there is situated a water main, or premises which
themselves are subject to such an easement, if there is situated within the
area subject to the easement a water main or lateral, shall be connected to
such main or lateral.
   (B)   Any premises which is required to be connected to a public water main
shall be connected within five years after the owners of such premises are
ordered to do so by the City Manager or his or her designee. Provided however,
that if at any time during the five-year period, the ownership of the premises,
or any interest therein or any part thereof is transferred by conveyance,
inheritance, or otherwise to any person (other than to a bona fide lienholder),
who was not an owner of the premises at the time the order was given, the
premises shall be connected to a city water main within 90 days after the date
of the transfer. This division (B) shall have no application to any premises
upon which a building permit for any building which will have running water is
issued after the effective date of this article.
(Ord. 3601, passed - -1998)
§ 23-1-6 SAME; EXCEPTION; APPLICATION.
   If no building on the premises which requires a water supply is situated
less than 300 feet from the nearest water main, and water to a building
situated beyond that distance is supplied by a well on the same premises that
meets the requirements of the rules and regulations of the State Department of
Health, as determined by the Planning and Building Official, plumbing in such
building need not be connected to the water main so long as both of such
conditions continue to exist. A determination whether such conditions exist
shall be made by the Planning and Building Official upon a written application,
which shall be in such form as the Planning and Building Official prescribes,
be signed by the owner of the premises, and be filed with the Planning and
Building Official.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 2637, passed - -
1981)
§ 23-1-7 SAME; PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application as provided in §
23-1-6 of this article, the Planning and Building Official shall determine
whether the conditions prescribed by that section exist and, for this purpose,
may cause a survey to determine distance and test(s) of the well to be made,
unless the owner shall provide information which the Planning and Building
Official deems sufficient, and the reasonable expense of such survey and test
(s), if ordered, shall be paid by the owner to the city before a permit to
defer connecting to the water main may be issued.
   (B)   If the Planning and Building Official shall determine that the
conditions prescribed by §
23-1-6 of this article exist, and the owner shall have paid to the city the
expense of a survey or test(s) of the well ordered by the Planning and Building
Official, the Planning and Building Official shall issue to the owner of the
premises a permit to defer connecting the plumbing in the building to the water
main so long as the conditions prescribed by that section continue to exist.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 2637, passed - -
1981)
§ 23-1-8 SAME; SUBSEQUENT INSPECTIONS AND TESTS; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Planning and Building Official, or his or her authorized designee, shall
have a right at any reasonable time to enter and inspect the premises and to
cause tests of the well to be made, for the purpose of determining whether the
well is continuing to comply with the condition in §
23-1-6 of this article. If the Planning and Building Official, after notice to
the owner and a hearing, shall determine that the building or, as the case may
be, the well has ceased to comply with the conditions in that section, the
Official may revoke the permit, and the owner shall thereupon cause the
plumbing to be connected to a water main.
(Ord. 2637, passed - -1981)
§ 23-1-9 SAME; NON-ABUTTING PREMISES; CONNECTION.
   If premises are not located in relation to a water main as described in §
23-1-5 of this article, but the owner desires to have the premises connected
with the city water system, and application therefor is made and granted as
provided in this article, the City Manager, or the designee of the City
Manager, shall install such a connection on the conditions and in the manner
hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 2678, passed - -1981)
§ 23-1-10 SAME; ANNEXABLE PREMISES; CONNECTION.
   No water main of the city shall be constructed or extended to serve, and no
connection shall be made to a water main of the city from, premises that are
outside the corporate limits of the city but that are subject at that time to
being brought within the corporate limits by voluntary action of the owner or
by annexation.
(Ord 2678, passed - -1981)
§ 23-1-11 SAME; ANNEXED PREMISES.
   Anything in this article to the contrary notwithstanding, in the case of
premises that have been annexed to the corporate limits of the city since
January 1, 1956, or that shall be annexed subsequent to December 29, 1981, all
plumbing on the premises shall be connected as provided in §
23-1-5 of this article, unless the premises were connected prior to annexation
to a well on the premises to which they have remained connected, if and so long
as such well is approved by the County Health Department.
(Ord. 2709, passed - -1981)
§ 23-1-12 PREMISES OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS; CONNECTIONS; CONDITIONS;
DISCONNECTION.
   Connections may be made to a water main of the city from premises that are
outside the corporate limits of the city and are not subject at that time to
being brought within the corporate limits either by voluntary action of the
owner or by annexation, and water from such mains so connected may be used, on
the terms and conditions set forth in the succeeding sections of this chapter.
Provided, the City Council from time to time may adopt such different or
additional terms and conditions governing the connection to and use of water
from such mains as in its judgment are necessary or proper, and are according
to law; and such additional terms and conditions shall be applicable to
connections that have been made prior, as well as to those that may be made
subsequent, to the adoption of such terms and conditions. Provided, further, if
the City Council shall determine that the water system of the city has become
inadequate to supply water to premises outside the corporate limits of the
city, or, if premises become subject to being brought within the corporate
limits of the city by voluntary action of the owner but the owner, after being
requested by the city, fails or refuses to plat and dedicate such premises as
an addition to the city, the City Manager may disconnect the service line to
such premises from the main of the city.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-1-13 SAME; SERVICE LINES; SPECIFICATIONS; EXPENSE AND DAMAGES.
   Service lines outside the corporate limits of the city that are, or are to
be, connected to a main carrying water supplied by the city shall meet such
specifications and be constructed in such manner as shall reasonably conform,
as the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall determine, to
the general plans, specifications, and purposes of the city water system. They
shall be constructed by the intended owners or users without expense to the
city, and shall be maintained in good repair by the owners or, as the case may
be, users without expense to the city. The owners and users shall be liable to
the city in damages for any injury the city, or persons to whom water is
supplied by the city, may sustain as a result of failure to comply with this
requirement.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-1-14 SEPARATE PREMISES; SERVICE LINES; METERS.
   Each separate premises shall be supplied with water through a separate
service line and separate meter. For purposes of this chapter, each dwelling
house and its appurtenances, each apartment house, and each business building
shall constitute a separate premises. Provided, two or more dwellings or
apartment houses or no more than two business buildings (together with their
appurtenances) situated on a single lot or tract of land under common ownership
may, at the election of the owner, constitute a single premises for purposes of
this chapter. However, if the business buildings are leased, sold, or are
transferred in any way, or the single lot or tract of land is subdivided and no
longer commonly owned, then each business building will be deemed a separate
premises and be supplied with water through a separate service line and
separate meter. Provided further, distinct businesses in one business building
shall constitute separate premises, except that in a planned business center
which is authorized and constructed in accordance with Chapter 25 of this code,
more than one distinct business, whether in the same or separate building(s),
may be supplied with water through a common service line if separate meters are
installed for each business. Provided, further, where a business building and
residence both occupy the same lot and are occupied by the same person, such
business building and residence shall constitute but one premises.
(Ord. 2947, passed - -1985; Ord. 4120, passed - -2014)
§ 23-1-15 FIRE MAIN; CONNECTION; PERMIT; MAINTENANCE EXPENSE.
   Proprietors of business establishments in which are installed fire hydrants
and hose couplings, or a fire sprinkler system, may connect such hydrants or
sprinkler system by fire mains to the water mains at their own expense upon
application to the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, and under
the supervision of that individual. Such connections shall be kept in good
repair without cost to the city.
(Ord. 3445, passed - -1995)
§ 23-1-16 PREMISES WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS; CONNECTIONS; APPLICATION.
   If the owner of premises situated within the city desires to have plumbing
in or on the premises connected with a water main of the city water system,
such owner, or a contractor of the owner with the consent in writing of the
owner, shall file with the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager,
an application in writing requesting such connection, and installation of a
meter.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-1-17 PREMISES OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS; CONNECTION; APPROVAL.
   Connections to a water main of the city from premises that are outside the
corporate limits of the city and are not subject at that time to being brought
within the corporate limits of the city may be made only after obtaining
approval of the City Council, and complying with the other conditions set forth
in this and succeeding sections of this article and of
Chapter 21 of this code, as amended. Subsequent extensions of or additional
connections to such mains or laterals may be made only after obtaining approval
of the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, and complying with
the other conditions set forth in this and succeeding sections of this article
and of
Chapter 21 of this code, as amended. If the line to be connected is a service
line, application for a permit to connect shall, after approval of the
application by the City Council, or, as the case may be, the City Manager, also
be filed with the Plumbing Inspector.
§ 23-1-18 SAME; APPLICATION; FORM; CONTENT.
   Application for a permit to connect to a water main of the city a main,
lateral, or service line from premises outside the corporate limits of the
city, or to extend or make additional connections to a main outside the
corporate limits of the city which has been connected to a water main of the
city, shall be made in writing and filed with the Plumbing Inspector. The
application, if for a permit to connect or extend a main, shall be signed by
the owner of the main, and shall be accompanied by complete plans and
specifications of the water system proposed to be connected or extended, which
shall show the location, grade, size, type of material, and number of
connections of the proposed system, the ground level, and the type of occupancy
of the premises. If the application is for a permit to connect a service line,
the application shall be signed by the owner of the premises to be served, or
by his or her contractor with the consent of the owner in writing, and shall
include a request that a meter be installed. 
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-1-19 SAME; APPLICATION; PRIOR APPROVAL.
   The application to connect or extend a water main which is referred to in §
23-1-18 of this article shall not be approved except after approval by the City
Manager or the designee of the City Manager, of the plans and specifications
accompanying the application, and the construction.
§ 23-1-20 APPLICATION TO CONNECT; FEES.
   Before a permit to connect to a water main of the city shall be issued, all
applicable fees provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code shall be paid. All fees shall be placed in
the Water Fund of the city, and shall not be subject to refund.
(Ord. 3195, passed - -1991)
§ 23-1-21 SAME; FEES; DETERMINATION.
   The amount of the fee which, by the terms of this article, is to be
determined as provided in the present section, shall be such amount as the City
Council, by a resolution of general applicability, shall have determined to
represent the reasonable cost to the city of labor, material, equipment, and
equipment use to be furnished in tapping a main, installing the part of the
connection situated within any street, alley, or strip of land subject to an
easement for purposes of a public water main, and installing the meter and
remote reader.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2455, passed - -1979)
§ 23-1-22 TAPS; INSTALLATION.
   Once a permit to tap a water main of the city has been granted the City
Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall tap the main and install
any part of the water connection that is within the right-of-way of the city
street, alley, or easement for water main. Provided, the installation may be
made by a master plumber licensed by the city under the supervision of the City
Manager, or the designee of the City Manager. The water connection shall use
copper or PVC C-901 tubing not less than one-inch in diameter between the water
main and the curb stop, corporation cock, ferrule, or curb stop box, and shall
include other attachments and devices as may be necessary and proper.
(Ord. 3195, passed - -1991)
§ 23-1-23 SAME; PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   Anything in §
23-1-22 of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, if a connection is to
be made to property concerning which the Planning Commission shall have issued
a special permit authorizing the development of a planned unit development as
provided in Chapter 25 of this code, the City Council may, with respect to such
development, or a part thereof, waive or modify the requirement in §
23-1-22 of this code concerning the minimum diameter of water connections
between the main or lateral and the curb stop to permit connections not less
than three-quarters inch in diameter.
(Ord. 3044, passed - -1987)
§ 23-1-24 OTHER CONNECTIONS; INSTALLED BY WHOM.
   No other connections to mains of the city, or which are situated within a
street or alley of the city or in a strip of land in respect of which there
exists an easement for public water mains or laterals, shall be made except by
the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, or under the supervision
of the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, by a master plumber
licensed by the city.
§ 23-1-25 SYSTEM TO BE CONNECTED; INSPECTION; NOTICE.
   Such employee of the city as the City Manager shall designate shall have
authority to inspect the construction of water lines and other parts of a water
system proposed to be connected to a main of the city or which is situated in a
street or alley of the city or in a strip of land in respect of which there
exists an easement for public water mains or laterals, to determine whether
such line and other parts of the system comply with the plans and
specifications as approved, and with good engineering practice as to matters
not specified. For this purpose, such officer or employee shall have the right
to enter the premises on which the system to be connected, or any part thereof,
is situated. If such construction shall not conform to the plans and
specifications as approved, and with good engineering practice as to matters
not specified, the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall so
notify the person to whom a permit to connect was issued.
§ 23-1-26 CONNECTIONS; MAINTENANCE; REPAIR.
   The City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall, at the expense
of the city, maintain and repair and, when necessary or proper, replace such
part of the water connection extending from the main to and including the curb
stop and curb stop box as is situated within a public street or alley of the
city or a strip of land which is subject to an easement for a public water
main.
§ 23-1-27 SERVICE LINES; LEAKS; SHUT OFF; REPAIR.
   If any leak or break in any service line occurs between the curb stop box
and the meter on premises of the consumer or owner, the City Manager, or the
designee of the City Manager, shall forthwith shut off the water supply to such
premises until such leak or break has been repaired by the consumer or owner.
In the event the city makes such repair, the cost of the repair will be billed
to the consumer or owner and shall be considered part of the charges owed by
the consumer or owner and upon failure to pay shall be subject to
discontinuance under §
25-2-11 of this code.
(Ord. 4307, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 23-1-28 METERS; APPLICATION; EXPENSE; INSTALLATION.
   Application for installation of a meter shall be made in writing to the City
Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, by the owner of the premises or
his or her contractor, and shall be accompanied by payment of an amount equal
to the cost to the city of the meter and of the installation thereof, as
determined by the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager. The City
Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall install a meter when the
application therefor shall have been approved and the amount of the cost shall
have been paid. The meter shall be installed in the service line.
§ 23-1-29 SAME; SPECIFICATIONS.
   All water meters installed in the water system of the city shall be three-
fourths inch or larger, shall measure in terms of gallons of water consumed,
and shall be of a uniform standard quality of a type and kind approved by the
City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager. Provided, in a planned
business center district in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 25 of
this code, a business having five or fewer plumbing fixture units may be served
by a five-eights inch by three-fourths inch meter and a three-fourths inch
water service.
(Ord. 2947, passed - -1985)
§ 23-1-30 SAME; FREEZING; WRONGFUL DAMAGE.
   Every consumer or owner shall protect the meter against damage by freezing.
If a meter shall be damaged by freezing, or by the negligence or willful act or
conduct of the consumer or owner, the expense of repairing such damage shall
not be paid by the city and shall be charged to and paid by the consumer or
owner and shall be considered part of the water charges owed for water and paid
before they become delinquent according to §
23-2-11 of this code.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4307, passed 9-
18-2023)
§ 23-1-31 SAME; TESTS.
   All water meters may be tested at the expense of the city at reasonable
times either at the instance of the city or at the request of the consumer.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-1-32 DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL OF BUILDING; DISCONNECTION: RECONNECTION.
   Demolition or removal of a building containing plumbing which is connected
to the city’s water system shall not be commenced until the owner shall have
notified the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, of an intention
so to do, and the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall have
disconnected and plugged the service line. Before reconnecting such premises to
the water system, the City Manager, or his or her designee, shall determine
whether the service line complies with the minimum requirements of this
chapter. If the service line does not comply with such requirements, the
premises shall not be reconnected until a service line complying with such
requirement shall have been installed by the owner of the premises, and an
application to connect the line shall have been filed and approved as in the
case of connection of a service line to the premises in the first instance.
ARTICLE 2: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
23-2-1   Meter system; established
   
23-2-2   Water service rates
   
23-2-3   Same; minimum charges
   
23-2-4   Water service; application for
   
23-2-5   Water for construction use; meters; charges
   
23-2-6   Meters and reading
   
23-2-7   Access to meters, pipes, fixtures, and entry on premises
   
23-2-8   Water charges; due and delinquent; when; penalty; where payable
   
23-2-9   Same; statements
   
23-2-10   Delinquent bills; collections; suit
   
23-2-11   Discontinuance and resumption of service; fee
   
23-2-12   Same; fee; determination
   
23-2-13   Same; assessment against property; lien; exception
   
23-2-14   Same; remedies; cumulative
   
23-2-15   Reserved
   
23-2-16   Abandonment and destruction of premises; notice; discontinuance of
service
   
23-2-17   Water system; repairs; extension; suspension of service
   
23-2-18   Fires; water use during
   
23-2-19   Sprinkling lawns and gardens; irrigation; water use for; suspension
   
23-2-20   Suspension of service; liability
   
23-2-21   Repealed
   
23-2-22   Consumer’s contract; rules, regulations, and water rates; amendments;
effect
§ 23-2-1 METER SYSTEM; ESTABLISHED.
   All water furnished by the city water system to private consumers shall be
furnished through a meter, except as hereinafter otherwise provided, and at the
rates hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-2-2 WATER SERVICE RATES.
   Each user of the city water system located within the city limits shall pay
charges based on monthly consumption as provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3395, passed - -1994; Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 4310, passed 9-
25-2023)
§ 23-2-3 SAME; MINIMUM CHARGES.
   Each user of the city water system located within the city limits shall pay
minimum bi-monthly charges as provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code.
(Ord. 3395, passed - -1994; Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 23-2-4 WATER SERVICE; APPLICATION FOR.
   Each person or persons, company, or corporation desiring a supply of water
must make application therefor to the City Manager, or the designee of the City
Manager, upon blanks to be furnished by him or her for that purpose. The
applicant shall also furnish any and all additional information relative to the
water connection and the plumbing in connection therewith as the City Manager,
or the designee of the City Manager, may require. All applications must be made
by the owner of the premises to which the water is to be delivered, or by the
owner’s duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-2-5 WATER FOR CONSTRUCTION USE; METERS; CHARGES.
   Any property owner or contractor desiring water for construction purposes
shall make application therefor in writing to the City Manager, of the designee
of the City Manager. Such water shall be supplied through a meter unless the
City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall determine that there
exists practical difficulties which render the use of a meter not reasonably
possible. Where the use of a meter has been so determined not to be reasonably
possible, the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, using proper
data and methods, shall estimate the quantity of water so used. Provided, the
minimum charge for water supplied for such purpose during each bi-monthly
period, or fraction thereof, shall be an amount equal to the minimum charge for
40,000 gallons as provided in this code.
(Ord. 3563, passed - -1997; Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 23-2-6 METERS AND READING.
   All meters of consumers shall be read by the City Manager, or his or her
designee, not less than one time during each period for which water service
charges are payable. All meter readings shall be recorded on standard forms in
a book of original entry that the City Manager, or the designee of the City
Manager, shall keep or cause to be kept for that purpose. Should any meter
become out of repair and fail to register properly, or not be readable for any
other reason, the consumer shall be charged for the quantity of water shown by
the meter reading for the corresponding period of the previous year on the same
premises. Provided, when no water was provided and billed for such premises for
the corresponding period of the previous year, the consumer shall be charged on
the basis of the meter reading for comparable uses during the same period in
the city.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 23-2-7 ACCESS TO METERS, PIPES, FIXTURES, AND ENTRY ON PREMISES.
   The consumer shall provide ready and convenient access to the meter or, as
the case may be, the remote reader so that it may be easily examined, read, and
maintained by the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager. All
consumers shall permit the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager,
at all hours between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., to enter the premises or building
for the purpose of inspecting, testing, repairing, or replacing any meter, or
of inspecting pipes or other fixtures.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 23-2-8 WATER CHARGES; DUE AND DELINQUENT; WHEN; PENALTY; WHERE PAYABLE.
   All charges made by the city for water furnished under this article shall
become due and payable after water has been furnished, and shall be delinquent
15 days after the date of the bill. A penalty for late payment, in an amount of
10% of the water charges, shall be added to each bill when payment has become
delinquent. Provided, the city, at the discretion of the City Manager, may
collect in advance for water furnished special users who are not regular
consumers of city water. All such charges shall be payable at the office of the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 3104, passed - -1988; Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 23-2-9 SAME; STATEMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall make, or cause to be made, prior to the date when
charges for water are due, statements to each private consumer for water
furnished to the consumer. Such statements shall be in writing, shall set forth
the amount due from the consumer for water used or furnished between the last
regular reading of the customer’s meter and the previous reading thereof, and
shall state the meter reading in gallons for the current period and the meter
reading in gallons during the previous period. Such statements shall be mailed
or otherwise delivered to consumers.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-2-10 DELINQUENT BILLS; COLLECTIONS; SUIT.
   In the event a bill for water service or other billable charges for repair
of the water system is not paid before the same becomes delinquent, the City
Clerk shall collect the entire bill. Any payment that does not include the full
amount of such bill shall not bar recovery by the city of the unpaid balance,
but such unpaid balance shall remain a liability of the delinquent consumer or
owner, and suit may be brought in the name of the city for the collection
thereof.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021; Ord. 4307, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 23-2-11 DISCONTINUANCE AND RESUMPTION OF SERVICE; FEE.
   (A)   The City Manager, or designee of the City Manager, is hereby
authorized to shut off or disconnect the water service of any consumer or owner
after the bill for water charges or other billable charges of the consumer or
owner shall have become delinquent. A fee in an amount determined as provided
in §
23-2-12 of this article shall be paid upon the turning on or reconnection of
water service under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any water service has been shut off or disconnected by reason
of delinquency in payment of a bill for water charges; or
      (2)   When water service has been shut off or disconnected at the request
of the consumer and the same consumer requests that service be reconnected
within 30 days after the request to shut off or disconnect water service.
   (B)   The fee provided in this section shall not be charged if the
disconnection was for the purpose of making repairs. When water has been shut
off or disconnected for non-payment of a bill, it shall not be turned on
without an order of the City Manager, or a designee of the City Manager, and
payment of the fee described in this section. Any person turning on water
without an order of the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager,
shall be liable for unpaid water charges, other billable charges and resumption
of service fee.
(Ord. 3879, passed 11-7-2005; Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 4307, passed 9-
18-2023)
§ 23-2-12 SAME; FEE; DETERMINATION.
   The amount of the fee to which reference is made in §
23-2-11 of this article shall be such amount as the City Council, by a
resolution of general applicability, shall have determined to represent the
reasonable cost to the city of equipment, equipment use, and labor required to
make the shut off or disconnection and to turn on or reconnect the water
service.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 2451, passed - -1979; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-2-13 SAME; ASSESSMENT AGAINST PROPERTY; LIEN; EXCEPTION.
   All delinquent charges for water service under this article shall be a lien
upon the real estate to which the water service is supplied. Any delinquent
charges for water service which remain unpaid for three months after they
become due may be, by resolution of the City Council, assessed against the real
estate as a special assessment. The special assessment shall be certified by
the City Clerk to the County Clerk. The County Clerk shall place the assessment
on the tax rolls for collection by the County Treasurer, subject to the same
penalties and to be collected in the same manner as other city taxes. Provided,
the City Clerk shall notifying writing any non-occupying owners of the real
estate or their agents whenever their tenants are 60 days delinquent in the
payment of their water charges. If in response to that notice, the real estate
owner or his or her agent notifies the City Clerk in writing to discontinue
water service, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to notify the City
Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, who shall cause the service to be
discontinued. Any charges for water service furnished to the occupants of the
real estate contrary to the owner’s notice shall not be a lien on the real
estate.
(Ord. 3150, passed - -1990; Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 23-2-14 SAME; REMEDIES; CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies prescribed by this article for the collection of delinquent
rents and charges shall be deemed cumulative and not exclusive.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-2-15 RESERVED.
§ 23-2-16 ABANDONMENT AND DESTRUCTION OF PREMISES; NOTICE; DISCONTINUANCE OF
SERVICE.
   If any consumer shall move from the premises, or the building on the
premises shall be destroyed by fire, he or she shall promptly notify the City
Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, thereof, and the City Manager, or
the designee of the City Manager, shall cause the water to such premises to be
shut off.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 23-2-17 WATER SYSTEM; REPAIRS; EXTENSION; SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right at all times to shut off the water supply for
necessary repairs or extensions.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-2-18 FIRES; WATER USE DURING.
   The Fire Chief shall have authority by order to prohibit the opening of, and
to order closed, any hydrant, sillcock, tap, faucet, or other connection of any
description on any water line of the city, whether inside or outside of the
city, during the progress of any fire within or adjacent to the city; and it
shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to fail to comply immediately with
such an order.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-2-19 SPRINKLING LAWNS AND GARDENS; IRRIGATION; WATER USE FOR; SUSPENSION.
   The city reserves the right to suspend the use of water for sprinkling
lawns, gardens, or for irrigation purposes, whenever in the opinion of City
Council, the public exigency may require it.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-2-20 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE; LIABILITY.
   Neither the city nor any officer or employee thereof shall be liable for
damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any consumer for non-
payment of charges for water service, while the city water system or any part
thereof is undergoing repairs, or caused by the freezing of a main or lateral
or the breaking of any pipe, service cock, or other equipment, by a shortage of
water due to accident or lack of capacity of the system, by an act of God, or
by circumstances over which the city has no control. The enumeration herein of
damages for which the city and its officers and employees shall not be liable
shall not be construed as an assumption of liability for damages not
enumerated.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-2-21 REPEALED.
§ 23-2-22 CONSUMER’S CONTRACT; RULES, REGULATIONS, AND WATER RATES; AMENDMENTS;
EFFECT.
   The rules, regulations, and water rates set forth in this chapter shall be
considered a part of the contract with every person, persons, company, or
corporation who is supplied with water through the waterworks system of the
city; and every such person, persons, company, or corporation by taking water
shall be considered and held to have consented to be bound thereby. Provided,
the city reserves the right at all times to amend or alter, by ordinance, rules
and regulations pertaining to water and water service, including the rates
established by this article, when deemed advisable by the City Council.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
ARTICLE 3: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
23-3-1   Repealed
   
23-3-2   Public drinking fountains; design
   
23-3-3   Waterworks; injury; interference; prohibited
   
23-3-4   Water supply; contamination; generally
   
23-3-5   Water line; proximity to sanitary sewer line; prohibited
   
23-3-6   Cross-connections; when prohibited
   
23-3-7   Connection to private water supply; prohibited
   
23-3-8   Chapter provisions; effect; scope
   
23-3-9   Fluoridation
§ 23-3-1 REPEALED.
§ 23-3-2 PUBLIC DRINKING FOUNTAINS; DESIGN.
   No public drinking fountain shall have openings by which it can be used as a
source of domestic or other private supply.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-3-3 WATERWORKS; INJURY; INTERFERENCE; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall willfully or carelessly break, injure or deface, interfere
with, or disturb any machinery, apparatus, fixtures, attachment, or
appurtenances of the waterworks system of the city; or any public or private
hydrant, hose or water trough, curb stop, water supply, or service pipe, or any
part thereof. Nor shall any person deposit anything in any curb stop box, or
commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the
above-mentioned properties
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-3-4 WATER SUPPLY; CONTAMINATION; GENERALLY.
   No person shall place in or near or around the waterworks system of the city
any building or structure, or any dirt, filth, or impure substance whatever, or
any substance or fluid by which the water shall be rendered impure,
unpalatable, or dangerous for human or animal consumption.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-3-5 WATER LINE; PROXIMITY TO SANITARY SEWER LINE; PROHIBITED.
   No water main or water service line, whether in a public street or alley, on
privately-owned premises or elsewhere, shall be installed within ten feet
horizontally, or 18 inches vertically of any sanitary sewer main. Provided,
this section shall not apply to the installation of plumbing fixtures.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 23-3-6 CROSS-CONNECTIONS; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No plumbing fixture, device, or connection shall be installed which will
result in a cross-connection between a distribution system of water for
drinking and domestic purposes and a drainage system, soil. or waste pipe so as
to permit or make possible the backflow of sewage or waste into the water
supply system. No installation of potable water supply piping or part thereof
shall be made in such a manner that it will be possible for used, unclean,
polluted. or contaminated water, mixtures, or substances to enter any portion
of such piping from any tank, receptacle, equipment. or plumbing fixture by
reason of back siphonage, by suction or any other cause, either during normal
use and operation thereof or when any such tank, receptacle, equipment. or
plumbing fixture is flooded, or subject to pressure in excess of the operating
pressure in the hot or cold water piping.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-3-7 CONNECTION TO PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY; PROHIBITED.
   A private water supply shall not be connected to the city water system.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-3-8 CHAPTER PROVISIONS; EFFECT; SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to water connections that have
been made prior, as well as those that may be made subsequent, to the effective
date of such provisions. Provided, it shall not be necessary to obtain a permit
for a connection that was made with the consent of the City Council, or other
authorized officer, of the city prior to the adoption of such provisions so
long as the system thus connected is maintained in good repair by the owner or
user, and does not tend to contaminate water in the water system of the city.
Provided, further, such provisions shall not be construed in such manner as to
impair the obligation of valid written contracts entered into prior to the
adoption of such provisions.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970; Ord. 4255, passed 1-
19-2021)
§ 23-3-9 FLUORIDATION.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the city.
(Ord. 4255, passed 1-19-2021)
ARTICLE 4: BACKFLOW PREVENTION
Section
Administration
   
23-4-1   Purpose
   
23-4-2   Definitions
   
23-4-3   Responsibility for implementation
   
23-4-4   Interpretation and appeal; procedure
   
23-4-5   Designation of responsible individual by consumer
   
23-4-6   Surveys and investigations; responsibility of consumer
   
23-4-7   Discontinuation of water service with notice; when allowed
   
23-4-8   Immediate discontinuation of water service; when allowed
   
23-4-9   Restoration of water service; defects to be corrected; reconnection
fee
   
23-4-10   Liability; city to hold City Manager and city employees harmless
Backflow Prevention
   
23-4-11   Cross-connections; forbidden
   
23-4-12   Hose bib vacuum breakers; where required
   
23-4-13   Backflow prevention devices; installed at consumer’s expense
   
23-4-14   Backflow prevention device; conditions where required
   
23-4-15   Same; facilities where required
   
23-4-16   Same; other circumstances where required
   
23-4-17   Backflow prevention; type of protection required
   
23-4-18   Same; anti-siphon vacuum breaker; where permissible
   
23-4-19   Same; existing backflow prevention devices
   
23-4-20   Strainers; when required
   
23-4-21   Booster pumps; low pressure cut-off; required
   
23-4-22   Yard hydrants; to be equipped with anti-siphon vacuum breaker
   
23-4-23   Underground lawn and garden sprinklers; backflow prevention device
required
   
23-4-24   Fire suppression systems; review by City Manager
   
23-4-25   Same; pharmaceutical grade anti-freeze; required
   
23-4-26   Same; double check valve; required
   
23-4-27   Same; existing systems; requirements
ADMINISTRATION
§ 23-4-1 PURPOSE.
   This article is intended to protect the public water supply system of the
city from the possibility of contamination by isolating real or potential
sources of contamination or pollution which may backflow into the public water
supply system.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in this article, the following terms shall have the meaning
given to them in this section.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening of any pipe or faucet supplying water to
a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle. An approved air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the
supply pipe, measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the receptacle
and, in no case less than one inch.
   ANTI-SIPHON VACUUM BREAKER. A device which restricts the backflow of water
into a potable water system by a simple check valve. The vacuum is broken by
allowing air to enter upstream of the check valve.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A backflow prevention device that has
been manufactured in full conformance with the most current edition of
standards established by the American Water Works Association and tested by the
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles, California.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water supply system available to the premises
other than the public water supply system and includes the water supplied by
such system. An AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM may include water from another
consumer’s public water supply system, polluted or contaminated water, process
fluids, used water, or other sources of water which the consumer of the public
water supply system does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the water distribution system from any other source than the intended source of
the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Scottsbluff, Nebraska and any
person or persons designated by the City Manager to carry out the provisions of
this article.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water supply system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Any water supply system located on the
consumer’s premises, supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water
supply system. The team shall include a household plumbing system and a fire
suppression system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water to a degree
which creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any arrangement whereby contamination of the public water
supply system due to backflow or back-siphonage can occur.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. A term derived from an evaluation of the potential risk to
health and the adverse effects upon the potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting, check valves including 100% closing shut-off ball valves
or resilient seat gate valves located at each end of the assembly and suitable
connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates, a real or potential danger to the health and well-being
of the consumer.
   LICENSED PLUMBER. A person who has obtained a master plumber’s license from
the city.
   PERSON. The state, any political subdivision, public or private corporation,
individual, partnership, or other legal entity. The singular includes the
plural, and the male pronoun includes the female.
   PLUMBING HAZARD. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by air gap separation or
backflow prevention devices.
   POLLUTION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water to a degree
which does not necessarily cause an actual hazard to the public health but
which does adversely and unreasonably affect such waters for any desired use.
   POLLUTION HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable
or degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or the consumer’s water supply system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary, and
domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the Nebraska Department of
Health.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A water supply system designed and intended to
provide potable water to designated consumers. The water supply shall include
the water supply source and distribution piping network. The water supply
source is defined as any artificial or natural accumulation of water used to
supply the potable water system. The distribution piping network includes all
piping, plumbing, and treatment devices used to convey an adequate quality and
quantity of potable water to the consumer.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting internally loaded check valves together
with an automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located
between two check valves, “four properly located test cocks and two isolation
valves”. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure
between these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of
leakage of either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to
the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves
at less than the supply pressure. The unit must include 100% closing shut-off
ball valves or resilient seat gate valves located at each end of the device,
and each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the service
connection means the downstream end of the meter.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual or potential threat of damage to
the physical properties of the public or the consumer’s water supply system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by the public water supply system to a
consumer’s water supply system after it has passed through the service
connection and is no longer under the sanitary control of the city.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-3 RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be responsible for the implementation of this
article. If the City Manager determines that an approved backflow prevention
device is required for the safety of the public water supply system, then the
City Manager shall give notice in writing to the consumer to install said
device at each designated location. The City Manager shall inspect and approve
all installations of the required backflow prevention devices. The costs of
purchasing, installing, testing, and maintaining a backflow prevention device
shall be the responsibility and sole expense of the consumer. The installation
of backflow prevention devices, except for outlet fixture vacuum breakers,
shall be by a licensed plumber. A certified backflow tester approved by the
state and city shall test double-check valves and reduced pressure zone devices
annually, and shall test pressure vacuum breakers once, upon installation. If
the City Manager determines that maintenance or repairs are necessary, the
consumer shall be contacted and issued an order to make all necessary repairs
or maintenance. The consumer shall complete all installation, maintenance, or
repairs within 30 days after being ordered to do so. Anyone who fails to comply
with such an order shall be considered in violation of this article and shall
be subject to disconnection of service as provided in this article.
   (B)   The City Manager shall keep a current list of all suppliers of
approved backflow prevention devices and an appropriate list of makes and
models of backflow prevention devices which meet the requirements of this
article.
(Ord. 4300, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 23-4-4 INTERPRETATION AND APPEAL; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, whenever the City Manager is to make
a decision or interpretation, or whenever reference is made to the fact that
the City Manager is to exercise judgment, such decision, interpretation, or
judgment shall be in accordance with the provisions of this article, and any
other applicable provisions of this code, and state and federal law.
   (B)   Any consumer aggrieved by any decision or action of the City Manager
may request a hearing before the Plumbers Examining Board. Such request must be
in writing and shall be delivered to the City Clerk no more than ten days after
the decision or action in question. A request for a hearing shall stay all
orders and actions until the conclusion of the hearing, except a
discontinuation of water service under this article. At such hearing, the
action or order of the City Manager shall be presumed to be correct, and the
consumer shall have the burden of establishing the contrary. After such
hearing, the Plumbers Examining Board may modify or affirm the decision of the
City Manager. Any appeal from the decision of the Plumbers Examining Board
following such hearing shall be by appropriate proceedings in the District
Court. The pendency of such an action in the District Court shall not delay the
effective date of the City Manager’s decision or action unless the District
Court shall so order.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-5 DESIGNATION OF RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUAL BY CONSUMER.
   If requested by the City Manager, the consumer shall designate an individual
or individuals who shall be responsible for contact and communications with the
City Manager in matters relating to the system alteration and construction
monitoring and sampling, maintenance, operation, record keeping, and reporting,
as required by law and this article. Any change in assigned responsibilities or
designated individuals shall be promptly reported to the City Manager.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-6 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS; RESPONSIBILITY OF CONSUMER.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to conduct or cause to
be conducted, periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises,
as necessary to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections in the consumer’s water supply system. The City Manager shall have
the authority to conduct or cause to be conducted periodic surveys and
investigations, of a frequency as determined by the City Manager, of water use
practices within a consumer’s premises to determine whether there are actual or
potential cross-connections to the consumer’s water supply system through which
contaminants or pollutants could backflow into the public water supply system.
The City Manager may conduct these surveys to provide information in
determining what level of protection will be necessary to protect the public
health and safety.
   (B)   On request by the City Manager, the consumer shall furnish the City
Manager information on water use practices within the consumer’s premises. If
the consumer within a reasonable time refuses to submit the proper information
or to cooperate in obtaining the proper information, the City Manager shall
treat the premises as if no appropriate cross-connection survey has been
completed. In such event, the consumer shall be required to install an approved
backflow prevention device within the time stipulated by the City Manager.
   (C)   The City Manager shall have the right to enter a premises served by
the public water supply system, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of
making surveys and investigations of water use practices within the premises.
In order to inspect such premises, the City Manager shall give notice setting
forth a proposed date and time to the consumer at least ten days in advance. If
the consumer cannot make the premises available for inspection at the proposed
date and time, the consumer shall contact the City Manager and arrange for
another date and time for the inspection. If the City Manager and the consumer
cannot agree on a date and time, then the City Manager shall treat the premises
as if no appropriate cross-connection survey has been completed. In such event,
the consumer shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention
device as required in this article or water service shall be discontinued by
the City Manager.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-7 DISCONTINUATION OF WATER SERVICE WITH NOTICE; WHEN ALLOWED.
   The City Manager shall discontinue, seven days after mailing, written notice
to the consumer thereof, the water service to any premises where:
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by this article is not
installed or maintained in a manner which complies with the terms of this
article;
   (B)   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
by-passed;
   (C)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises;
   (D)   A low pressure cut-off required by the City Manager is not installed
and maintained in working order; or
   (E)   The City Manager is denied entry to determine compliance with this
article.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-8 IMMEDIATE DISCONTINUATION OF WATER SERVICE; WHEN ALLOWED.
   The City Manager shall immediately discontinue, without notice to the
consumer thereof, the water service to any premises where a cross-connection
exists which constitutes an immediate threat to the safety of the public water
system. Within 24 hours after such discontinuation, the City Manager shall send
to the consumer by certified mail notice of the discontinuation.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-9 RESTORATION OF WATER SERVICE; DEFECTS TO BE CORRECTED: RECONNECTION
FEE.
   Where water service has been discontinued as provided in this article, it
shall not be restored until the consumer has corrected or eliminated such
conditions or defects in conformance with this article to the satisfaction of
the City Manager. Water service shall not be restored until the reconnection
fee described in Article 2 of this title, has been paid.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-10 LIABILITY; CITY TO HOLD CITY MANAGER AND CITY EMPLOYEES HARMLESS.
   The City Manager and all city employees shall be relieved from personal
liability for acts taken under this article. The city shall hold harmless the
City Manager and all city employees when acting in good faith and without
malice, from all personal liability for any damage that may occur to any person
or property as a result of any act required or authorized by this article, or
by reason of any act or omission of the City Manager in the discharge of his or
her duties hereunder.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 23-4-11 CROSS-CONNECTIONS; FORBIDDEN.
   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection containing
cross-connections to a public water supply system or a consumers’ potable water
supply system unless such cross-connections are abated or controlled in
accordance with this article, and as required by the laws and the state and the
regulations of the Nebraska Department of Health.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-12 HOSE BIB VACUUM BREAKERS; WHERE REQUIRED.
   All premises served by the public water supply shall have installed approved
hose bib (connection) vacuum breakers on all fixtures that are threaded to
accept standard garden hose fittings. These include all outside sill cocks,
water heater drains, utility sink faucets, and fixtures that are determined to
be a potential hazard by the City Manager.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-13 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES; INSTALLED AT CONSUMER’S EXPENSE.
   Any approved backflow prevention device required by the City Manager shall
be installed at a location and in a manner approved by the City Manager. The
consumer, at his or her sole expense, shall obtain and install said approved
backflow prevention device(s) within 30 days of notice and as directed by the
City Manager.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-14 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE; CONDITIONS WHERE REQUIRED.
   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed when the following
conditions are found by the City Manager to exist:
   (A)   Where a substance is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual
or potential hazard to a public water supply system. This shall include
premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from a public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the city;
   (B)   Where internal cross-connections are not correctable in the judgment
of the City Manager, or there exists intricate plumbing arrangements which make
it impracticable to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
   (C)   Where, because of security requirements or other prohibitions or
restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a complete cross-
connection survey;
   (D)   Where cross-connections have been established or re-established within
the preceding three years; or
   (E)   Where there is more than one customer service connection which could
constitute a potential cross-connection.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-15 SAME; FACILITIES WHERE REQUIRED.
   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service
line to a customer’s water supply system serving the following types of
facilities, unless the City Manager determines that no health, pollution, or
system hazard to the public water supply system exists:
   (A)   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent homes,
and medical buildings;
   (B)   Testing laboratories, film laboratories, and film development
facilities;
   (C)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or storm water
pumping stations;
   (D)   Food or beverage processing plants;
   (E)   Chemical plants;
   (F)   Metal degreasing, plating industries, machine tool plants, and dye and
metal processing or productions;
   (G)   Chemical and petroleum processing or storage plants;
   (H)   Car washes and automobile servicing facilities;
   (I)   Lawn irrigation systems and swimming pools;
   (J)   Laundries and dry cleaners;
   (K)   Packing houses;
   (L)   Power plants;
   (M)   Premises having radioactive materials, such as laboratories,
industries, and hospitals;
   (N)   Rendering plants;
   (O)   Premises having water recirculating systems as used for boilers or
cooling systems and water softeners; softeners may be isolated with a double
check valve assembly, or factory manufactured internal backflow protection,
approved by the City Manager;
   (P)   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feed yards, stables, rodeo
grounds, stockyards, and pet grooming salons;
   (Q)   Beauty salons, barber shops, massage parlors, and health clubs;
   (R)   Fire suppression systems;
   (S)   Multi-storied buildings greater than three stories in height;
   (T)   Schools, universities, and colleges; or
   (U)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connections.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-16 SAME; OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE REQUIRED.
   In all situations for which no special provision has been made in this
article, an approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s water
supply system, when in the judgment of the City Manager, a health, plumbing,
pollution, or system hazard exists.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-17 BACKFLOW PREVENTION; TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required under this article shall depend on the
degree of hazard that exists as follows:
   (A)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where a public water
supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could cause a system
hazard or health hazard;
   (B)   An approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where a
public water supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could
cause a pollution hazard;
   (C)   An approved reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device
shall be installed at the service connection where there exists a plumbing
hazard; or
   (D)   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements or
other prohibitions, it is impossible or impractical to make a complete cross-
connection survey of the consumer’s potable water system, a reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed at the service
connection.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-18 SAME; ANTI-SIPHON VACUUM BREAKER; WHERE PERMISSIBLE.
   An approved anti-siphon vacuum breaker may be used as a backflow prevention
device where it is not subjected to back pressures. This device shall not be
used for applications where water flow is expected to be continuous for 12 or
more hours. The device shall be installed ahead of the potential source of
contamination on the discharge side of the last control valve. It shall be
placed at least six inches above the highest point reached by any water passing
through the potential source of contamination.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-19 SAME; EXISTING BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the City Manager prior to
the effective date of this rule and which are properly installed and maintained
shall, except for inspection, testing, and maintenance requirements, be
excluded from the requirements of this article but only if the City Manager
determines that the devices will satisfactorily protect the public water supply
system. One hundred percent closing shutoff ball valves or resilient seat gate
valves for testing shall be provided on existing backflow prevention devices,
if deemed necessary for proper testing by the City Manager. If the City Manager
determines that an existing backflow prevention device requires replacement, it
shall be replaced with an approved backflow prevention device.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-20 STRAINERS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   The City Manager may require a strainer of approved type and size to be
installed in conjunction with required backflow prevention devices. The
strainers shall be installed in such a manner as to preclude the following of
the backflow prevention device(s) due to such circumstances as water main
repairs, water main breaks, fires, and periodic cleaning and flushing of mains.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-21 BOOSTER PUMPS; LOW PRESSURE CUTOFF; REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any
premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within such premises, unless such booster pump is equipped with a low pressure
cut-off designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 pounds per square inch gauge
or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water customer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-22 YARD HYDRANTS; TO BE EQUIPPED WITH ANTI-SIPHON VACUUM BREAKER.
   Yard hydrants or hose bibs which could be used by the consumer to provide
water to mix pesticides, fertilizer, or other chemicals, for direct use or
aerial application to surface areas, shall be equipped with an anti-siphon
vacuum breaker.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-23 UNDERGROUND LAWN AND GARDEN SPRINKLERS; BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE
REQUIRED.
   All underground lawn and garden sprinklers shall be equipped with an
approved backflow prevention device.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-24 FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS; REVIEW BY CITY MANAGER.
   All proposed installations of fire suppression systems shall be reviewed by
the City Manager to determine the appropriate type of backflow prevention
device(s) required.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-25 SAME; PHARMACEUTICAL GRADE ANTI-FREEZE; REQUIRED.
   All proposed fire suppression systems requiring an anti-freeze solution
shall use a pharmaceutical grade anti-freeze. The consumer shall provide to the
City Manager a certification identifying the type of pharmaceutical grade anti-
freeze which shall be used. Any reduced pressure vacuum breaker backflow
prevention device shall be installed in an approved manner.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-26 SAME; DOUBLE CHECK VALVE; REQUIRED.
   A double check valve assembly of an approved type shall be installed on all
proposed fire suppression systems not utilizing anti-freeze, but this may be
done only when there are no other cross-connections. An inspection by a
certified fire suppression specialist shall be done prior to installation.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
§ 23-4-27 SAME; EXISTING SYSTEMS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All existing fire suppression systems shall meet the requirements of
this article.
   (B)   In the event of cross-connections, such as those found in using
auxiliary water supply systems or in providing other water additives, such as
foaming agents, are necessary for the proper operation of the fire suppression
system, then a reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device shall be
installed in an approved manner.
(Ord. 3261, passed - -1992)
ARTICLE 5: ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
Section
   
23-5-1   Violations; discontinuance of service: forfeiture of payments
    
23-5-2   Police Department; reports; City Manager; enforcement
   
23-5-3   Violations; penalty
§ 23-5-1 VIOLATIONS; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; FORFEITURE OF PAYMENTS.
   Whenever the owner or occupant of premises to which water service of the
city is supplied shall violate any provision of this chapter, or of any other
ordinance relating to the waterworks of the city, or additional regulation that
may be adopted, the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, may
order the water supply turned off or disconnected, in which event the supply
shall not again be turned on or reconnected except by order of the City
Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, and on payment of the expense of
shutting it off and turning it on, and upon such other reasonable terms as the
City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, shall determine, and after
satisfactory assurances that no further violations will occur. In such case,
the City Manager, or the designee of the City Manager, also shall have the
power to declare any payment made for the water by the person or persons
committing such violation to be forfeited, and the same thereupon shall be
forfeited.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-5-2 POLICE DEPARTMENT; REPORTS; CITY MANAGER; ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the police of the city to report to the City Manager
all cases of leakage and of violations of this chapter, and of any other
ordinance relating to the waterworks of the city, that may be brought to their
notice, and they shall enforce the observance of such ordinances insofar as
they have the authority to do so.
(Ord. 1116, passed 2-25-1957; Ord. 1873, passed - -1970)
§ 23-5-3 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter is a Class II violation.
ARTICLE 6: RESTRICTIONS; CIRCUMSTANCES; PENALTIES
Section
   
23-6-1   Statement of purpose; City Council may act by resolution
   
23-6-2   Definitions
   
23-6-3   Water warning; conditions for declaration; restrictions on use of
water
   
23-6-4   Same; exemptions
   
23-6-5   Water emergency; conditions for declaration; restrictions on the use
of water
   
23-6-6   Termination of water warning or water emergency
   
23-6-7   Violations
   
23-6-8   Multiple convictions; consequences
§ 23-6-1 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE; CITY COUNCIL MAY ACT BY RESOLUTION.
   The Mayor and the City Council find that the water supply of the city may be
impacted by drought conditions which, if sufficiently severe, may require
mandatory conservation measures to preserve the integrity of the city’s water
supply. The City Council may, by resolution, put into effect the mandatory
water use restrictions described in this article if City Council finds the
existence of any of the conditions described in this article.
§ 23-6-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Where used in this article, the following terms shall have the meaning set
forth unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   DAILY CONSUMPTION. The amount of water consumed in the city in a 24-hour
day. DAILY CONSUMPTION is calculated by subtracting the readings on the meters
on the city’s wells from the readings the previous day, and then by adding the
difference for each well.
   PRIVATE WELL OWNER. A citizen who owns a private well in the city that is
not connected to the distribution system.
   RESTRICTED WATER USE.
      (1)   Public or private use of water outdoors, including but is not
limited to lawns, gardens, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing
fields, swimming pools, or the washing of vehicles, boats, trailers, sidewalks,
driveways, and exterior of buildings;
      (2)   The use of water for industrial, commercial, or agricultural
purposes; or
      (3)   The reasonably necessary use of water for the health and hygiene of
employees, while they are engaged in the performance of their duties at their
place of employment shall not be considered a restricted water use.
   UTILITY CUSTOMER. The customer on record who pays fees for the use of water
for any purpose from the city distribution system.
   WATER. All water available to the city introduced by the water distribution
system.
   WATER STORAGE. The amount of water held in the city’s water towers.
   WATER SYSTEM CAPACITY. The total production from all the city’s operable
wells at maximum production for a 24-hour period.
§ 23-6-3 WATER WARNING; CONDITIONS FOR DECLARATION; RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF
WATER.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, declare a water warning when one
of the following conditions is met when:
      (1)   After normal pumping, water storage does not regain 90% of the
water system capacity by 5:00 a.m. each morning;
      (2)   Groundwater levels have fallen below normal seasonal levels; or
      (3)   Daily consumption exceeds 70% of the water system capacity.
   (B)   Upon promulgation of an appropriate resolution by the City Council
declaring a water warning, lawns and other landscape plants may be watered only
on even numbered days if such are located at an even numbered address, and odd
numbered days if located at an odd numbered address. Watering of lawns may take
place only between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m.; these restrictions
shall apply to both utility customers and private well owners.
§ 23-6-4 SAME; EXEMPTIONS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee may, in his or her discretion, grant
an exemption from the provisions of the immediately preceding section, if in
his or her judgment, the granting of an exemption will not adversely impact the
integrity of the city’s water supply and one of the following conditions is
met:
   (A)   The applicant for the exemption is in the process of establishing a
new lawn by use of sod or seed application. The exemption may not last more
than three weeks; and
   (B)   The applicant for the exemption is the operator of a large common or
public area that, because of irrigation system limitations, cannot be sustained
while following the mandatory drought restrictions described in this article.
§ 23-6-5 WATER EMERGENCY; CONDITIONS FOR DECLARATION; RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE
OF WATER.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, declare a water emergency when
one of the following conditions is met when:
      (1)   After normal pumping, water storage does not regain 80% of capacity
by 5:00 a.m. each morning;
      (2)   Groundwater levels have fallen significantly below the water
warning levels; or
      (3)   When daily consumption exceeds 80% of the water system capacity.
   (B)   Upon promulgation of an appropriate resolution by the City Council
declaring a water emergency, restricted water use is not allowed. This
restriction shall apply to both utility customers and private well owners.
§ 23-6-6 TERMINATION OF WATER WARNING OR WATER EMERGENCY.
   When the City Council determines that the conditions making appropriate the
declaration of a water warning or a water emergency no longer exist, the City
Council may, by appropriate resolution, so declare, and the restrictions
imposed by this article shall cease to be in effect.
§ 23-6-7 VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of any provision of this article shall be a Class II violation.
§ 23-6-8 MULTIPLE CONVICTIONS; CONSEQUENCES.
   In addition to the penalties elsewhere prescribed in this article.
   (A)   Any utility customer previously convicted of violating any provision
of this article who should be convicted of violating any provision of this
article during the same water warning or water emergency as the first
conviction shall have his or her water bill doubled for a period of six months
beginning with the first billing cycle after the second conviction.
   (B)   Any utility customer previously twice convicted of any provision of
this article who should be convicted of a third violation of any provision of
this article during the same water warning or water emergency as the first two
conviction shall have his or her water service terminated. The termination can
be appealed within a ten-day period to the City Manager. Service terminated
under such circumstances may be reconnected only upon payment of a $30
reconnect fee and upon giving satisfactory assurances to the City Manager that
the violation will not be repeated.
(Ord. 3754, passed - -2003)
CHAPTER 24: STORMWATER
   Article
      
1.   DEFINITIONS
      
2.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
3.   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN
      
4.   POST-CONSTRUCTION DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES
ARTICLE 1: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
24-1-1   Definitions
§ 24-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   Wherever used in this chapter, the following terms shall bear the meanings
herein.
   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. A discharge prohibited by this chapter which occurs by
chance and without planning or thought prior to occurrence.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving water, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to the NPDES construction permits.
Currently, these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavation, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
24-2-7 of this chapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system,
including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater
discharge, including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the
storm drain system and connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains
and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency or, any
drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the
storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent
records, and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(B)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
water of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so the same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind. POLLUTANTS lead to the human-made or human-induced alteration of the
chemical, physical, biological, or radiological integrity of an aquatic
ecosystem.
ARTICLE 2: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
24-2-1   Purpose and intent
   
24-2-2   Applicability
   
24-2-3   Compatibility with other regulations
   
24-2-4   Responsibility for administration
   
24-2-5   Severability
   
24-2-6   Ultimate responsibility
   
24-2-7   Prohibition of illegal discharges
   
24-2-8   Prohibition of illicit connections
   
24-2-9   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
24-2-10   Requirements to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of Best Management Practices
   
24-2-11   Watercourse protection
   
24-2-12   Suspension of MS4 access
   
24-2-13   Access and inspection of properties and facilities
   
24-2-14   Notification of accidental discharges and spills
   
24-2-15   Notice of violation
   
24-2-16   Appeal of notice of violation
   
24-2-17   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
24-2-18   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
24-2-19   Injunctive relief
   
24-2-20   Alternative actions upon violation
   
24-2-21   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
24-2-22   Criminal prosecution
   
24-2-23   Remedies not exclusive
§ 24-2-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety,
environment, and general welfare through the regulation of non-stormwater
discharges to the city separate storm sewer system to the maximum extent
practicable required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes methods
for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements on the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
      (2)   Prohibit illicit connection and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system;
      (3)   Prevent non-stormwater discharges, generated as a result of spills,
inappropriate dumping or disposal, to the city’s separate storm sewer system;
or
      (4)   Establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, monitoring, and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
§ 24-2-2 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water generated on any developed and
undeveloped lands entering the storm drain system unless explicitly exempted by
this municipal code or otherwise by the city.
§ 24-2-3 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law. Where this chapter is in conflict with any other provision of
law, the provision which is more restrictive or imposes higher protective
standards for human health or the environment shall control.
§ 24-2-4 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Manager shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The City Manager may delegate enforcement powers to any employee
of the city.
§ 24-2-5 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter.
§ 24-2-6 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter is not to be interpreted as meaning
that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
§ 24-2-7 PROHIBITION OF ILLEGAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses, any materials other than stormwater,
including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants
that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standard.
   (B)   The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any illegal discharge to
the storm drain system is prohibited, except as follows:
      (1)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted streamflows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated -typically less than one part per million of
chlorine), firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing
pollutants;
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the City Manager as being
necessary to protect public health and safety;
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the City Manager prior to the time of test; or
      (4)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
§ 24-2-8 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   The construction, connection, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
any illegal connection to the city’s separate storm sewer system is prohibited.
   (A)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   (B)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
§ 24-2-9 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the city prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
§ 24-2-10 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The city will adopt requirements identifying Best Management Practices for
any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution
or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the state
or the United States of America. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at the expense of the owner or
operator, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system or water
courses through the use of these structural and non-structural Best Management
Practices to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a
valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with the
industrial provisions of this section. These Best Management Practices shall be
part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for
compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
§ 24-2-11 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
§ 24-2-12 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The city
may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United
States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an
emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the state or
the United States of America or to minimize danger to persons or property.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have his or her MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge. The city will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the City Manager for a
reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if that person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
City Manager.
§ 24-2-13 ACCESS AND INSPECTION OF PROPERTIES AND FACILITIES.
   The City Manager or designee may enter and inspect properties and facilities
at reasonable times as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with
this chapter.
   (A)   Employees of the city may enter and inspect facilities subject to
regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Facility operators shall allow authorized employees of the city ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling
examination, and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of
an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and performance of any additional
duties as defined by state and federal law.
   (C)   The city may set up on any permitted facility such devices as are
necessary in the opinion of the City Manager to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility’s stormwater discharge.
   (D)   The city may require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as
necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its
own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   The temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A
person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person
denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by
this chapter.
   (G)   If the representatives of the city have been refused access to any
part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, the city may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 24-2-14 NOTIFICATION OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES AND SPILLS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of the law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility, activity, or operation, or responsible for
emergency response for a facility, activity, or operation has information of
any known or suspected release of pollutants or non-stormwater discharges from
that facility or operation which are resulting or may result in illicit
discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the city (MS4) separate
storm sewer system, waters of the state, or the waters of the United States of
America, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and clean-up of such release so as to minimize the effects of the
discharge.
   (B)   Said person shall notify the City Manager, or designee of the City
Manager, of the nature, quantity, and time of occurrence of the discharge
within 24 hours. Notifications which are not in writing shall be confirmed by
written notice addressed and mailed to the City Manager, or designee, within
three business days of the phone call or by personal notification. If the
discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the action taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three years. Said
person shall also take immediate steps to ensure no recurrence of the discharge
or spill.
   (C)   In the event of such a release of hazardous materials, emergency
response agencies, and/or other appropriate agencies shall be immediately
notified.
   (D)   Failure to provide notification of a release as provided above is a
violation of this chapter.
§ 24-2-15 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the City Manager may order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice shall be sent via regular U.S. mail or via hand delivery to the owner of
the property and to any licensee listed under a city business license for the
property. The notice shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the parties listed above;
      (2)   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure, or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
      (3)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
      (4)   A description of the remedial action:
      (5)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person or persons to whom the notice of violation is
directed; and
      (6)   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to
the City Manager by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days of service
of notice of violation.
   (B)   In the event of a violation, the city may require:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting:
      (2)   The elimination of illicit discharges and illegal connections;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist:
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of costs to cover administrative and abatement costs;
      (6)   The implementation of pollution prevention practices; and
      (7)   Such other action as may be reasonably necessary to accomplish the
purposes of this chapter.
§ 24-2-16 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the city. The notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall be delivered to
the City Clerk within 30 days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing
on the appeal before the City Manager shall take place within 15 days from the
date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The pendency of an appeal shall not
relieve the responsible person from complying with the requirements of the
notice of violation, unless the City Manager otherwise consents in writing.
§ 24-2-17 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 15 days
of the decision of the City Manager or designee, then representatives of the
city may enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any
measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall
be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or person in possession of any
premises to refuse to allow the city or designated city contractor to enter
upon the premised for the purposes set forth above.
§ 24-2-18 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the
assessment or to the amount of the assessment within 30 days of such notice. If
the amount due is not paid within 30 days after receipt of the notice, or if an
appeal is taken, within 30 days after a decision on said appeal, the charges
shall become a special assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions
of this article shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation.
   (B)   The city may recover all attorney’s fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
§ 24-2-19 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of the chapter, the city may petition
for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create further violations, or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
§ 24-2-20 ALTERNATIVE ACTIONS UPON VIOLATION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the city may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
action, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance of compliance workshops,
waterway clean-up, or other community service work.
§ 24-2-21 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
the chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
§ 24-2-22 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be
subject to a criminal penalty of $100 per violation per day.
§ 24-2-23 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law, and it is within
the discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies.
ARTICLE 3: STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN
Section
   
24-3-1   Purpose; scope
   
24-3-2   Definitions
   
24-3-3   Relation to other laws
   
24-3-4   Exemptions
   
24-3-5   Manner of work
   
24-3-6   SWPPP performance standards
   
24-3-7   Application; fees
   
24-3-8   Permit application form
   
24-3-9   Stormwater pollution prevention plan
   
24-3-10   Permit required
   
24-3-11   Permit duration
   
24-3-12   Permit renewals/extension
   
24-3-13   Permit denial
   
24-3-14   Conditions of approval
   
24-3-15   Requirements for utility construction
   
24-3-16   Liability
   
24-3-17   Responsibility of permittee
   
24-3-18   Permit authorization
   
24-3-19   Compliance
   
24-3-20   Action upon noncompliance
   
24-3-21   Changes to plans
   
24-3-22   Inspection and supervision
   
24-3-23   Changes during construction reports
   
24-3-24   Maintenance during and after construction
   
24-3-25   Security
   
24-3-26   Enforcement
   
24-3-27   Penalties
   
24-3-28   Certificate of completion
   
24-3-29   Notice of termination
§ 24-3-1 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   The purpose and scope of this article is to control land disturbances, or
eliminate soil erosion and sedimentation within the corporate limits of the
city. It establishes standards and specifications for conversion practices and
planing activities that minimize soil erosion and sedimentation. It further
provides the city with procedures for issuance, approval, admission, and
enforcement of a permit.
§ 24-3-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in this article, the following terms shall have the meaning
given to them in this section.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application to the city for a permit
pursuant to this article.
   ARCHITECT. A person duly registered or authorized to practice architecture
in the state.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing Materials.
   BEDROCK. In place solid rock.
   BENCH. A relatively level step excavated into earth material on which fill
is to be placed.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Erosion and sediment control and water
quality management practices that are the most effective and practicable means
of controlling, preventing, and minimizing degradation of surface water,
including avoidance of impacts, construction-phasing, minimizing the length of
time soil areas are exposed, prohibitions, and other management practices
published by state or designated area-wide planning agencies.
   BORROW. Earth material acquired from an off-site location for use in grading
on a site.
   CITY. The City of Scottsbluff and only includes areas within its corporate
limits.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer/Director of Public Works of the city and
his or her duly authorized designees.
   CIVIL ENGINEER. A professional engineer registered in the state to practice
in the field of civil works.
   CIVIL ENGINEERING. The application of the knowledge of the forces of nature,
principles of mechanics, and the properties of materials to the evaluation,
design, and construction of civil works for the beneficial uses of mankind.
   CLEARING and GRUBBING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface
cover, including the cutting and removal of trees, shrubs, bushes, and other
vegetation, including removal of tree stumps, roots, and other remains in the
designated areas.
   CSW. The construction site to waters permit of the state.
   DEMOLITION. Any act or process of wrecking or destroying a building or
structure as defined in the Building Code.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A temporary or permanent natural or human made structure
that provides for the temporary storage of stormwater runoff.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership,
state agency, or political subdivision thereof engaged in a land disturbance
activity.
   DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT. The department in the city that is
responsible for building inspections, code enforcement, community development,
current and long range planning, zoning, and permit coordination.
   DIRECTOR OF STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN INSPECTION. The stormwater
program specialist of the city and his or her duly authorized designees.
   EROSION. The wearing away of earth material as a result of the movement of
wind, water, ice, and/or land disturbance activities.
   EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earth material.
   FILL. A deposit of soil or other earth materials placed by artificial means.
   FINAL SWPPP (FINAL PLAN). Plan which includes permanent measures and Best
Management Practices to control surface runoff and control sediment, if not
included in the SWPPP (Plan).
   FLOODPLAIN. The 100-year floodplain which is that area adjoining a
watercourse which could be inundated by a flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year, and is delineated on the Federal
Emergency Management Agency Floodway Maps for the city.
   GENERAL STORMWATER PERMIT. The Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality
(NDEQ) general National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
construction stormwater permit covering anyone conducting a land disturbing
activity which disturbs one or more acres of total
land area.
   GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface.
      (1)   Existing grade is the grade prior to grading;
      (2)   Rough grade is the stage at which the grade approximately conforms
to the approved plan; and
      (3)   Finish grade is the final grade of the site which conforms to the
approved plan.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. The stormwater program specialist of the city and their
duly authorized designees.
   LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Any land change that may result in soil erosion
from wind, water, and/or ice, and the movement of sediments into or upon
waters, lands, or rights-of-way within the corporate limits of the city,
including but not limited to building demolition, clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land. LAND DISTURBANCE
ACTIVITY does not include the following:
      (1)   Minor land disturbance activities including, but not limited to,
underground utility repairs, home gardens, minor repairs, and maintenance work
which do not disturb more than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development;
      (2)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone, and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles;
      (3)   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property and emergency
repairs. If the land disturbing activity would have required an approved SWPPP
except for the emergency, then the land area disturbed shall be shaped and
stabilized in accordance with the requirements of this article; and
      (4)   Agricultural and other activity related to the production and
management of crops for economic benefit.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A person duly registered or authorized to practice
landscape architecture in the state.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT. Part of a large set of plans if the
ultimate plan is larger than one acre then it is part of a larger common plan.
   MAINTENANCE PROJECT. A non-construction related activity.
   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. Any precipitation measuring one-half inches or
greater.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(B) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
water of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group, or general area-wide basis).
   NOAA. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   NDEQ. The Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality.
   NDOR. The Nebraska Department of Roads.
   N.O.I. The document of notice of intent
   N.O.T. The document of notice of termination.
   OUTFALL. The point of discharge to any watercourse from a public or private
stormwater drainage  system.
   OWNER. Any person with a legal or equitable interest in the land for which
an erosion control permit has been issued.
   PERMITTEE. The applicant in whose name a valid permit is duly issued
pursuant to this article and his or her agents, employees, and others acting
under his or her other direction.
   RETENTION FACILITY. A temporary or permanent natural or human-made structure
that provides for the storage of stormwater runoff by means of a permanent pool
of water.
   RUNOFF. Rainfall, snowmelt, or irrigation water flowing over the ground
surface.
   SEDIMENT. Soils or other surficial materials transported by surface water as
a product of erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process or action of deposition sediment that is
determined to have been caused by erosion.
   SITE. The entire area of land on which the land disturbance activity is
proposed in the permit application.
   SITE PLAN. A plan or set of plans showing the details of any land
disturbance activity of a site, including but not limited to the construction
of structures, open and enclosed drainage facilities, stormwater management
facilities, parking lots, driveways, curbs, pavements, sidewalks, bike paths,
recreational facilities, ground covers, plantings, and landscaping.
   SLOPE. The incline of a ground surface expressed as a ratio of horizontal
distance to vertical distance.
   SOIL. Naturally occurring surficial deposits overlying bedrock.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). Plan which includes a set of
Best Management Practices or equivalent measure designed to control surface
runoff and erosion and to retain sediment on a particular site during the
period in which pre-construction and construction related land disturbances,
fills, and soil storage occur, and before final improvements are completed, all
in accordance with the specific requirements set forth in § 24-3-9 of this
article.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN INSPECTOR. Employee of the city that
has in his or her possession either of the following:
      (1)   Certification for erosion and sediment control for inspectors
sponsored or endorsed by the Nebraska Local Technical Assistance Program; or
      (2)   Certification of preparer of stormwater pollution prevention plan
and certified compliance inspector of stormwater sponsored or endorsed by
Stormwater USA.
   STRIPPING. Any activity which removes or significantly disturbs the
vegetative surface cover including clearing, grubbing of stumps and root mat,
and topsoil removal.
   STRUCTURE. Anything manufactured, constructed, or erected which is normally
attached to or positioned on land, including buildings, portable structures,
earthen structures, roads, parking lots, and paved storage areas.
   SURVEYOR. A person duly registered or authorized to practice land surveying
in the state.
   SWPPP. The stormwater pollution prevention plan which details sediment
erosion and control.
   TOPSOIL. The upper layer of soil.
   UTILITY. The owner/operator of any underground facility, including an
underground line, facility, system, and its appurtenances used to produce,
store, convey, transmit, or distribute communications, data, electricity,
power, heat, gas, oil, petroleum products, water (including stormwater), steam,
sewage, and other similar substances.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or improved stream, river, creek, ditch, channel,
canal, conduit, gutter, culvert, drain, gully, swale, or wash in which waters
flow either continuously or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. A region draining to a specific river, river system, or body of
water.
   WETLAND. A lowland area, such as a marsh, which is saturated with moisture,
as defined in § 404, Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1987,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1344.
§ 24-3-3 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   Neither this article nor any administrative decision made under it exempts
the permittee or any other person from procuring other required permits or
complying with the requirements and conditions of such a permit, or limits the
right of any person to maintain, at any time, any appropriate action, at law or
in equity, for relief or damages against the permittee or any other person
arising from the activity regulated by this article.
§ 24-3-4 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities are exempt from obtaining a permit and from
following the procedures required in this article:
   (A)   Cemetery graves;
   (B)   Emergencies posing an immediate danger to life or property, or
substantial flood or fire hazards; or
   (C)   Those undertaken on agricultural land for the production and
management of crops for economic benefit.
§ 24-3-5 MANNER OF WORK.
   All land disturbing or land filling activities or soil storage, whether
pursuant to this article or otherwise, shall be undertaken in a manner designed
to minimize surface runoff, erosion, and sedimentation. Whenever the issuing
authority determines that any land disturbing activity on any private property
has become a hazard to life and limb, or endangers the property of another, or
adversely affects the safety, use, slope, or soil stability of a public way,
publicly-controlled wetland, or watercourse, then the owner of the property
upon which the land disturbing activity is located, or other person or agent in
control of said property, upon receipt of notice in writing from the issuing
authority, shall, within the period specified therein, repair or eliminate such
conditions. Exempt activities under §
24-3-4 of this article or the activities excluded under the definition of land
disturbance activities under §
24-3-2 of this article are also subject to the provisions of this section. If
the city incurs costs to enforce the provisions of the section because of any
activity listed in §
24-3-4 of this article, reimbursement of city costs associated with the
correction work completed by the city must occur prior to the issuance of a
letter certifying completion, when required under §
24-3-3 of this article.
§ 24-3-6 SWPPP PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   A construction project shall be considered in conformance with this article
if soils have been prevented from being deposited onto adjacent properties,
rights-of-ways, public storm system, or wetland or watercourse. The design,
testing, installation, and maintenance of erosion and sediment control
operations and facilities shall adhere to city-approved design standards, as
well as standards specifications in the most current authorization to discharge
under the national pollutant discharge elimination system general NPDES permit
for stormwater discharges from construction sites to waters of the state, which
shall be hereby incorporated into this article. In the event of conflict, a
copy of the NOI, SWPPP, and the CSW shall be filed with the Development
Services Department of the city and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
Inspector for the city.
§ 24-3-7 APPLICATION; FEES.
   All land disturbance activities require a stormwater permit issued by the
city. A written application for a permit from the owner of the site, or any
other authorized representative designated by the owner who has day-to-day
operational control and/or the ability to modify project plans with
specifications related to the SWPPP, in the form prescribed by §
24-3-9 of this article, shall be required for each permit. Plans and
specifications shall be prepared or approved by a qualified person, such as a
civil engineer, surveyor, architect, or landscape architect.
(Ord. 4312, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 24-3-8 PERMIT APPLICATION FORM.
   The following information is required on the application:
   (A)   Name, address, and telephone number of owner;
   (B)   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant, if different than
owner;
   (C)   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of any and all contractors,
subcontractors, or persons actually doing the land disturbing or land filling
activities and their respective tasks;
   (D)   Name(s), address (es), and telephone number(s) of the person(s)
responsible for the preparation of the site map and grading plan;
   (E)   Name(s), address (es), and telephone number(s) of the person(s)
responsible for the preparation of the SWPPP;
   (F)   Address of site;
   (G)   Date of the application; and
   (H)   Signature(s) of the owner(s) of the site or an authorized
representative.
§ 24-3-9 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.
   (A)   Before a stormwater permit will be issued by the city, a SWPPP shall
be submitted and approved by the city. The SWPPP shall be drawn to an
appropriate scale and shall include sufficient information to evaluate the
environmental characteristics of the affected areas, the potential impacts of
the proposed grading on water resources, and measures proposed to minimize soil
erosion and off-site sedimentation. The owner/developer shall perform all
clearing, grading, drainage, construction, and development in strict accordance
with the standards approved by the city and the approved SWPPP. In addition,
the following information shall be included in any plan where land disturbance
activity will be greater than one acre:
      (1)   A letter of transmittal, which includes a project narrative;
      (2)   An attached vicinity map showing the location of the site in
relationship to the surrounding area’s watercourses, water bodies and other
significant geographic features, and roads and other significant structures;
      (3)   An indication of the scale used;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner and/or
developer of the property
where the land disturbing activity is proposed;
      (5)   Suitable contours for the existing and proposed topography;
      (6)   The proposed grading or land disturbance activity including the
surface area involved, excess spoil materials, use of borrow material, and
specific limits of disturbance;
      (7)   A clear and definite delineation of any areas of vegetation or
trees to be saved;
      (8)   A clear and definite delineation of any wetlands, natural or
artificial water storage detention areas, and drainage ditches on the site;
      (9)   A clear and definite delineation of any 100-year floodplain on or
near the site;
      (10)   Storm drainage system, including quantities of flow and site
conditions around all points of surface water discharge from the site;
      (11)   Erosion and sediment control provisions to minimize on-site
erosion and prevent off-site sedimentation, including provisions to preserve
topsoil and limit disturbance;
      (12)   Design details for both temporary and permanent erosion control
structures;
      (13)   A copy of the notice of intent (NOI) for the state permit will be
submitted;
      (14)   A chronological construction schedule and time frame including, as
a minimum, the following activities:
         (a)   Clearing and grubbing for those areas necessary for installation
of perimeter erosion control devices;
         (b)   Construction of perimeter erosion control devices;
         (c)   Remaining interior site clearing and grubbing;
         (d)   Installation of permanent and temporary stabilization measures;
         (e)   Road grading;
         (f)   Grading for the remainder of the site;
         (g)   Utility installation and whether storm drains will be used or
blocked after construction;
         (h)   Building, parking lot, and site construction;
         (i)   Final grading, landscaping, or stabilization;
         (j)   Implementation and maintenance of final erosion control
structures; and
         (k)   Removal of temporary erosion control devices.
      (15)   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan Inspector may require any
additional information or data deemed appropriate and/or may impose such
conditions there to as may be deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of the NOI, CSW, or the preservation of public health and safety;
      (16)   A description of, and specifications for, sediment retention
structures;
      (17)   A description of, and specifications for, surface runoff and
erosion control devices; and
      (18)   A description of vegetative measures.
   (B)   For land disturbance activities, for less than one acre:
      (1)   Project name and description;
      (2)   Project start date and estimated completion date;
      (3)   Control measures to be installed;
      (4)   Waste disposal practices;
      (5)   Concrete washout;
      (6)   Track-out prevention practices; and
      (7)   A site map which must show the direction of stormwater flow, areas
to be disturbed, location of concrete washout, location of soil stock piles,
and location of control measures.
§ 24-3-10 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person may grade, fill,
excavate, store, stockpile, or dispose of earth materials or perform any other
land disturbing or land filling activity within the corporate limits of the
city without first obtaining a stormwater permit from the city.
§ 24-3-11 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits issued under this chapter shall be valid for the period during which
the proposed land disturbing or filling activities and soil storage takes place
or is scheduled to take place, whichever is shorter, but in no event shall such
a permit be valid for more than one year. The permittee shall commence
permitted activities within 180 days of the scheduled commencement date for
grading, or the permittee shall resubmit all required application forms, maps,
plans, and schedules to the issuing authority, except where an item to be
resubmitted is waived by the issuing authority.
§ 24-3-12 PERMIT RENEWALS/EXTENSIONS.
   The permittee shall fully perform and complete all of the work required
according to standards approved by the city in the sequence shown on the plans
within the time limit specified in the permit. Prior to the expiration of a
SWPPP, the permittee may present a written request for an extension to the
Development Services Department of the city. If, in the opinion of the issuing
authority, an extension is warranted, a one time, no fee extension, not to
exceed 90 days, may be granted. The issuing authority may authorize additional
extensions not to exceed a total of one year at the rate of $75 per extension.
§ 24-3-13 PERMIT DENIAL.
   If the issuing authority determines that the SWPPP does not meet the
requirements of this chapter, he or she shall not issue a permit for the land
disturbing activity. Factors indicating the deficiencies and the procedure for
submitting a revised plan will be given to the applicant at the time of denial.
The SWPPP must be resubmitted for approval before the land disturbance activity
begins. All land use and building permits must be suspended until the permittee
has an approved SWPPP.
§ 24-3-14 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   In granting any permit pursuant to this chapter, the issuing authority
may impose such conditions as may be reasonably necessary to prevent creation
of a nuisance or unreasonable hazard to persons or to a public or private
property.
   (B)   Such conditions shall include (even if not specifically written in the
permit), but need not be limited to:
      (1)   The granting (or securing from others) and the recording in county
land records of easements for drainage facilities, including the acceptance of
their discharge on the property of others, and for the maintenance of slopes or
erosion control facilities;
      (2)   Adequate control of dust by watering, or other control methods
acceptable to the issuing authority, and in conformance with standards approved
by the city;
      (3)   Improvements of any existing grading, ground surface, or drainage
condition on the site (not to exceed the area as proposed for work or
development in the application) to meet the standards required under this
chapter and approved by the city for new grading, drainage, and erosion
control;
      (4)   Sediment traps and basins located within a densely populated area
or in the proximity of an elementary school, playground, or other area where
small children may congregate without adult supervision, may be requested to
install additional safety related devices;
      (5)   Solid waste, industrial waste, yard waste, and any other pollutants
or waste on any construction site shall be controlled through the use of BMPs.
Waste or recycling containers shall be provided and maintained by the owner or
contractor on construction sites where there is the potential for release of
waste. Uncontained waste that may blow, wash, or otherwise be released from the
site is prohibited. Sanitary waste facilities shall be provided and maintained
in a secured manner;
      (6)   Ready-mixed concrete, or any materials resulting from the cleaning
of vehicles or equipment containing such materials or used in transporting or
applying ready-mixed concrete, shall not be allowed to discharge from any
construction site;
      (7)   Cover or perimeter control shall be applied within 14 days to any
soil stockpiles, which will remain undisturbed for longer than 30 calendar
days;
      (8)   Disturbed soil shall be managed with BMPs that are adequately
designed, installed, and maintained according to standards approved by the
city, specifications and guidance for the duration of the construction activity
to minimize erosion and contain sediment within the construction limits;
      (9)   Bulk storage structures for petroleum products and other chemicals
shall have adequate protection to contain all spills and prevent any spilled
material from entering the MS4 or waters of the state;
      (10)   Temporary BMPs shall be removed and disturbed areas shall be
stabilized with permanent BMPs at the conclusion of all approved construction
activity;
      (11)   Proposed conditions inspections must be conducted at least once
every 14 calendar days, and within 24 hours of storms that have occurred in a
24 hour period with an accumulation of precipitation that measures one-half
inch or greater. A rain gauge will be maintained on site to measure
precipitation. A description of the location of the rain gauge will be included
in the SWPPP and will be indicated on the site map;
      (12)   A copy of the SWPPP, including a copy of the permit, NOI, CSW, and
the letter from NDEQ notifying the receipt of the complete and accurate NOI,
CSW must be retained at the construction site. The SWPPP must be made available
upon request to federal, sate, and local agencies, from the date of
commencement of construction activities to the date of final stabilization;
      (13)   A sign or other notice must be posted conspicuously near the main
entrance of the construction site. The sign must contain a copy of the
completed NOI, CSW as submitted to the NDEQ, the current location of the SWPPP,
and name and telephone number of a contact person for scheduling viewing times
must be provided;
      (14)   Discharges from de-watering activities, including discharges from
de-watering of trenches and excavations, are prohibited unless managed by
appropriate controls; and
      (15)   When discharging from basins and impoundments, utilize outlet
structures that would draw water from the surface, unless infeasible.
§ 24-3-15 REQUIREMENTS FOR UTILITY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Utility agencies or their representatives shall develop and implement
BMPs to prevent the discharge of pollutants on any site of utility construction
within the city. The city may require additional BMPs on utility construction
activity. If the utility construction disturbs greater than one acre, the
utility agency must comply with the requirements of §§
24-3-9 and
24-3-10 of this article.
   (B)   Utility agencies or their representatives shall implement BMPs to
prevent the release of sediment from utility construction sites. Disturbed
areas shall be minimized, disturbed soil shall be managed, and construction
site exits shall be managed to prevent sediment tracking. Sediment tracked onto
public right-of-ways shall be removed immediately.
   (C)   Prior to entering a construction site or subdivision development,
utility agencies or their representatives shall obtain and comply with any
approved erosion and sediment control plans for the project. Any impact to
construction and post-construction BMPs resulting from utility construction
shall be evaluated prior to disturbance by the developer and utility company.
Repairs to the disturbed BMPs must be completed within 48 hours, by individuals
agreed upon during the design phase or at a preconstruction meeting.
§ 24-3-16 LIABILITY.
   The permittee is responsible for safely and legally completing the project.
Neither the issuance of a permit under the provisions of this chapter, nor the
compliance with the provisions hereto or with any condition imposed by the
issuing authority, shall relieve any person from responsibility for damage to
persons or property resulting therefrom, or as otherwise imposed by law, nor
impose any liability upon the city for damages to persons or property.
§ 24-3-17 RESPONSIBILITY OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain a copy of the permit, approved plans, and
reports required under the permit on the work site and available for public
inspection during all working hours.
   (B)   The permittee shall, at all times, be in conformity with the approved
grading plan, SWPPP, and also conform to the following.
      (1)   General. Notwithstanding other conditions or provisions of the
permit, the standards approved by the city, or minimum standards set forth in
this chapter, the permittee is responsible for the prevention of damage to
adjacent property. No person shall grade on land in any manner, or so close to
the property line as to endanger or damage any adjoining public street,
sidewalk, alley, or any other public or private property without supporting and
protecting such property from settling, cracking, erosion, sedimentation, or
other damage or personal injury which might result.
      (2)   Public ways. The permittee shall be responsible for the prompt
removal of, and the correction of damages resulting from any soil,
miscellaneous debris, or other materials washed, spilled, tracked, dumped, or
otherwise deposited on public streets, highways, sidewalks, or other public
thoroughfare, incident to the construction activity, or during transit to and
from the construction site.
§ 24-3-18 PERMIT AUTHORIZATION.
   The issuance of an SWPPP permit shall constitute an authorization to do only
the work described in the permit, or shown on the approved site plans and
specifications, all in strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter,
unless each and every modification or waiver is specifically listed and given
specific approval by the issuing authority.
§ 24-3-19 COMPLIANCE.
   The permittee, his or her agent, contractors, and employees shall carry out
the proposed work in accordance with the approved plans and specifications, and
in compliance with all standards approved by the city and the requirements of
the permit.
§ 24-3-20 ACTION UPON NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In the event work does not conform to the permit or to the plans and
specifications or to any standards approved by the issuing authority, notice to
comply shall be given to the permittee in writing. After a notice to comply is
given, in the determination of the issuing authority, the permittee or his or
her contractor shall be required to make the corrections within the time period
determined by the issuing authority. If an imminent hazard exists, the issuing
authority may require that the corrective work begin immediately.
   (B)   If the issuing authority finds any existing conditions not as stated
in the application or approved plans, he or she may stop the work on the entire
project or any specified part thereof until a revised plan is submitted
conforming to the currently existing conditions.
§ 24-3-21 CHANGES TO PLANS.
   All changes or modifications to the approved SWPPP must adhere to the
following conditions.
   (A)   All proposals to modify the approved plans must clearly documented in
the SWPPP and available to the stormwater inspector during any inspection.
   (B)   The permittee shall submit requests for major revisions to approved
SWPPP, such as the addition or deletion of a sediment basin, to the Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan Inspector, or his or her designee. This includes
revisions due to plan and site discrepancies, and inadequacies at controlling
erosion and sediment as revealed through inspection.
§ 24-3-22 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The contractor and/or their agents shall conduct a pre-construction
meeting on-site with the issuing authority on each site, when it is determined
necessary by the City Inspector and/or their designated employee. After
commencing initial grading or land disturbing activities, the permittee shall
obtain written inspection approvals by the issuing authority at the following
stages in the development of the site, or of each subdivision thereof:
      (1)   Upon completion of installation of perimeter erosion and sediment
controls, prior to proceeding with any other land disturbance or grading. Other
building or grading inspection approvals may not be authorized until initial
approval by the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan Inspector or his or her
designee is made; and
      (2)   Upon completion of final grading, permanent drainage, and erosion
control facilities including established ground covers and planting, and all
other work of the permit.
   (B)   The issuing authority may require additional inspections as may be
deemed necessary. Work shall not proceed beyond the stages outlined above until
the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan Inspector or his or her designee
inspects the site and approves the work previously completed. Requests for
inspections shall be made at least 24 hours in advance (exclusive of Saturdays,
Sundays, and holidays) of the time the inspection is desired. Upon request for
inspections, the issuing authority shall perform the inspection within 48 hours
of request. In making application for a permit covered by this chapter, the
applicant or the landowner performing or allowing such work consents to the
issuing authority having the right to enter the site for the purpose of
inspecting compliance with the SWPPP or for performing any work necessary to
bring the site into compliance with the SWPPP. This does not include consent to
enter into any building which is completed and which has been secured, but does
include consent to inspect any area of the property where land disturbing
activity is occurring or is thought to be planned as a site of land disturbing
activity.
§ 24-3-23 CHANGES DURING CONSTRUCTION REPORTS.
   The permittee shall maintain records with the SWPPP under the following
circumstances along with recommendations for corrective measures, if deemed
necessary and appropriate:
   (A)   There are delays in obtaining materials, machinery, services, or
manpower necessary to the implementation of the grading, or SWPPP as scheduled;
   (B)   There are delays in land disturbing or filling activities or soil
storage;
   (C)   The work is not being done in conformance with the approved grading or
SWPPP;
   (D)   There are any departures from the approved grading plan which may
affect implementation of the SWPPP as scheduled;
   (E)   There are any delays in the implementation of the SWPPP plans; and
   (F)   There are any other departures from implementation of the SWPPP.
§ 24-3-24 MAINTENANCE DURING AND AFTER CONSTRUCTION.
   On any property on which grading or other work has been done pursuant to a
permit granted under the provisions of this chapter, the permittee or owner,
their agent, contractor, and employees shall, at a minimum, daily inspect,
maintain, and repair all graded surfaces and erosion control facilities,
drainage structures or means, and other protective devices, plantings, and
ground cover installed while construction is active. After construction is
complete, the owner or their agent shall continue to regularly inspect the
vegetation until adequate turf establishment or other suitable vegetative cover
is established.
§ 24-3-25 SECURITY.
   The issuing authority may require the posting of a surety bond in a form
approved by the City Attorney, when in the judgment of the issuing authority,
the project provides potential for environmental damage. The bond shall be in
such form and amount as is necessary to assure that the work, if not completed
in accordance with the approved plans and specifications, will be corrected. In
lieu of a surety bond, with the approval of the issuing authority, the
applicant may file a cash bond or instrument of credit that has been approved
by the City Attorney in an amount equal to that which would be required in the
surety bond.
§ 24-3-26 ENFORCEMENT.
   The issuing authority shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (A)   The issuing authority may post a stop-work order for the entire
project or any specified part thereof, if any of the following conditions
exist:
      (1)   Any land disturbance activity regulated under this chapter is being
undertaken without a permit;
      (2)   The SWPPP is not being fully implemented; or
      (3)   Any of the conditions of the permit are not being met.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a stop-work order is validly posted
by posting a copy of the stop-work order on the site of the land disturbing
activity in reasonable proximity to a location where the land disturbing
activity is taking place. Additionally, a copy of the order, in the case of
work for which there is a permit, shall be mailed by first class mail, postage
pre-paid, to the address listed by the permittee on the permit. In the case of
work for which there is no permit, a copy of the order shall be mailed to the
person listed as owner of the property by the County Assessor on the homestead
record, or if none, to the taxpayer shown by the records of the County
Assessor.
   (C)   If the permittee does not cease the activity or comply with the SWPPP
or permit conditions within one day, the issuing authority may revoke the
permit.
   (D)   If the owner or land user where no permit has been issued does not
cease the land disturbance activity, the issuing authority may request the City
Attorney to obtain injunctive relief.
   (E)   The issuing authority may retract the revocation.
   (F)   Ten days after posting a stop-work order, the issuing authority may
issue a notice of intent to the permittee, owner, or land user of the issuing
authority’s intent to perform work necessary to comply with this chapter. The
issuing authority may go on the land and commence work after 14 days from
issuing the notice of intent. The costs incurred by the issuing authority to
perform this work shall be paid by the owner or permittee out of the bond
referred to in § 24-3-25 of this article, to the extent that the amount is
covered thereby, with the remainder being directly due and owing by the owner
or permittee. In the event no permit was issued or no bond was posted, the
cost, plus interest, at the rate authorized by the issuing authority, plus a
reasonable administrative fee, shall be billed to the owner. If in any event
the amount due is not paid, the County Assessor shall enter the amount due on
the tax roll and collect as a special assessment against the property, using
the procedures for collecting the assessment, providing for the notice of
assessment.
   (G)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter may also be enforced by
injunction.
   (H)   A notice of intent to perform work necessary to comply with this
chapter pursuant to division (F) above may be served in the manner specified
for a stop-work order in division (B) above.
§ 24-3-27 PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or agency acting as principal, agent,
employee, or otherwise, who fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class I violation, as stated in §
6-7-1 of this code, a maximum seven days imprisonment or $500 fine, or both,
for each separate offense. Each day there is a violation of any part of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 24-3-28 CERTIFICATION OF COMPLETION.
   Upon final inspection and/or upon otherwise determining that all work of the
permit has been satisfactorily completed in conformance with this code, the
permittee will be eligible to obtain a certificate of occupancy from the city.
§ 24-3-29 NOTICE OF TERMINATION.
   The permittee shall submit a N.O.T. after one or more of the following
conditions have been met and must be submitted within 30 days of one
conditions, according to the CSW, have been met:
   (A)   Final stabilization has been achieved on all portions of the site for
which you are responsible;
   (B)   Another operator has assumed control according to part VI.D.6 of the
CSW over all areas of the site that have not been finally stabilized;
   (C)   Coverage under an individual or alternative general NPDES permit has
been obtained; and
   (D)   For residential construction only, temporary erosion protection has
been completed and the residence has been reassigned to the homeowner.
ARTICLE 4: POST-CONSTRUCTION DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
24-4-1   Purpose; intent
   
24-4-2   Applicability
   
24-4-3   Additional definitions
   
24-4-4   Site performances standards
   24-4-5   Post-construction site plan review
   
24-4-5.1   Procedures for approval
   
24-4-5.2   Submittals; post-construction stormwater management plan (PCSMP)
   
24-4-6   Inspection and monitoring requirements for privately-owned stormwater
treatment facility (STFS)
§ 24-4-1 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The post-construction program addresses water quantity, potential flood, and
water quality issues. This article includes the establishment of minimum
stormwater treatment and design standards, site plan review process, as well as
maintenance, inspection, and enforcement protocol for permanent stormwater
treatment facilities (“STFs”).
(Ord. 4225, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 24-4-2 APPLICABILITY.
   Post-construction stormwater program requirements shall be applicable to all
construction activity and land development over one acre or less than an acre,
but part if a larger common plan of development or sale within the city.
(Ord. 4225, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 24-4-3 ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   70TH PERCENTILE RAIN EVENT. A rainfall storm event equivalent to a depth of
rainfall which is not exceeded in 70% of the historic runoff producing rainfall
events. The depth of rainfall to be used shall be that which is identified
using local precipitation data. The depth of rainfall is used in hydrologic
calculations to determine the water quality volume or rate of discharge to be
controlled for.
   80TH PERCENTILE RAIN EVENT. A rainfall storm event equivalent to a depth of
rainfall which is not exceeded in 80% of the historic runoff producing rainfall
events. The depth of rainfall to be used shall be that which is identified
using local precipitation data. The depth of rainfall is used in hydrologic
calculations to determine the water quality volume or rate of discharge to be
controlled for.
   BUILDER. The general contractor responsible for permitting, payment of fees,
and constructing a structure and associated construction activity.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A contiguous area where multiple
separate and distinct land disturbing activities may be taking place at
different times, on different schedules, but under one proposed plan which may
include, but is not limited to, any announcement or piece of documentation
(including a preliminary or final plat, sign, public notice or hearing, sales
pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request, computer
design, and the like) or physical demarcation (including boundary signs, lot
stakes, surveyor markings, and the like) indicating construction activities may
occur on a specific plot.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE. Any location where construction activity occurs.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person performing or managing construction work at a
construction site, including, but not limited to, any construction manager,
general contractor, or subcontractor, and any person engaged in any one or more
of the following: earthwork, pipe work, paving, building, plumbing, mechanical,
electrical, landscaping, or material supply.
   DISTURBED AREA. Area of the lands surface disturbed by any work or activity
upon the property by means including, but not limited to grading; excavating;
stockpiling soil, fill, or other materials; clearing; vegetation removal;
removal or deposit of any rock, soil, or other materials; or other activities
which expose soil. DISTURBED AREA does not include the tillage of land that is
used for agricultural production.
   DRAINAGE DESIGN GUIDANCE OR MANUAL. Documentation that references design
criteria and guidance suggested by the city for stormwater management.
   EARTHWORK. The disturbance of soil on a site associated with construction
activities.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, an independent federal agency, created
in 1970, that sets and enforces rules and standards that protect the
environment and control pollution.
   FINAL DRAINAGE PLAN. A plan that indicates the characteristics of the
complete project. The plan will also indicate the future conditions post-
construction STFs will be maintained under.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill of material, including the resulting conditions
thereof.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface in the landscape that cannot effectively
absorb or infiltrate rainfall. This includes, but is not limited to, driveways,
streets, parking lots, rooftops, and sidewalks.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT. Any land change, including, but not limited to, clearing,
digging, grubbing, stripping, removal of vegetation, dredging, grading,
excavating, transporting, and filling of land, construction, paving, and any
other installation of impervious cover.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM “MS4”. City-owned facilities by which
stormwater is collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any
roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, catch basins,
inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins,
natural and human-made or altered drainage ditches/channels, reservoirs, and
other drainage structures.
   MS4 BOUNDARY. The boundary defined by the city boundary that is subject to
the requirements of the MS4 program. In no instance shall the MS4 boundary be
less inclusive than the urbanized area map boundary prepared by the U.S. Census
Bureau, the minimum boundary adopted by the EPA for Phase II communities as
part of the MS4 program.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM “NPDES” STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b), such as, Nebraska Department of Environmental
Quality) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the state.
   OWNER. The person who owns a facility, development, part of a facility, or
land.
   POLLUTION. The presence in waters of the state of any substances,
contaminants, pollutants, or human-made or human induced impairment of waters,
or alteration of the chemical, physical, biological, or radiological integrity
of water in quantities or at levels which are or may be potentially harmful or
injurious to human health or welfare, animal or plant life, or property or
which unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property, including
outdoor recreation, unless authorized by applicable law.
   POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. Permanent stormwater management for
a site that controls stormwater runoff for a set duration after a storm. The
management of stormwater includes the use of STFs that meet minimum site
performance standards in accordance with the city’s MS4 permit. STFs are
intended to provide stormwater treatment during this time period and are
considered functional after vegetation has been established.
   POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. Documentation supporting
analysis, design, maintenance, and inspection of STFs installed on a site in
order to meet minimum site performance standards in accordance with the city’s
MS4 permit.
   RECEIVING WATER. Any water of the state, including any and all surface
waters that are contained in or flow in or through the state, all watercourses,
even if they are usually dry, irrigation ditches that receive municipal
stormwater, and storm sewer systems owned by other entities.
   SEDIMENT. Soil (or mud) that has been disturbed or eroded and transported
naturally by water, wind or gravity, or mechanically by any person.
   SITE. The land or water area where any facility or activity is physically
located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the
facility or activity.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES “STFS”. Permanent Best Management Practices
put in place to provide control and treatment of stormwater runoff after
construction activity for land development is complete. These facilities are
physical in nature and sometimes referred to as “structural” BMPS.
   SUBDIVISION. Includes activities associated with the platting of any parcel
of land into two or more lots and all construction activity taking place
thereon.
   UTILITIES. Infrastructure constructed to provide services that support land
development, such as water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, electric, gas,
telephone, television, and communication services.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Any and all surface and subsurface waters that are
contained in or flow in or through the state. The definition includes all
watercourses, even if they are usually dry.
(Ord. 4225, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 24-4-4 SITE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permanent BMP or STFs design, installation, implementation, and
maintenance must consider infiltration, evapo-transpiration, harvesting, and/or
using stormwater discharges to provide water quality measures to runoff.
Discharge standards must consider site discharge volume, rate, duration, and
frequency to protect and maintain pre-development hydrology to the maximum
extent practicable.
   (B)   The most recent versions of the following design guides and manuals
are approved for general use in the design of STFs:
      (1)   City of Omaha, “Omaha Regional Stormwater Design Manual – Chapter
8: Stormwater Best Management Practices”;
      (2)   City of Lincoln, “Drainage Criteria Manual - Chapter 8: Stormwater
Best Management Practices”;
      (3)   NDOR, “Drainage and Erosion Control Manual – Chapter 3: Stormwater
Treatment within MS4 Communities”; and
      (4)   Urban Drainage and Flood Control District (UDFCD), “Urban Storm
Drainage Criteria Manual, Volume 3: Best Management Practices”.
   (C)   The designer is encouraged to adopt one design guide/manual for use on
a project to the extent practicable.
(Ord. 4225, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 24-4-5 POST-CONSTRUCTION SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   Land development that meets the land disturbance criteria in this article
must address stormwater runoff quality and quantity in the drainage plan for
any subdivision plat, annexation plat, development agreement, subdivision
agreement, or other local development plan.
(Ord. 4225, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 24-4-5.1 PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Platting.
      (1)   For major subdivision applications, drainage and post-construction
shall be discussed at the pre-application conference. This would be followed by
an initial review of the general design at the preliminary platting stage and
detailed design carrying over into final design review.
      (2)   The plat applicant shall identify in the drainage report:
         (a)   The estimated amount of impervious surface;
         (b)   The estimated amount of runoff to be mitigated off site at
regional facilities (regional STFs) or addressed by other means approved by the
city; and
         (c)   How the runoff will be routed to the city’s retention facilities
or managed on site.
   (B)   Building permits. When seeking a building permit, the applicant will
need to provide to the city the square footage of all impervious surfaces to be
constructed on the lot.
(Ord. 4225, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 24-4-5.2 SUBMITTALS; POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (PCSMP).
   The Post Construction Stormwater Management Plan (PCSMP) submittal will
include the following components.
   (A)   Plans.
      (1)   Plans showing topographic survey information along with proposed
grading, stormwater infrastructure (including routes to municipal STFs),
pavement, and structures shall accompany any PCSMP submittal. Specifically,
plans shall include the following information:
         (a)   Site topography, including existing contours, property lines and
easements, utilities, and site features, such as existing water bodies, trees
and shrubs, pavement, and other structures;
         (b)   Proposed contours;
         (c)   Proposed inlets, storm sewer, culverts, and drainageways;
         (d)   Proposed routes to municipal-owned STFs and/or detention
facilities; and
         (e)   Proposed roadways, parking, building footprints, and other
structures.
      (2)   Final plans shall be representative of the intended construction
bid package.
   (B)   Calculations.
      (1)   All calculations for water quality volume and water quality volume
discharge rate shall be
submitted to the city as part of the site development drainage study.
      (2)   As-built certification within 90 days of project completion.
(Ord. 4225, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 24-4-6 INSPECTION AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIVATELY-OWNED STORMWATER
TREATMENT FACILITIES (STFS).
   (A)   Private Stormwater Treatment Facilities (STFs) must be inspected
annually and maintained in perpetuity by the current property owner who is
solely responsible for the cost of inspections, maintenance, and repairs of the
STF.
   (B)   The owner shall maintain a written STF maintenance procedure and
record of all STF inspections, maintenance, disposal, and repairs. Records
shall be made available to the city on demand and include the date and time of
the event and description of inspection, maintenance, or repair conducted. All
records shall be signed by the authorized owner or operator or a representative
of the owner or operator, and kept on file for three years from the date of the
activity.
   (C)   Privately-owned STFs may be inspected by the city as often as deemed
necessary to assure compliance with this article. Such inspections may be
unannounced. The city may review the STF records on inspection, maintenance,
disposal activities, and may order the facility to make changes or repairs as
necessary to comply with this article.
      (1)   Inspections will not be limited to STFs but shall include all
structures, equipment, or facility operations that may result in significant
quantities of stormwater pollutants or water volume. Other pertinent data and
documentation will be subject to verification at the time of inspection.
      (2)   The city may sample and analyze stormwater runoff from STFs at any
time to determine compliance with all provisions of the municipal code.
      (3)   The city may determine the adequacy of the STF based on review of
all pertinent information regarding STF performance and facility operations and
may, at its discretion, order the installation of a more effective STF.
   (D)   Enforcement of the article shall be governed by the provisions of §§
24-2-17 through
24-2-23. of this chapter
(Ord. 4225, passed 3-5-2018)
CHAPTER 25: ZONING
   Article
      
1.   TITLE, FINDINGS, AND PURPOSE
      
2.   DEFINITIONS
      
3.   ZONING DISTRICT PROVISIONS
      
4.   FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES
      
5.   OFF-STREET PARKING/LOADING
      
6.   SIGNS
      
7.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
      
8.   HOME OCCUPATIONS
      
9.   MOBILE HOMES
      
10.   TRAVEL TRAILERS
      
11.   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES
      
12.   NONCONFORMING USES
      
13.   SPECIAL PERMITS
      
14.   VARIANCES
      
15.   REZONING; AMENDMENTS
      
16.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
17.   APPEALS
      
18.   VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
      
19.   FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE
      
20.   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
      
21.   SATELLITE EARTH STATIONS
      
22.   LANDSCAPING
      
23.   AIRPORT ZONING OVERLAY AREA
      
24.   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
ARTICLE 1: TITLE, FINDINGS, AND PURPOSE
Section
   
25-1-1   Scottsbluff Zoning Code; citation
   
25-1-2   Findings
   
25-1-3   Purposes
   
25-1-3.1   Jurisdiction
   
25-1-4   Zones; location; maps
   
25-1-5 – 25-1-90   Repealed
§ 25-1-1 SCOTTSBLUFF ZONING CODE; CITATION.
This chapter is known as the “Scottsbluff Zoning Code” and may be cited by that
name.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-1-2 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds that the regulations contained in the Scottsbluff
Zoning Code are necessary to:
   (A)   Encourage the most appropriate use of land;
   (B)   Lessen congestion in the streets;
   (C)   Secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers;
   (D)   Provide adequate light and air and freedom from undue noise;
   (E)   Prevent overcrowding of land;
   (F)   Avoid undue concentration of population;
   (G)   Facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewerage,
schools, parks, and other public requirements;
   (H)   Protect properly from blight and depreciation;
   (I)   Protect the basis for taxation and secure economy in government; and
   (J)   Promote health, safety, morals, and the general welfare.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-1-3 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this Zoning Code are to:
   (A)   Promote health, safety, morals, and the general welfare of the
community;
   (B)   Regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, and size of
buildings and other structures;
   (C)   Regulate and restrict percentage of a lot or tract of land that may be
occupied, the size of yards, courts, and other open spaces, and the density of
population;
   (D)   Regulate and restrict the locations and use of buildings, structures,
lots, and tracts of land for trade industry, residence, or other purposes;
   (E)   Divide the area subject to this chapter into zones of the shape, size,
and number which will best effectuate this code; and
   (F)   Provide for effective enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-1-3.1 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   As authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 16, Article 9, as such statutes may
exist and may be subsequently amended, the city does hereby declare that all
existing and future zoning regulations, property use regulations, building
ordinances, electrical ordinances, plumbing ordinances, and ordinances
authorized by Neb. RS 16-240 are effective within the following described area,
which area includes the entire city and certain areas outside the city:
beginning at the intersection of South Broadway Avenue and the North Platte
River, proceeding west along the north bank of the North Platte River to the
Mitchell/Gering Canal, then generally west along the Mitchell/Gering Canal to
the right-of-way of the Union Pacific Railroad, then northwest along the right-
of-way of the Union Pacific Railroad to West 20th Street extended west, then
east along West 20th Street extended west to the east bank of the North Platte
River, then north along the east bank of the North Platte River to Tubb Springs
Creek, then north along Tubb Springs Creek to Farmstead Road, then east along
Farmstead Road to County Road 19, then north along County Road 19 to County
Road H, then east along County Road H to County Road 20, then north along
County Road 20 to the Tri-State Canal, then generally east along the Tri-State
Canal to County Road G, then east along County Road G to the Dunham Andrew
Drain, then south and east along the Dunham Andrew Drain to Winters Creek
Canal, then south and west along Winters Creek Canal to Enterprise Drive, then
south along Enterprise Drive to Winters Creek Canal, then east and south along
Winters Creek Canal to County Road 25, then south on County Road 25 to County
Road M, then west on County Road M to the half section line which separates the
west and east halves of Section 32, Township 22 North, Range 54 West of the 6th
P.M., Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska, then south on this half-section line to
the north bank of the North Platte River, then generally west along the north
bank of the North Platte River to the point of beginning.
   (B)   Real property contiguous or adjacent to the existing corporate limits
of the city which is hereafter annexed to the city by ordinance shall be
included in the corporate limits of the city and subject to all existing and
future zoning regulations, property use regulations, building ordinances,
electrical ordinances, plumbing ordinances, and ordinances authorized by Neb.
RS 16-240.
(Ord. 3930, passed - -2007; Ord. 4325, passed 3-18-2024; Ord. 4329, passed 5-6-
2024)
§ 25-1-4 ZONES; LOCATION; MAPS.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts created in this chapter are shown on
the zoning district map which is made a part of this municipal code. The zoning
district map and all information shown thereon shall have the same force and
effect as if fully set forth and described herein. The official zoning district
map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested by the City
Clerk under the following statement: this is to certify that this is the
official zoning district map described in § 25-1-4 of the Scottsbluff Municipal
Code, passed this 29th day of April, 2024.
(Ord. 4113, passed - -2013; Ord. 4118, passed - -2014; Ord. 4119, passed - -
2014; Ord. 4144, passed - -2015; Ord. 4165, passed - -2015; Ord. 4168, passed -
-; Ord. 4220, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 4230, passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 4236, passed 9-
17-2018; Ord. 4242, passed 1-7-2019; Ord. 4249, passed 10-7-2019; Ord. 4257,
passed 1-2-2021; Ord. 4259, passed 6-21-2021; Ord. 4265, passed 11-1-2021; Ord.
4274, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 4275, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 4279, passed 4-4-2022;
Ord. 4281, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 4282, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 4289, passed 10-
3-2022; Ord. 4297, passed 1-17-2023; Ord. 4317, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 4319,
passed 1-2-2024; Ord. 4322, passed 3-4-2024; Ord. 4323, passed 3-4-2024; Ord.
4328, passed 4-29-2024)
§§ 25-1-5 – 25-1-90 REPEALED.
ARTICLE 2: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
25-2-1   Words; usage
   
25-2-2   Accessory building
   
25-2-3   Adult bookstore
   
25-2-3.1   Agricultural attractions
   
25-2-4   Alley
   
25-2-5   All weather surfacing
   
25-2-6   Apartment
   
25-2-7   Arterial street
   
25-2-8   Automobile service station
   
25-2-9   Automobile wrecking yard
   
25-2-10   Basement
   
25-2-11   Billboard
   
25-2-12   Block
   25-2-13   Boarding, rooming, or lodging house
   
25-2-13.1   Body piercing
   
25-2-13.2   Branding
   
25-2-13.3   Brewery
   
25-2-13.4   Brewery; micro
   
25-2-13.5   Brew pub
   
25-2-14   Building
   
25-2-15   Building coverage
   
25-2-16   Building line
   
25-2-17   Building; height of
   
25-2-18   Camper
   
25-2-19   Carport
   
25-2-20   Child care center or preschool
   
25-2-21   Clinic
   
25-2-22   Club or lodge; private
   
25-2-23   Cluster housing development
   
25-2-24   Common areas
   
25-2-25   Condominium
   
25-2-26   Condominium development
   
25-2-27   Condominium Property Act
   
25-2-27.1   Convenience warehouse storage facility
   
25-2-28   Corral
   
25-2-29   Court
   
25-2-30   Day care
   25-2-31   Decorative landscape feature
   
25-2-31.1   Distillery
   
25-2-31.2   Distillery; micro
   
25-2-32   Domestic violence shelter
   
25-2-33   Dormitory
   
25-2-34   Duplex
   
25-2-35   Dwelling
   
25-2-36   Dwelling unit
   
25-2-37   Dwelling; one-family or single-family
   
25-2-38   Dwelling; two-family
   
25-2-39   Dwelling; multiple-family
   
25-2-40   Family
   
25-2-41   Family child care home
   
25-2-42   Feedlot
   
25-2-43   Fence
   
25-2-44   Fence; perimeter
   
25-2-45   Fence; privacy
   
25-2-46   Fertilizer storage and mixing plant
   
25-2-47   Floor area
   
25-2-48   Floor area ratio
   
25-2-49   Frontage
   
25-2-50   Garage
   
25-2-51   Garage; private
   
25-2-52   Garage; public
   
25-2-53   Grade
   
25-2-54   Gross floor area
   25-2-55   Home occupation
   
25-2-55.1   Emergency shelter
   
25-2-56   Hotel/motel
   
25-2-57   Junkyard
   
25-2-58   Kennel, dog
   
25-2-59   Living quarters
   
25-2-60   Lodge; private
   
25-2-61   Lodging house
   
25-2-62   Lot
   
25-2-63   Lot area
   
25-2-64   Lot; corner
   
25-2-65   Lot coverage
   
25-2-66   Lot depth
   
25-2-67   Lot; double frontage
   
25-2-68   Lot; interior
   
25-2-69   Lot; key
   
25-2-70   Lot line
   
25-2-71   Lot line; front
   
25-2-72   Lot line; rear
   
25-2-73   Lot line; side
   
25-2-74   Lot of record
   
25-2-75   Lot; reversed corner
   
25-2-76   Lot width
   
25-2-77   Main building
   
25-2-78   Manufactured home
   
25-2-79   Master deed
   
25-2-80   Mobile home
   
25-2-81   Mobile home park
   
25-2-82   Mobile home planned unit development
   
25-2-83   Mobile home park drives
   
25-2-84   Mobile home space
   
25-2-85   Municipal uses
   
25-2-86   Nursing home
   
25-2-87   Occupancy
   
25-2-88   Open space
   
25-2-89   Open space; common
   25-2-90   Pharmacy
   
25-2-90.1   Permanent color technology
   
25-2-90.2   Permanent cosmetic facility
   
25-2-91   Person
   
25-2-92   Property
   
25-2-93   Planned business center
   
25-2-94   Recreation areas
   
25-2-95   Recycling center
   
25-2-96   Reversed frontage
   
25-2-97   Rooming house
   
25-2-98   Satellite earth station, height
   
25-2-99   Scrap metal processing facility
   
25-2-100   Service building
   
25-2-101   Setback line
   
25-2-102   Setback line; front
   
25-2-103   Setback line; rear
   25-2-104   Setback line; side
   
25-2-104.1   Sight triangle
   
25-2-105   Sign
   
25-2-106   Sign; area of
   
25-2-107   Sign structure
   
25-2-108   Sign; accessory
   
25-2-109   Sign; attached
   
25-2-110   Sign; detached
   
25-2-111   Sign; mobile
   
25-2-112   Sign; extending
   25-2-113   Sign; political
   
25-2-113.1   Sign; temporary detached
   
25-2-114   Solid waste transfer station
   
25-2-115   Specified anatomical areas
   
25-2-116   Specified sexual activities
   
25-2-117   Store
   
25-2-118   Story
   
25-2-119   Story; half
   
25-2-120   Street
   
25-2-121   Street; front
   
25-2-122   Street; side
   
25-2-123   Structure
   
25-2-124   Structural alteration
   25-2-125   Subdivision
   
25-2-125.1   Tattooing
   
25-2-125.2   Tattoo/body piercing establishment
   
25-2-126   Temporary
   
25-2-127   Townhouse
   
25-2-128   Travel trailer
   
25-2-129   Trailer park
   
25-2-130   Unit
   
25-2-131   Use; accessory
   
25-2-132   Use; conditional
   
25-2-133   Use; nonconforming
   
25-2-134   Use; permitted
   
25-2-135   Use; principal
   
25-2-136   Used car lot
   
25-2-137   Variance
   
25-2-138   Yard
   
25-2-139   Yard; front
   
25-2-140   Yard; rear
   
25-2-141   Yard; side
   
25-2-142   Zoning district
   
25-2-143   Zoning map
§ 25-2-1 WORDS; USAGE.
   The following words are used in this chapter in the following manner.
   MAY. A person, organization, board, or association may, but is not required,
to act in the manner stated.
   SHALL and MUST. A person, organization, board, or association has a
mandatory duty to act in the manner stated; such words are not used to declare
a legal result.
   SHALL NOT, MAY NOT, and MUST NOT. A person, organization, board, or
association has a mandatory duty to refrain from acting in the manner stated.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-2 ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building detached from the main building which is
located on the lot or tract of land and whose use is subordinate to, and
appropriate and customarily incidental to the use of the main building.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-3 ADULT BOOKSTORE.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. Any establishment in which the preponderance of the
material offered for sale, rent, or display is characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as those terms are defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-3.1 AGRICULTURAL ATTRACTIONS.
   AGRICULTURAL ATTRACTIONS.  A premises used primarily for agricultural for
the purpose of raising and harvesting crops for sale, that also includes a
limited amount of area devoted to the provision of entertainment for a period
of no more than four months per year. Examples of agricultural attractions
include, but are not limited to, Pumpkin Patch, Apple Orchard, or Corn Maze.
The sale of other goods and entertainment is permitted in areas of the premises
during the allowable operating period. Attractions shall not include mechanical
rides other than hayrack and sightseeing vehicles.
(Ord. 4270, passed 1-3-2022)
§ 25-2-4 ALLEY.
   ALLEY. A public way, usually situated at the rear of a lot, which serves as
a secondary means of access to the abutting lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-5 ALL WEATHER SURFACING.
   ALL WEATHER SURFACING. A surface consisting of four inches of stabilized
base overlaid with at least two inches of gravel, concrete, or asphaltic
surfacing.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-6 APARTMENT.
   APARTMENT. For purposes of a condominium property development, an enclosed
space consisting of one or more rooms occupying all or part of a floor in a
building of one or more floors or stories regardless of whether it be designed
for residence, for office, for the operation of any industry or business, or
for any other type of independent use, provided it has a direct exit to a
thoroughfare or to a given common space leading to a thoroughfare.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-7 ARTERIAL STREET.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A through street designed to carry the accumulated traffic
of other streets feeding into it through the city.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-8 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A business place, located on premises that abut
on a street or highway, which supplies motorists with gasoline, oil, tires, and
automobile accessories and services at retail direct to the motorist, including
the making of minor repairs, but excluding making such major repairs as:
      (1)   Spray painting;
      (2)   Axle, body, clutch, differential, fender, frame, spring, and
transmission repairs;
      (3)   Major engine overhaul requiring removal of the cylinder head or
crankcase pan;
      (4)   Radiator repair requiring its removal; or
      (5)   Complete recapping or retreading of tires. The terms “filling
station” and “service station” are included in this definition.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-9 AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. An area outside a building:
      (1)   Where motor vehicles are disassembled, dismantled, wrecked, or
junked;
      (2)   Where motor vehicles not in operating condition are stored; or
      (3)   Where used parts for motor vehicles are stored.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-10 BASEMENT.
   BASEMENT. Part of a building, wholly or partly below grade level, in which
the greater part of the distance between its floor and ceiling is below grade
level. A BASEMENT is not counted as a story in computing the number of stories
a building has.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-11 BILLBOARD.
   BILLBOARD. An advertising sign which directs the attention of the public to
a business/activity conducted, or product sold or offered for sale at a
location not on the same premises where such sign
is located.
(Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-12 BLOCK.
   BLOCK. An area enclosed by streets. When used as a term of measurement, it
means:
      (1)   The distance measured along the centerline of a street between two
intersecting streets; or
      (2)   If a dead-end street, the distance measured between the nearest
intersecting street and the lot line abutting the dead end.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-13 BOARDING, ROOMING, OR LODGING HOUSE.
   BOARDING, ROOMING, OR LODGING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where
either lodging or meals or both, for five or more persons are provided for
compensation.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-13.1 BODY PIERCING.
   BODY PIERCING. Puncturing the skin of a person by aid of needles or other
instruments designed or used to puncture the skin for the purpose of inserting
removable jewelry or other objects through the human body, except that body
piercing does not include puncturing the external part of the human ear lobe.
(Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-13.2 BRANDING.
   BRANDING. A permanent mark made on human tissue by burning with a hot iron
or other instrument.
(Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-13.3 BREWERY.
   BREWERY. Any industrial use that brews ales, beers, meads, and/or similar
beverages on site. BREWERIES are classified as a use that manufactures more
than 10,000 barrels of beverage (all beverages combined) annually.
(Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-13.4 BREWERY; MICRO.
   MICRO BREWERY. A facility for the production and packaging of malt beverages
of low alcoholic content for distribution retail or wholesale, on- or off-
premises, with a capacity of not more than 10,000 barrels per year. The
development may include other uses, such as a standard restaurant, bar, or live
entertainment as otherwise permitted in the zoning district.
(Ord. 4208, passed - -2017; Ord. 4241, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 25-2-13.5 BREW PUB.
   BREW PUB. A restaurant or hotel which includes the brewing of beer as an
accessory use. The brewing operation processes water, malt, hops, and yeast
into beer or ale by mashing, cooking, and fermenting. By definition, these
establishments produce no more than 10,000 barrels of beer or ale annually. The
area, by definition, used for brewing, including bottling and kegging, shall
not exceed 50% of the total floor area of the commercial space.
(Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-14 BUILDING.
   BUILDING. Any structure which has a roof supported by columns or walls,
whether above or below ground level.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-15 BUILDING COVERAGE.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The percentage of the area of a lot or other tract of
land which is covered by the maximum horizontal cross-section of a building or
buildings located on it. Structures, including shelters for nuclear fallout, of
which no part is above the grade of the lot, are not included in building
coverage.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-16 BUILDING LINE.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel, or nearly parallel, to either the street
line or the lot line not abutting the street and at a specified distance from
the street or lot line which marks the minimum distance from either line that a
building may be erected. For buildings erected prior to June 10, 1974, the
BUILDING LINE means the exterior wall or omitted wall line closest to the
street or other lot line.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-17 BUILDING; HEIGHT OF.
   The distance measured vertically at the front of the building from the mean
grade to the highest peak
of the roof.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-18 CAMPER.
   See TRAVEL TRAILER. 
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-19 CARPORT.
   CARPORT. A structure or a part of a structure, other than a garage, used to
shelter motor vehicles.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-20 CHILD CARE CENTER OR PRESCHOOL.
   CHILD CARE CENTER or PRESCHOOL. A place where care is provided:
      (1)   To four or more children under the age of 13 at any one time from
families other than the provider’s own;
      (2)   Care may be provided any hour of the day, provided that any
individual child may only be present for 12 hours or less per day;
      (3)   For compensation, either indirect or direct;
      (4)   On a regular basis;
      (5)   By a person other than their parents/guardians; and
      (6)   In full compliance with all of the applicable laws and regulations
of the state pertaining to day care, whether such laws and regulations exist at
the time of the passage of this chapter or are hereafter adopted.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-21 CLINIC.
   CLINIC. A place where care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick, infirm, or
injured persons or those needing medical or surgical attention is provided, but
where board, room, or overnight lodging is not provided.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-22 CLUB OR LODGE; PRIVATE.
   CLUB OR LODGE; PRIVATE. A building and facilities owned or operated by a
corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit nor to render a service
customarily carried on as a business.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-23 CLUSTER HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
   CLUSTER HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A housing development comprising a group of
tracts of real estate the areas of which are not required to comply
individually within minimum lot area requirements, and which, for the purpose
of compliance with minimum area requirements, may include the areas of common
areas. Residential structures in such a development may have common walls, but
the term does not include multi-story apartment type developments.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-24 COMMON AREAS.
   COMMON AREAS. An entire planned unit development except all spaces therein
granted or reserved to separate ownership.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-25 CONDOMINIUM.
   CONDOMINIUM. An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest
in common in a portion of a lot, block, or other tract of real estate, whether
used for residential, business, commercial, or industrial purposes, together
with a separate interest in a building on such tract. A CONDOMINIUM may
include, in addition, a separate interest in other portions of such real
property.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-26 CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT.
   CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT. An entire lot, block, or tract of land, and all
structures thereon, which are or are to be, owned under a condominium regime.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-27 CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY ACT.
   CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY ACT. The Condominium Property Act of the state or the
Nebraska Condominium Act as set forth in the state statutes, as now existing or
hereafter amended.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-27.1 CONVENIENCE WAREHOUSE STORAGE FACILITY.
   CONVENIENCE WAREHOUSE STORAGE FACILITY. A series of storage spaces contained
in one building or in a series of buildings which are designed and used for the
purpose of renting or leasing individual storage spaces to persons in order
that any person renting or leasing one or more of such individual storage
spaces shall have access for the purpose of storing property therein.
(Ord. 3924, passed - -2006; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-28 CORRAL.
   CORRAL. An enclosure designed for the confinement of livestock, within which
livestock in excess of 150 head at a particular time are confined.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-29 COURT.
   COURT. An open unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or buildings and bounded on one or more sides by such building or
buildings.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-30 DAY CARE.
   DAY CARE. The provision of care:
      (1)   To children under 13 years of age to four or more children at any
one time from families other than the provider’s own;
      (2)   Care may be provided any hour of the day, provided that any
individual child may only be present for 12 hours or less per day;
      (3)   For compensation, either direct or indirect;
      (4)   On a regular basis;
      (5)   By a person other than their parents/guardians;
      (6)   In a single-family detached dwelling unit; and
      (7)   In full compliance with all of the applicable laws and regulations
of the state pertaining to DAY CARE whether such laws and regulations exist at
the time of the passage of this chapter or are hereafter adopted.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-31 DECORATIVE LANDSCAPE FEATURE.
   DECORATIVE LANDSCAPE FEATURE. Any structure or object, composed of any
material, natural or artificial, erected, planted, or positioned to enhance the
visual or aesthetic value of the landscape of a tract of land.
(Ord. 3868, passed - -2005; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-31.1 DISTILLERY.
   DISTILLERY. Any industrial use that distills on site. DISTILLERIES are
classified as a use that manufactures more than 10,000 gallons annually.
(Ord. 4241, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 25-2-31.2 DISTILLERY; MICRO.
   DISTILLERY; MICRO. A facility which distills and packages liquor for retail
or wholesale on- or off-premises, produces 10,000 or fewer gallons of liquor
annually, and is licensed by the state. The facility may include other uses
such as a bar, tavern, tasting room, standard restaurant, or live entertainment
as otherwise permitted in the zoning district.
(Ord. 4241, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 25-2-32 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE SHELTER.
   DOMESTIC VIOLENCE SHELTER. Any structure which is used primarily to provide
temporary lodging and sanctuary for adult and child victims of domestic
violence. No structure shall be considered a DOMESTIC VIOLENCE SHELTER unless
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The shelter must be staffed by at least one person during the hours
of operation in which the structure is occupied by a victim or victims;
      (2)   No more than five adult victims may occupy the premises during a
24-hour period; and
      (3)   Occupancy by a victim of domestic violence shall not exceed seven
consecutive days.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-33 DORMITORY.
   DORMITORY. A building or part of a building containing a room or rooms each
designed or intended to be rented for occupancy by more than two persons.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-34 DUPLEX.
   DUPLEX. A dwelling consisting of two-family units split horizontally.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-35 DWELLING.
   DWELLING. A building, or part thereof, designed for residential occupancy.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-36 DWELLING UNIT.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room, or group of rooms with kitchen facilities intended to
be occupied as separate living quarters by a family, a group of persons living
together, or a person living alone.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-37 DWELLING; ONE-FAMILY OR SINGLE-FAMILY.
   DWELLING; ONE-FAMILY OR SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for
occupancy by only one family.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-38 DWELLING; TWO-FAMILY.
   DWELLING; TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy under
one roof by two families living independently of each other.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-39 DWELLING; MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   DWELLING; MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or a part thereof, designed for
occupancy under one roof by four or more families living independently of each
other.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-40 FAMILY.
   FAMILY.
   One or more persons living together and sharing common living, sleeping,
cooking and eating facilities within an individual dwelling unit, no more than
four of whom may be unrelated. The following persons shall be considered
related for the purposes of this definition:
      (1)   Persons related by blood, marriage or adoption;
      (2)   Persons residing with a family for the purpose of adoption;
      (3)   Not more than eight persons residing in a foster house licensed
and/or approved by the State of Nebraska; and
      (4)   Person(s) living with a family at the direction of a court.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017; Ord. 4264, passed 10-18-2021)
§ 25-2-41 FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME.
   FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. A place where care is provided:
      (1)   To four or more, but not exceeding 12, children under age 13 at any
one time from families other than that of the provider;
      (2)   For on the average of less than 12 hours per day;
      (3)   For compensation, either direct or indirect;
      (4)   On a regular basis;
      (5)   By a person other than their parents or guardians;
      (6)   In the home of the person providing the care; and
      (7)   In full compliance with all the applicable laws and regulations of
the state pertaining to child care, whether such laws and regulations exist at
the time of the passage of this chapter or are hereafter adopted.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-42 FEEDLOT.
   FEEDLOT. An enclosure designed for the confinement of livestock or other
commercially slaughterable animals or fowl, within which are confined at any
particular time (not necessarily, repeatedly) animals or fowl, to which feed
not grown within the enclosure is regularly provided, when a permit is required
by NDEQ.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-43 FENCE.
   FENCE. Any tangible barrier or obstruction composed of any material, natural
or artificial, placed for the purpose, or having the effect, or preventing
passage or view across the barrier or obstruction. The term includes “hedges”
and “walls.”
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-44 FENCE; PERIMETER.
   FENCE; PERIMETER. A fence which encloses, or substantially encloses, two or
more contiguous or adjacent lots, blocks, or tracts of land.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-45 FENCE; PRIVACY.
   FENCE; PRIVACY. Any fence erected or positioned to block a view of enclosed
property.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-46 FERTILIZER STORAGE AND MIXING PLANT.
   FERTILIZER STORAGE AND MIXING PLANT. A facility where fertilizer or raw
materials used in the mixing or manufacturing of fertilizer are stored and the
component parts are mixed to make liquid and dry fertilizers or various
combinations or blends of fertilizer. FERTILIZER STORAGE AND MIXING PLANT shall
not include the storage or sale of prepackaged fertilizer which does not
require any mixing or blending prior to sale or distribution.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-47 FLOOR AREA.
   FLOOR AREA. The total number of square feet of floor space within the
exterior walls of a building, not including space in cellars and basements.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-48 FLOOR AREA RATIO.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The total floor area on a zoning lot divided by the lot
area of that zoning lot. For example, a building containing 20,000 square feet
of floor area on a zoning lot containing 10,000 square feet of area has a floor
area ratio of two to one.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-49 FRONTAGE.
   FRONTAGE. The part of a lot which abuts a public right-of-way or the
principal means of access to the lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-50 GARAGE.
   GARAGE. A structure, or part thereof, in which one or more motor vehicles
are housed, stored, kept, or repaired. It does not include an exhibition room,
show room, or warehouse where cars kept for sale are stored.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-51 GARAGE; PRIVATE.
   GARAGE; PRIVATE. An accessory building, or an accessory part of a principal
building, which is primarily intended and used for storage of privately-owned
motor vehicles, boats, and trailers of the family or families residing on the
premises where it is located but in which no business, service, or industry
connected directly or indirectly with motor vehicles, boats, or trailers is
carried on. It includes a carport.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-52 GARAGE; PUBLIC.
   GARAGE; PUBLIC. A building where motor vehicles, boats, or trailers are
painted, rebuilt, reconstructed, repaired, or stored for compensation.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-53 GRADE.
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building or structure.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-54 GROSS FLOOR AREA.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of floor space within the exterior walls of
a building.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-55 HOME OCCUPATION.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A business or profession, or an aspect thereof, which is
carried on within a dwelling, or a building accessory thereto, and which by
custom in the community constitutes a use of the premises which is incidental
to use of the premises for dwelling purposes.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-55.1 EMERGENCY SHELTER.
   EMERGENCY SHELTER. A residential facility operated by a government agency or
by a private non-profit organization, which facility provides temporary
accommodations to individuals or families who lack a fixed regular and/or
adequate night-time residence.
(Ord. 3965, passed - -2008; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-56 HOTEL/MOTEL.
   HOTEL/MOTEL A building, or group of buildings, designed chiefly to provide
for compensation for temporary lodging, with or without meals, containing
individual sleeping units:
      (1)   Principally designed or used for temporary occupancy by tourists or
transients;
      (2)   With convenient parking space for each unit; and
      (3)   With an entrance to each guest room or suite from an interior
central hallway or independent exterior entrance.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-57 JUNKYARD.
   JUNKYARD. A space of 200 square feet or more located on a lot or tract of
land which is used to store, dismantle, demolish, process, or abandon junk, or
abandoned vehicles. The term “junk” shall have the meaning given to it in § 12-
1-1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-58 KENNEL; DOG.
   KENNEL; DOG. A building, structure, or premises in or on which more than
three dogs, at least five months of age, are harbored. The term does not
include a dog pound operated by or under contract with the city.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-59 LIVING QUARTERS.
   LIVING QUARTERS. One or more rooms in a building designed for occupancy by
one or more persons which may be used for living or sleeping purposes.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-60 LODGE; PRIVATE.
   See CLUB; PRIVATE. 
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-61 LODGING HOUSE.
   See CLUB; PRIVATE.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-62 LOT.
   LOT. A single building site or a single parcel of land designated as a lot
on a subdivision plat, a record of survey map, or described as such by metes
and bounds, having sufficient area to accommodate a main building authorized,
with respect to its location, by the municipal code. It includes two or more
previously separate lots, or parts of lots, combined as a single building site
for use as a single parcel of land.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-63 LOT AREA.
   LOT AREA. The total area of a lot lying within its lot lines.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-64 LOT; CORNER.
   LOT; CORNER. A lot situated at an intersection of two or more streets whose
intersection angle does not exceed 135 degrees.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-65 LOT COVERAGE.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of lot area covered by the buildings and
structures located on the lot. Buildings and structures include porches,
breezeways, patio roofs, and like structures, but not fences or swimming pools.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-66 LOT DEPTH.
   LOT DEPTH. The average of the maximum and minimum distances between the
front lot line and the rear lot line of the building site.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-67 LOT; DOUBLE FRONTAGE.
   LOT; DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot which extends from street to street.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-68 LOT; INTERIOR.
   LOT; INTERIOR. A lot which is not a corner lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-69 LOT; KEY.
   LOT; KEY. The first interior lot to the rear of a reversed corner lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-70 LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE. Any boundary line of a lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-71 LOT LINE; FRONT.
   LOT LINE; FRONT.
      (1)   For an interior lot, the line separating the lot from the street or
place on which it abuts; and
      (2)   For a corner lot, the line separating the lot from the street on
which the majority of the lots in the block front.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-72 LOT LINE; REAR.
   LOT LINE; REAR. The lot line directly opposite most distant from the front
lot line. In the case of an irregularly shaped lot, it is the lot line, at
least ten feet long, which is parallel to, or most nearly so, and most distant
from the front lot line.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-73 LOT LINE; SIDE.
   LOT LINE; SIDE. Any lot line which is neither a front or rear lot line.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-74 LOT OF RECORD.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose separate entity has been established by a plat
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-75 LOT; REVERSED CORNER.
   LOT; REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot the rear lot line of which abuts on the
side lot line of another lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-76 LOT WIDTH.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines measured at right angles
to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-77 MAIN BUILDING.
   MAIN BUILDING. A building on a lot which is occupied by the primary use.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-78 MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. parts 3280 et
seq., promulgated by the United States Department of Health and Urban
Development; or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557 bearing the
seal of the Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-79 MASTER DEED.
   MASTER DEED. A deed establishing a condominium property regime.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-80 MOBILE HOME.
   MOBILE HOME. 
      (1)   A movable or portable dwelling which:
         (a)   Is not less than eight feet in width;
         (b)   Is not less than 40 feet in length;
         (c)   Is so constructed as to be towable on its own chassis and to
function without a permanent foundation;
         (d)   Can be connected to utilities; and
         (e)   Has kitchen and sanitary facilities.
      (2)   A MOBILE HOME may consist of one or more units which can be
telescoped when being towed and later expanded to create additional capacity,
or it may consist of two or more units which can be towed separately but are
designed to be joined into an integral unit. A dwelling so constructed shall be
deemed to be a MOBILE HOME whether or not mounted upon a temporary or a
permanent foundation. MOBILE HOMES must meet HUD standards.
(Ord. 4072, passed - -2012; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-81 MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land containing at least four and one-half
acres owned by one legal entity and licensed as required by Article 9 of this
chapter.
(Ord. 3992, passed - -2009; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-82 MOBILE HOME PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   MOBILE HOME PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A mobile home development, on a lot or
tract of land comprising not less than five acres, which is characterized by an
integrated and coordinated arrangement under which the mobile home dwelling
units are individually owned, and all of the common open space, including but
not necessarily limited to, parking areas and drives, are owned in common by
the owners of the mobile home dwelling units or by an incorporated or
cooperative association of which such owners are the members.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-83 MOBILE HOME PARK DRIVES.
   MOBILE HOME PARK DRIVES. Privately-owned lanes and roadways within a mobile
home park.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-84 MOBILE HOME SPACE.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designated for
the accommodation of one mobile home.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-85 MUNICIPAL USES.
   MUNICIPAL USES. A use of the land, or buildings, for municipal purposes,
such as water wells, parks, streets, alleys, and other public infrastructure
operated and maintained by the city.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-86 NURSING HOME.
   NURSING HOME. A home for aged, chronically ill, or incurable persons in
which three or more persons not of the immediate family are received, kept, and
provided with food, or shelter and care for compensation.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-87 OCCUPANCY.
   OCCUPANCY. The actual possession or use of a building, structure, lot, or
tract of land.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-88 OPEN SPACE.
   OPEN SPACE. Land areas which are not occupied by buildings, structures,
streets, open visitor parking spaces, or alleys, except approved landscaped
features and active recreational facilities that are part of a planned unit
development.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-89 OPEN SPACE; COMMON.
   OPEN SPACE; COMMON. Open space which is suitably located and improved for
common recreational purposes, active or passive, and is accessible to each lot
or dwelling within a planned unit development through a system of public or
private walkways.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-90 PHARMACY.
   PHARMACY. Business premises wherein is carried on primarily the business of
selling at retail of prescription and legal nonprescription drugs and
medicines, and includes the selling at retail, as an incident to such business,
of other medical supplies and equipment, personal care products and greeting
cards.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-90.1 PERMANENT COLOR TECHNOLOGY.
   PERMANENT COLOR TECHNOLOGY. The process by which the skin is marked or
colored by insertion of non-toxic dyes or pigments into or under the
subcutaneous portion of the skin upon the body of a live human begin so as to
form indelible marks for cosmetic purposes.
(Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-90.2 PERMANENT COSMETIC FACILITY.
   PERMANENT COSMETIC FACILITY. A facility where procedures are performed in
which permanent color technology is applied or pigment is applied with a
needle, electronic machine, or other means to produce a permanent mark visible
through the skin. Procedures include, but are not limited to the application of
eyeliner, eyeshadow, lip, eyebrow, or cheek color for the purpose of enhanced
aesthetic; scar concealment; and/or re-pigmentation of areas involving
reconstructive surgery or trauma. A PERMANENT COSMETIC FACILITY must obtain
appropriate licensure through the Nebraska Department of Health and Human
Services for body art facilities.
(Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-91 PERSON.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust,
or other legal entity, or any combination thereof.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-92 PROPERTY.
   PROPERTY. Land, leasehold interests in land, any building, all improvements
and structures thereon, and all easements, rights, and appurtenances belonging
thereto or to any of such elements alone.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-93 PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER.
   PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER. Any business or commercial development on a lot or
tract of land which contains not less than five acres and is characterized by
an integrated or coordinated arrangement of stores, shops, offices, buildings,
and facilities.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-94 RECREATION AREAS.
   RECREATION AREAS. The common open space which is usable for recreational
purposes, whether or not developed with active facilities, such as swimming
pools, tennis courts, recreational buildings, a clubhouse, or similar
facilities located within a planned unit development.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-95 RECYCLING CENTER.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A building in which aluminum and tin cans, glass and
plastic containers, and newspapers and paper products, or any of these, are
received, stored, and compacted for subsequent transportation to a processing
facility.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-96 REVERSED FRONTAGE.
   REVERSED FRONTAGE. The situation in which the rear lot line of a corner lot
abuts the side lot line of the adjacent interior lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-97 ROOMING HOUSE.
   See BOARDING HOUSE. 
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-98 SATELLITE EARTH STATION; HEIGHT.
   SATELLITE EARTH STATION; HEIGHT. The height of the dish measured vertically
from the highest point of the dish, when positioned for operation, to the
bottom of the base which supports the dish.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-99 SCRAP METAL PROCESSING FACILITY.
   SCRAP METAL PROCESSING FACILITY. An establishment having facilities for
processing iron, steel, or nonferrous scrap and whose principal product is
scrap iron and steel or nonferrous scrap-for sale for remelting purposes.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-100 SERVICE BUILDING.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A building or buildings located in a mobile home park or
trailer park which provide laundry and drying, toilet, or bathing facilities to
occupants of the park.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-101 SETBACK LINE.
   SETBACK LINE. A line, as shown on a recorded plat or otherwise established
by the City Council, beyond which no part of a main exterior wall of a building
or structure may project.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-102 SETBACK LINE; FRONT.
   SETBACK LINE; FRONT. The setback line at the front of the lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-103 SETBACK LINE; REAR.
   SETBACK LINE; REAR. The setback line at the rear of the lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-104 SETBACK LINE; SIDE.
   SETBACK LINE; SIDE. The setback line at either side of the lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-104.1 SIGHT TRIANGLE.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. An area at a street intersection in which no buildings shall
be erected or placed and no trees, bushes, or shrubs shall be planted in a
manner which impedes vision between a height of two and one-half feet and ten
feet above the grades of the bottom of the curb of the intersecting streets,
measured from the point of intersection of the centerline of the streets, 50
feet in each direction along the centerline of the streets. At the intersection
of major arterial streets, the 50-foot distance shall be increased to 100 feet
for each leg of the intersection.
(Ord. 3931, passed - -2007; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-105 SIGN.
   SIGN. Any device containing elements or symbols, organized or related, which
is designed to inform or to attract the attention of persons not on the
premises on which the SIGN is located; provided, however, that mailbox numbers
or names, government flags or insignia, legal notices, governmental
identification, information, or direction signs, shall not be included within
this definition.
(Ord. 3931, passed - -2007; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-106 SIGN; AREA OF.
   SIGN; AREA OF. The entire area within any type of perimeter or border which
may enclose the outer limits of any writing, representation, emblem, figure, or
character. The AREA OF A SIGN having no such perimeter or border shall be
computed by enclosing the entire area with parallelograms, squares, rectangles,
triangles, or circles of the smallest size sufficient to cover the entire AREA
OF THE SIGN and computing the area of these parallelograms, squares,
rectangles, triangles, or circles. The area computed shall be the maximum
portion or portions which may be viewed from any one direction.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-107 SIGN STRUCTURE.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The supports, uprights, bracing, guy rods, cables, and frame
work of a sign or outdoor display.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-108 SIGN; ACCESSORY.
   SIGN; ACCESSORY. A sign which directs attention to a business, product,
activity, or service conducted, sold, or offered for sale on the lot or tract
of land where the sign is located.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-109 SIGN; ATTACHED.
   SIGN; ATTACHED. A sign mounted flat against a wall or side of a building or
structure.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-110 SIGN; DETACHED.
   SIGN; DETACHED. A freestanding sign, and includes such signs whether
standing upon the ground or upon a building or structure, and whether
permanently fixed or movable, but does not include mobile signs.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-111 SIGN; MOBILE.
   SIGN; MOBILE. A movable or portable sign that is so constructed as to be
towable on its own chassis and to function without a permanent base or support.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-112 SIGN; EXTENDING.
   SIGN; EXTENDING. A sign mounted perpendicularly to the wall of a building.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-113 SIGN; POLITICAL.
   SIGN; POLITICAL. A sign, advertising structure, or display which
communicates any message or idea identifying, supporting, opposing, promoting,
conveying a position upon, or relating to any candidate for public office or
proposition, amendment, or issue connected with any local, special, state, or
national election. The term does not include political buttons, vehicle bumper
stickers, signs on garments or hats, or political campaign memorabilia carried
on the person.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-113.1 SIGN; TEMPORARY DETACHED.
   SIGN; TEMPORARY DETACHED. A detached sign which meets one or more of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Relates a message that changes frequently or becomes outdated;
      (2)   Made of materials of relatively low durability;
      (3)   Intended to be removed or replaced within a period of six months or
less; or
      (4)   Is portable.
(Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-114 SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION.
   SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION. A building in which solid waste is deposited
and sorted for recycling or disposal, and from which it is transported within
ten days after initial deposit, to a recycling center or to a landfill site
licensed by the state. The term SOLID WASTE means solid waste as defined in
Chapter 19 of this code of ordinances, however, that anything which is a
hazardous waste shall not be considered a SOLID WASTE which is allowed to be
deposited and sorted in a SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION. The term HAZARDOUS
WASTE means hazardous waste as defined in Chapter 19 of this code of
ordinances. The term HAZARDOUS WASTE shall also include any substance which is
defined as a hazardous waste by the Rules and Regulations of the Nebraska
Department of Environmental Control, as such rules and regulations are or may
become effective from time to time.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-115 SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-116 SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breasts.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-117 STORE.
   STORE. To place or leave in a location for preservation or later use or
disposal.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-118 STORY.
   STORY. The part of a building, not including a basement:
      (1)   Between the surface of any floor and the surface of the next floor
above it; or
      (2)   If there is no floor above, then the space between any floor and
the ceiling next above it.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-119 STORY; HALF.
   STORY; HALF. A story directly under a gable, hip, or gambrel roof whose wall
plates on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than two feet above
the floor of that story.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-120 STREET.
   STREET. A public way, road, or highway, furnishing the principal means of
access to an abutting lot or tract of land.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-121 STREET; FRONT.
   STREET; FRONT. A street on which the majority of the lots in the block
front.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-122 STREET; SIDE.
   STREET; SIDE. A street which intersects a front street.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-123 STRUCTURE.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something constructed or erected on the ground. The term includes manufactured
homes, signs, billboards, and fences so constructed, erected, or attached.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-124 STRUCTURAL ALTERATION.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. A change in any supporting members, such as bearing
wall, column, beam, or girder of any structure.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-125 SUBDIVISION.
   SUBDIVISION. The dividing of any parcel of land into two or more parcels.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-125.1 TATTOOING.
   TATTOOING. The process by which the skin is marked or colored by insertion
of non-toxic dyes
or pigments into or under the subcutaneous portion of the skin upon the body of
a live human being so as to form indelible marks for decorative or figurative
purposes.
(Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-125.2 TATTOO/BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT.
   TATTOO/BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment where tattooing,
branding, and/or body piercing is engaged in and where the business of
tattooing, branding, and/or body piercing is conducted, or any part thereof.
This definition does not include practices that are considered medical
procedures, such as implants under the skin. Practices recognized as medical
procedures by the State Medical Board shall not be performed in a TATTOO/BODY
PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT. All TATTOO/BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS must obtain
appropriate licensure through the Nebraska Department of Health and Human
Services for body art facilities.
(Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-2-126 TEMPORARY.
   TEMPORARY. Less than 12 months.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-127 TOWNHOUSE.
   TOWNHOUSE. An arrangement of single-family dwelling units, joined by common
walls on not more than two sides, with the uppermost story being a portion of
the same dwelling located directly beneath at the grade of the first floor
area, and having exclusive individual ownership and occupancy rights of each
dwelling unit, including, but not limited to the land area directly beneath
such dwelling unit.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-128 TRAVEL TRAILER.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A portable vehicular structure built on a chassis which is
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling while traveling, the body of which
is not more than eight feet wide nor 32 feet long, and which usually contains
bath or toilet facilities, or both. The term includes a camper.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-129 TRAILER PARK.
   TRAILER PARK. A tract of land which is not a mobile home park but contains
individual parking lots for travel trailers. It may have temporary hookup
facilities for plumbing and electrical services.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-130 UNIT.
   UNIT. The element of a planned unit development which is not owned in common
with the owners of other elements in the development.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-131 USE; ACCESSORY.
   USE; ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to and serving the principal use or
structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-132 USE; CONDITIONAL.
   USE; CONDITIONAL. A use classified as conditional may be appropriate or
desirable in a specified zone, but requires special approval because if not
carefully located or designed, it may create special problems, such as
excessive bulk, height, or abnormal traffic conditions.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-133 USE; NONCONFORMING.
   USE; NONCONFORMING. Use of land, buildings, or structures legally existing
at the effective date of this chapter which does not comply with all
regulations of this chapter or any amendments hereto governing the zoning
district in which such use is located.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-134 USE; PERMITTED.
   USE; PERMITTED. A public or private use which of itself conforms with the
purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations, and performance standards of
particular zoning district.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-135 USE; PRINCIPAL.
   USE; PRINCIPAL. The primary use of land or buildings as distinguished from
accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or conditional.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-136 USED CAR LOT.
   USED CAR LOT. A lot or tract of land where second-hand automobiles, intact
and ready for operation, are kept and offered for sale.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-137 VARIANCE.
   VARIANCE. An authorization granted by the Board of Adjustment with respect
to a lot, tract of land, building, or structure so as to permit the use of a
lot or tract of land, or the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, repair,
or use of a building or structure, which is otherwise prohibited by this
chapter, because of peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties, or an
exceptional and undue hardship of a type recognized by Neb. RS 19-910, as
amended, as grounds for the granting of a variance.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-138 YARD.
   YARD. An open space, other than a court, on a lot or tract of land generally
unobstructed, except as permitted in this chapter from the ground upward.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-139 YARD; FRONT.
   YARD; FRONT. A yard extending the full width of a lot or tract of land
between the front wall of the main building and the front lot line.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-140 YARD; REAR.
   YARD; REAR. A yard extending the full width of a lot, or tract of land,
between the rear of the main building and the rear lot line. The depth of a
required REAR YARD is measured from the nearest point of the rear lot line to
the nearest point of the main building.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-141 YARD; SIDE.
   YARD; SIDE. A yard between a side wall of the main building and the side lot
line extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-142 ZONING DISTRICT.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area delineated on a zoning map for which uniform use
regulations are specified.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4208, passed - -
2017)
§ 25-2-143 ZONING MAP.
   ZONING MAP. A map or maps directly enacted by the City Council as a part of
this chapter showing the boundaries of a zoning district or districts, a copy
or copies of which, certified to have been enacted as provided by law, is filed
in the office of the City Clerk as a direct record of the city, and a copy of
which is attached to a copy of the text of this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
ARTICLE 3: ZONING DISTRICT PROVISIONS
Section
   
25-3-1   Establishment of districts
   
25-3-2   R-1 Single-Family
   
25-3-3   R-1a Single-Family
   
25-3-4   R-1b Rural Residential Estate District
   
25-3-5   Repealed
   
25-3-6   Repealed
   
25-3-7   R-4 Heavy Density Multiple-Family
   
25-3-8   Repealed
   
25-3-9   R-6 Mobile Home
   
25-3-10   Repealed
   
25-3-11   O-P Office and Professional
   
25-3-12   PBC Planned Business Center
   
25-3-13   C-1 Central Business District
   
25-3-14   C-2 Neighborhood and Retail Commercial
   
25-3-15   C-3 Heavy Commercial
   
25-3-16   M-1 Light Manufacturing and Industrial
   
25-3-17   Reserved
   
25-3-18   M-2 Heavy Manufacturing and Industrial
   
25-3-19   A Agricultural
   
25-3-20   AR Agricultural Residential
   
25-3-21   Repealed
   
25-3-22   Repealed
   
25-3-23   General requirements
   
25-3-24   Repealed
   
25-3-25   Miscellaneous regulations
§ 25-3-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the purpose and intent of this chapter, the city and
its land outside the city limits over which the city exercises zoning
jurisdiction is hereby divided into the following zoning district
classifications:
   (A)   R-1 Single-Family;
   (B)   R-1a Single-Family;
   (C)   R-1b Rural Residential Estate District;
   (D)   R-4 Heavy Density Multiple-Family;
   (E)   R-6 Mobile Home;
   (F)   O-P Office and Professional;
   (G)   PBC Planned Business Center;
   (H)   C-1 Central Business District;
   (I)   C-2 Neighborhood Commercial;
   (J)   C-3 Heavy Commercial;
   (K)   M-1 Light Manufacturing and Industrial;
   (L)   M-2 Heavy Manufacturing and Industrial;
   (M)   A Agricultural;
   (N)   AR Agricultural Residential;
   (O)   F Floodplain; and
   (P)   GG-O Gateway Green Overlay.
§ 25-3-2 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the R-1 Single-Family District is to:
      (1)   Provide for low density residential areas where the predominant
uses are single- family detached houses; and
      (2)   Protect these areas from incompatible uses.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Church;
      (2)   Colleges;
      (3)   Community center;
      (4)   Family child care home;
      (5)   Fire station;
      (6)   Home occupations in accordance with Article 8 of this chapter;
      (7)   Municipal uses;
      (8)   Parks (public) including campgrounds;
      (9)   Public utility lines and substations;
      (10)   Rooming/boarding house with no more than two guests;
      (11)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (12)   School; and
      (13)   Water wells.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Cemeteries;
      (2)   Cluster housing;
      (3)   College dormitories;
      (4)   Condominium;
      (5)   Hospital;
      (6)   Library;
      (7)   Public utility facilities;
      (8)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located;
      (9)   Townhouses (single-family attached) dwelling units;
      (10)   Two-family dwellings;
      (11)   Utility plants;
      (12)   Water storage; and
      (13)   Livestock - Horses and other livestock used solely for non-
business recreation of occupier are permissible on lots comprising two acres or
more, in the quantity of one animal per each whole acre. Shelters for such
animals shall be situated not less than 50 feet from the property line and not
less than 50 feet from a residence on another lot or tract.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
 
                               Maxim  Setbacks                   Floor
          Minim  Minim  Maxim  um #                        Side  Area
          um Lot um Lot um Lot of                   Interi Stre  Minim Heig ht
Use       Size   Width  Covera Dwelli Fro nt Rea r  or     et    um    (Ft.)
          (Sq.   (Sq.   ge (%) ng     (Ft.)  (Ft. ) Side   (Ft.) (Sq.
          Ft.)   Ft.)          Units                (Ft.)        Ft.)

Accessory                                    3      2      15    900   1 story
building
Garage                                       3      2      15    900   18
Single-   12,000 100    40     1      A      20     5      15    1,200 35
family
A   If buildings have been built on lots which comprise more than 25% of the
front footage of any block, no building or structure may be built or
structurally altered which projects beyond the average front yard setback
already established.
   If the only building is one on an adjoining lot, the minimum front yard
setback shall be the greater of 25 feet or the setback of such building. If
buildings have been built on lots which comprise 25% or less of the front
footage of any block, the minimum front yard setback shall be 25 feet.
   No front yard setback shall exceed 50 feet.
 
      (2)   Accessory building; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located:
            1.   To the rear of the main building;
            2.   At least ten feet from the main building, or a distance of at
least five feet from the main dwelling building if the interior wall of the
accessory building adjacent to the main building complies with the
International One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code § 309.2, which has been adopted
by this code of ordinances, provided a detached accessory building constructed
prior to June 26, 1974, to the rear of and at a distance not less than five
feet from the main building shall not be deemed to be in violation of this
requirement;
            3.   At least three feet from the rear lot line if the lot line is
a common lot line abutting a lot, and the entry point from alley shall be no
closer than five feet from the property line; and
            4.   At least two feet from the interior side lot line; provided,
this requirement shall not apply where the interior side lot lines is over
which the main building extends. If the lot abuts a side street, an accessory
building must comply with the setback requirements applicable to the lot or
tract of land upon which the main building is located. Setbacks shall be
measured from the nearest eave of the building or buildings.
         (b)   An existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory building,
or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if it does
not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if entrance
to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back from the
side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
         (c)   A detached garage may be located in the side yard if the
following requirements are met:
            1.   The garage must meet the performance guidelines in the
residential zone;
            2.   The garage must observe the same front yard setbacks required
for the main structure;
            3.   Garages shall not be placed over easements; and
            4.   Lot coverage will meet requirements in the zoning district.
(Ord. 3985, passed - -2009; Ord. 4272, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 25-3-3 R-1a SINGLE-FAMILY.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the R-1a Single-Family District is to:
      (1)   Provide for medium and low density residential areas where the
predominant uses are single-family detached and single-family semi-attached
dwelling units; and
      (2)   Protect these areas from incompatible uses.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Church;
      (2)   Community center;
      (3)   Family child care home;
      (4)   Home occupations;
      (5)   Multi-family units;
      (6)   Municipal uses;
      (7)   Rooming/boarding house with no more than two guests;
      (8)   School;
      (9)   Single-family detached dwelling units;
      (10)   Golf courses;
      (11)   Parks;
      (12)   Fire stations;
      (13)   Public utilities and substations;
      (14)   Two-family dwellings; and
      (15)   Water wells.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Cluster housing;
      (2)   Condominium;
      (3)   Funeral home;
      (4)   Hair salons;
      (5)   Hospital;
      (6)   Library;
      (7)   Lodge or club;
      (8)   Nursery school or day care center;
      (9)   Permanent cosmetic facility;
      (10)   Public utility facilities;
      (11)   Retirement facilities;
      (12)   Rooming or boarding house for not more than six roomers or
boarders;
      (13)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located;
      (14)   Tourist information booths;
      (15)   Townhouses (single-family attached) dwelling units;
      (16)   Utility plants;
      (17)   Water storage; and
      (18)   Retirement facilities.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
    Minim  Minim         Maxim   Setbacks                       Floor
    um Lot um Lot Maxim  um # of                        Side    Area
Use Size   Width  um Lot Dwelli  Fro nt  Rea r  Interi  Stre et Minim   Heig ht
    (Sq.   (Sq.   Covera ng      (Ft.)   (Ft. ) or Side (Ft.)   um (Sq. (Ft.)
    Ft.)   Ft.)   ge (%) Units                  (Ft.)           Ft.)
                               Maxim  Setbacks                   Floor
          Minim  Minim  Maxim  um #                        Side  Area
          um Lot um Lot um Lot of                   Interi Stre  Minim Heig ht
Use       Size   Width  Covera Dwelli Fro nt Rea r  or     et    um    (Ft.)
          (Sq.   (Sq.   ge (%) ng     (Ft.)  (Ft. ) Side   (Ft.) (Sq.
          Ft.)   Ft.)          Units                (Ft.)        Ft.)

Accessory                                    3      2      C     900   1 story
building
Garage                                       3      2      C     900   18
          7,000  70     50
Multi-    (Minimum 2,500 sq.          25     25     5      12.5  400/  35
family    ft. per dwelling                                       D U
          unit)
Single-   5,500  55     60     1      A      B      5      C     700   35
family
Two-      7,000  70     50     2      25     15     5      12.5  600/  35
family                                                           D U
A   Minimum front yard setback to front facing garage shall be 20 feet; to
front of dwelling face shall be 12 feet; and to front of porch shall be seven
feet. If buildings have been built on lots which comprise more than 25% of the
front footage of any block, no building or structure may be built or
structurally altered which projects beyond the average front yard setback
already established.
   If the only building is one on an adjoining lot, the minimum front yard
setback shall be the greater of 20 feet or the setback of such building. If
buildings have been built on lots which comprise 25% or less of the front
footage of any block, the minimum front yard setback shall be 20 feet.
   No front yard setback shall exceed 50 feet.
B   Minimum rear yard setback to the dwelling shall be 15 feet. Minimum rear
yard setback to a deck shall be ten feet.
C   Minimum side yard setback from a side street shall be 12-1/2 feet. Minimum
side yard setback from a side street for a side-loading garage shall be 20
feet.
 
      (2)   Accessory building; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located:
            1.   To the rear of the main building;
            2.   At least ten feet from the main building, or a distance of at
least five feet from the main dwelling building if the interior wall of the
accessory building adjacent to the main building complies with the
International One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code § 309.2, which has been adopted
by this
code of ordinances, provided a detached accessory building constructed prior to
June 26, 1974, to the rear of and at a distance not less than five feet from
the main building shall not be deemed to be in violation of this requirement;
            3.   At least three feet from the rear lot line if the lot line is
a common lot line abutting a lot;
            4.   At least two feet from the interior side lot line; provided,
this requirement shall not apply where the interior side lot lines is over
which the main building extends. If the lot abuts a side street, an accessory
building must comply with the setback requirements applicable to the lot or
tract of land upon which the main building is located. Setbacks shall be
measured from the nearest eave of the building or buildings; and
            5.   Minimum rear yard setback to a garage with an alley entrance
shall be five feet.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
         (c)   A detached garage may be located in the side yard if the
following requirements are met:
            1.   The garage must meet the performance guidelines in the
residential zone;
            2.   The garage must observe the same front yard setbacks required
for the main structure;
            3.   Garages shall not be placed over easements; and
            4.   Lot coverage will meet requirements in the zoning district.
(Ord. 4192, passed - -2016)
§ 25-3-4 R-1b RURAL RESIDENTIAL ESTATE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of an R-1b Rural Residential Estate District is to:
      (1)   Provide for low density residential areas with larger lot sizes
where the predominant uses are single-family detached dwellings; and
      (2)   Protect these areas from incompatible uses.
   (B)   Principle permitted uses.
      (1)   Church;
      (2)   Community center;
      (3)   Crop production and orchards;
      (4)   Family child care home;
      (5)   Home occupations;
      (6)   Irrigation facilities that are incidental to agricultural use on
the premises;
      (7)   Municipal uses;
      (8)   Rooming/boarding house with no more than two guests;
      (9)   School; and
      (10)   Single-family detached dwelling units.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Hospital;
      (2)   Library;
      (3)   Livestock horses and other livestock used solely for non-business
recreation of occupier are permissible in the quantity of one animal per lot
or, if a lot comprises one acre or more, one animal per each whole acre.
Shelters for such animals shall be situated not less than 50 feet from the
property line and not less than 50 feet from a residence on another lot or
tract;
      (4)   Nursery school or day care center;
      (5)   Public utility facilities;
      (6)   Rooming/boarding house with no more than six guests;
      (7)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located;
      (8)   Tourist information booth;
      (9)   Utility plants; and
      (10)   Water storage.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
 
                               Maxim  Setbacks                   Floor
          Minim  Minim  Maxim  um #                        Side  Area
          um Lot um Lot um Lot of                   Interi Stre  Minim Heig ht
Use       Size   Width  Covera Dwelli Fro nt Rea r  or     et    um    (Ft.)
          (Sq.   (Sq.   ge (%) ng     (Ft.)  (Ft. ) Side   (Ft.) (Sq.
          Ft.)   Ft.)          Units                (Ft.)        Ft.)

Accessory                                    3      2      15    900   1 story
building
Garage                                       3      2      15    900   25
Single-   3      200    30     1      50     50     20     15    900   35
family    acres
 
      (2)   Accessory building; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located:
            1.   To the rear of the main building;
            2.   At least ten feet from the main building, or a distance of at
least five feet from the main dwelling building if the interior wall of the
accessory building adjacent to the main building complies with the
International One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code § 309.2, which has been adopted
by this code of ordinances, provided a detached accessory building constructed
prior to June 26, 1974, to the rear of and at a distance not less than five
feet from the main building shall not be deemed to be in violation of this
requirement;
            3.   At least three feet from the rear lot line if the lot line is
a common lot line abutting a lot;
            4.   At least two feet from the interior side lot line; provided,
this requirement shall not apply where the interior side lot lines is over
which the main building extends. If the lot abuts a side street, an accessory
building must comply with the setback requirements applicable to the lot or
tract of land upon which the main building is located. Setbacks shall be
measured from the nearest eave of the building or buildings; and
            5.   Minimum rear yard setback to a garage with an alley entrance
shall be five feet.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
         (c)   A detached garage may be located in the side yard if the
following requirements are met:
            1.   The garage must meet the performance guidelines in the
residential zone;
            2.   The garage must observe the same front yard setbacks required
for the main structure;
            3.   Garages shall not be placed over easements; and
            4.   Lot coverage will meet requirements in the zoning district.
(Ord. 4137, passed - -2014)
§ 25-3-5 REPEALED.
§ 25-3-6 REPEALED.
§ 25-3-7 R-4 HEAVY DENSITY MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of an R-4 Heavy Density Multiple-Family District is
to:
      (1)   Provide for a variety of carefully designed housing types at high
densities;
      (2)   Provide for a mix of other uses consistent with the needs of the
residential occupants; and
      (3)   Encourage the development of affordable housing for young families,
low and moderate income families, and the elderly.
   (B)   Principle permitted uses.
      (1)   Church;
      (2)   Community center;
      (3)   Educational/charitable institutions;
       (4)   Family child care home;
      (5)   Fraternities, sororities, and dormitories;
      (6)   Home occupations;
      (7)   Multi-family dwelling units;
      (8)   Municipal uses;
      (9)   Rooming/boarding house with no more than two guests;
      (10)   School;
      (11)   Single-family detached dwelling units; and
      (12)   Two-family dwelling.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Cluster housing, condominiums, and townhouses, provided all planned
unit development standards are met pursuant to Article 7 of this chapter, and
the density does not exceed the density level permitted in the zoning district
in which the planned unit development is proposed to be located;
      (2)   Crop production and orchards;
      (3)   Hospital;
      (4)   Irrigation facilities that are incidental to agricultural use of
the premises;
      (5)   Library;
      (6)   Lodge/club;
      (7)   Nursery school or day care center;
      (8)   Public utility facilities;
      (9)   Rooming or boarding house for not more than six roomers or
boarders;
      (10)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located;
      (11)   Tourist information booth;
      (12)   Utility plants; and
      (13)   Water storage.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
          Minimum Minimum                   Setbacks                    Floor
          Lot     Lot     Maximum  Maximum                       Side   Area
Use       Size    Width   Lot      # of     Front Rear  Interior Street Minimum Height
          (Sq.    (Sq.    Coverage Dwelling (Ft.) (Ft.) Side     (Ft.)  (Sq.    (Ft.)
          Ft.)    Ft.)    (%)      Units                (Ft.)           Ft.)

Accessory                                               2        12.5   900
building
Building
garage                                                  3        2      12.5    18
(multi-
family)
Garage
(single-                                                2        12.5   900     18
family)
HD multi- 7,000   70      A                 25    25    B        A              70
family
LD multi- 7,000   70      50                25    25    12.5     400/DU         35
family
Single-   7,000   70      50       1        25    25    12.5                    35
family
Two-      7,000   70      50       2        25    25    12.5     600/DU         35
family
A   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit and maximum lot coverage:
Minimum Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)                Maximum Lot Coverage
500                                         70%
450                                         76%
400                                         60%
350                                         55%
300                                         45%
B   The minimum side yard setback is five feet for buildings and structures not more
than three stories high. For buildings more than three stories high, the required
minimum side yard setback is increased one foot for each additional story over three.
Provided, in the case of a residential building extending across a common interior lot
line of abutting lots which are in common ownership, the above minimum side yard
setback requirements do not apply to such lot line, but there shall be a minimum side
yard setback of five feet from the lot line on the opposite side of each of the lots
in districts R-1, R-1a, and R-1b; and ten feet from the lot line on the opposite side
of each of the lots in districts R-4 and O-P.
C   If buildings have been built on lots which comprise more than 25% of the front
footage of any block, no building or structure may be built or structurally altered
which projects beyond the average front yard setback already established.
If the only building is one on an adjoining lot, the minimum front yard setback shall
be the greater of 20 feet or the setback of such building. If buildings have been
built on lots which comprise 25% or less of the front footage of any block, the
minimum front yard setback shall be 20 feet.
No front yard setback shall exceed 50 feet.
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located:
            1.   To the rear of the main building;
            2.   At least ten feet from the main building, or a distance of at
least five feet from the main dwelling building if the interior wall of the
accessory building adjacent to the main building complies with the
International One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code § 309.2, which has been adopted
by this code of ordinances, provided a detached accessory building constructed
prior to June 26, 1974, to the rear of and at a distance not less than five
feet from the main building shall not be deemed to be in violation of this
requirement;
            3.   At least three feet from the rear lot line if the lot line is
a common lot line abutting a lot;
            4.   At least two feet from the interior side lot line; provided,
this requirement shall not apply where the interior side lot lines is over
which the main building extends. If the lot abuts a side street, an accessory
building must comply with the setback requirements applicable to the lot or
tract of land upon which the main building is located. Setbacks shall be
measured from the nearest eave of the building or buildings; and
            5.   Minimum rear yard setback to a garage with an alley entrance
shall be five feet.
         (b)   The setback from a side street line must be at least five feet.
Provided, further, a garage with access from a side street must be set back
from the right-of-way line of such street a distance of at least 20 feet. The
setbacks herein referred to shall be measured from the nearest wall of the
garage, except the setback from the side street line, which shall be measured
from the nearest eave.
(Ord. 3985, passed - -2009; Ord. 4137, passed - -2014)
§ 25-3-8 REPEALED.
§ 25-3-9 R-6 MOBILE HOME.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of an R-6 Mobile Home District is to:
      (1)   Allow mobile homes outside a mobile home park;
      (2)   Allow the mix of single-family detached dwellings;
      (3)   Require greater lot sizes than mobile home parks; and
      (4)   Allow a mix of uses other than residential uses which are
compatible with the district.
   (B)   Principle permitted uses.
      (1)   Church;
      (2)   Community center;
      (3)   Family child care home;
      (4)   Home occupation;
      (5)   Mobile homes;
      (6)   Municipal uses;
      (7)   Rooming/boarding house (not more than two guests);
      (8)   School; and
      (9)   Single-family detached dwelling.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Cluster housing, condominiums, and townhouses, provided all planned
unit development standards are met pursuant to Article 7 of this chapter and
the density does not exceed the density level permitted in the zoning district
in which the planned unit development is proposed to be located;
      (2)   Mobile home parks with the following performance standards;
      (3)   Nursery school or day care center; and
      (4)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
          Minimum Minimum                   Setbacks                    Floor
          Lot     Lot     Maximum  Maximum                       Side   Area
Use       Size    Width   Lot      # of     Front Rear  Interior Street Minimum Height
          (Sq.    (Sq.    Coverage Dwelling (Ft.) (Ft.) Side     (Ft.)  (Sq.    (Ft.)
          Ft.)    Ft.)    (%)      Units                (Ft.)           Ft.)

Mobile    16,640  70      40       1        20    25    12       12.5   700     35
home
Single-   16,640  70      40       1        20    25    12       12.5           35
family
Accessory                                   3     2                             1
building                                                                        story
Garage                                            3     2        15     700     18
Mobile    4.5                      7 per                10
home      acres                    gross    15    20    between  12.5   320     35
parks *                            acre                 units
*   Mobile homes shall not be closer than 18 feet from any service or any other mobile
home park permanent building.
Mobile homes must meet HUD standards.
A   If buildings have been built on lots which comprise more than 25% of the front
footage of any block, no building or structure may be built or structurally altered
which projects beyond the average front yard setback already established.
If the only building is one on an adjoining lot, the minimum front yard setback shall
be the greater of 20 feet or the setback of such building. If buildings have been
built on lots which comprise 25% or less of the front footage of any block, the
minimum front yard setback shall be 20 feet.
No front yard setback shall exceed 50 feet.
B   Mobile homes shall set back a minimum of 20 feet from the property line of the
mobile home park. A front setback of mobile homes shall be a minimum of 15 feet from
the curb on interior drives, and the side setback shall be a minimum of ten feet
between mobile homes. No mobile home shall be situated closer than 18 feet to any
service or other mobile home park permanent building.
C   The density of a mobile home park shall not exceed seven dwelling units per gross
acre.
 
      (2)   Accessory building; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located:
            1.   To the rear of the main building;
            2.   At least ten feet from the main building, or a distance of at
least five feet from the main dwelling building if the interior wall of the
accessory building adjacent to the main building complies with the
International One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code §309.2, which has been adopted
by this code of ordinances, provided a detached accessory building constructed
prior to June 26, 1974, to the rear of and at a distance not less than five
feet from the main building shall not be deemed to be in violation of this
requirement;
            3.   At least three feet from the rear lot line if the lot line is
a common lot line abutting a lot;
            4.   At least two feet from the interior side lot line; provided,
this requirement shall not apply where the interior side lot lines is over
which the main building extends. If the lot abuts a side street, an accessory
building must comply with the setback requirements applicable to the lot or
tract of land upon which the main building is located. Setbacks shall be
measured from the nearest eave of the building or buildings; and
            5.   Minimum rear yard setback to a garage with an alley entrance
shall be five feet.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
         (c)   A detached garage may be located in the side yard if the
following requirements are met:
            1.   The garage must meet the performance guidelines in the
residential zone;
            2.   The garage must observe the same front yard setbacks required
for the main structure;
            3.   Garages shall not be placed over easements; and
            4.   Lot coverage will meet requirements in the zoning district.
(Ord. 4072, passed - -2012)
§ 25-3-10 REPEALED.
§ 25-3-11 O-P OFFICE AND PROFESSIONAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of an O-P Office and Professional District is to
allow for a mixture of professional office and some residential occupancies
with limited other compatible commercial uses.
   (B)   Principle permitted uses.
      (1)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services;
      (2)   Arts and crafts studio;
      (3)   Bank automated teller facilities; indoor;
      (4)   Bank and saving and loan;
      (5)   Barber/beauty shop;
      (6)   Church;
      (7)   Clinic;
      (8)   Communication facilities including communication tower, such tower
not to exceed 150 feet in height. No guy wires, outrigging, or other supporting
structures may extend beyond the foundation of the tower;
      (9)   Community center;
      (10)   Educational or charitable institutions and educational or
scientific research services;
      (11)   Florist;
      (12)   Gift shop;
      (13)   Home occupations;
      (14)   Hospital;
      (15)   Insurance agency/services;
      (16)   Laboratory, medical, dental, and optical;
      (17)   Library;
      (18)   Marriage and family counseling;
      (19)   Mortuary;
      (20)   Multi-family dwellings. Whenever a lot or tract of land is used in
whole or part for residential purposes, preliminary and final site plans of a
proposed development must be submitted to the Planning Commission for review
and approval;
      (21)   Municipal uses;
      (22)   Offices and professional services;
      (23)   Permanent cosmetic facility;
      (24)   Pharmacy;
      (25)   Professional membership organizations;
      (26)   Professional schools;
      (27)   Rooming/boarding house;
      (28)   School;
      (29)   Single-family dwelling. Whenever a lot or tract of land is used in
whole or part for residential purposes, preliminary and final site plans of a
proposed development must be submitted to the Planning Commission for review
and approval;
      (30)   Tourist information booth; and
      (31)   Two-family dwelling.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Ambulance service;
      (2)   Animal clinic (indoor only): Residential use is permitted above the
ground floor and within the confines of a business building. The entire
business must be conducted within a building. Preliminary and final site plans
must be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and approval;
      (3)   Bank automated teller facilities, outdoor (see division (C)(15)
below);
      (4)   Book and stationery store;
      (5)   Day care center (child care center) or preschool (see division (C)
(15) below);
      (6)   Delicatessen;
      (7)   Health food store;
      (8)   Restaurant;
      (9)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located;
      (10)   Temporary medical housing;
      (11)   Public utility facilities;
      (12)   Lodge or club;
      (13)   Utility plants;
      (14)   Water storage; and
      (15)   Residential use is permitted only within the confines of a
building in which a permitted use is conducted. Preliminary and final site
plans must be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and approval.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
    Minimum Minimum                   Setbacks                    Floor
    Lot     Lot     Maximum  Maximum                       Side   Area
Use Size    Width   Lot      # of     Front Rear  Interior Street Minimum Height
    (Sq.    (Sq.    Coverage Dwelling (Ft.) (Ft.) Side     (Ft.)  (Sq.    (Ft.)
    Ft.)    Ft.)    (%)      Units                (Ft.)           Ft.)

   7,000   -       C        C        25 or A     B        12.5   C       70
                                      D
A   If a lot abuts on a public alley, the minimum rear yard setback is five
feet; otherwise, the minimum rear yard setback is 15 feet.
B   The minimum side yard setback is five feet for buildings and structures not
more than three stories high. For buildings more than three stories high, the
required minimum side yard setback is increased one foot for each additional
story over three. Provided, in the case of a residential building extending
across a common interior lot line of abutting lots which are in common
ownership, the above minimum side yard setback requirements do not apply to such
lot line, but there shall be a minimum side yard setback of five feet from the
lot line on the opposite side of each of the lots in districts R-1, R-1a, and R-
1b; and ten feet from the lot line on the opposite side of each of the lots in
districts R-4 and O-P.
C   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit and the maximum lot coverage is as
follows.
Minimum Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)          Maximum Lot Coverage
500                                   70%
450                                   76%
400                                   60%
350                                   55%
300                                   45%
D   The required minimum R District setback applies if the frontage between two
streets separates an R District and either a C District, M District, or O-
P District. If all frontage between two streets is in either a C or M District,
no front setback is required.
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
(Ord. 4072, passed - -2012; Ord. 4192, passed - -2016)
§ 25-3-12 PBC PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of a Planned Business Center District is to:
      (1)   Provide an area for a unified commercial center which provides
goods and services to a regional trading area;
      (2)   Provide for joint or grouped parking facilities serving several
retail stores; and
      (3)   Coordinate a vehicular and pedestrian traffic circulation system
and carefully design access that is compatible with surrounding uses.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services;
      (2)   Ambulance service;
      (3)   Amusement centers; indoor only;
      (4)   Animal clinic; indoor only;
      (5)   Arts and crafts studio;
      (6)   Automated or coin-operated car wash;
      (7)   Bakery or bakery goods store;
      (8)   Bank automated teller facilities; outdoor;
      (9)   Bank automated teller facilities; indoor;
      (10)   Bank and savings and loan;
      (11)   Barber and beauty shop;
      (12)   Book and stationery store;
      (13)   Business college and trade school;
      (14)   Church;
      (15)   Cleaning and laundry agency;
      (16)   Clinic;
      (17)   Communication facilities including communication tower, such tower
not to exceed 150 feet in height. No guy wires, outrigging, or other supporting
structures may extend beyond the foundation of the tower;
      (18)   Community center (public);
      (19)   Confectionery stores;
      (20)   Convenience stores without dispensing gasoline;
      (21)   Convenience stores with dispensing gasoline;
      (22)   Dance, music, or voice studio;
      (23)   Day care center (child care center) or preschool;
      (24)   Delicatessen;
      (25)   Drive-thru photo facility;
      (26)   Drive-thru (fast food) restaurant;
      (27)   Educational and scientific research service;
      (28)   Florist;
      (29)   Food store and delicatessen;
      (30)   Furniture/appliance store;
      (31)   Gift shop;
      (32)   Grocery store;
      (33)   Hardware store;
      (34)   Hospital;
      (35)   Insurance agency/services;
      (36)   Jewelry store;
      (37)   Laboratory, medical, dental, and optical;
      (38)   Laundromat; self-service;
      (39)   Library;
      (40)   Marriage and family counseling;
      (41)   Mortuary;
      (42)   Multi-family dwelling units. Living quarters for watchperson of
commercial or industrial use property, or for hotels and motels, are the only
permitted residential uses in this zone;
      (43)   Municipal uses;
      (44)   Offices: professional and service;
      (45)   Permanent cosmetic facility;
      (46)   Pharmacy;
      (47)   Photographic studio;
      (48)   Printing and blueprinting;
      (49)   Professional membership organizations;
      (50)   Professional schools;
      (51)   Reducing/suntanning;
      (52)   Restaurant, bar. and tavern;
      (53)   Retail stores and services;
      (54)   Service station; full service;
      (55)   Service station; mixed use;
      (56)   Single-family dwelling units. Living quarters for watchperson of
commercial or industrial use property, or for hotels and motels, are the only
permitted residential uses in this zone;
      (57)   Shoe store;
      (58)   Theater; indoor;
      (59)   Tire shop and recapping; and
      (60)   Utility business offices.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Adult bookstore: no such use shall be located within 300 linear
feet of any school, public or private, place of worship, public park, day care
center, child nursery, library, or residential district. No such use shall be
located within 1,000 linear feet of any existing adult bookstore. No such use
may be allowed in combination with the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages;
      (2)   Lodge or club;
      (3)   Public utility facilities;
      (4)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located;
      (5)   Temporary building may be permitted if such building complies with
all height and area requirements, and the use complies, except for the fact
that the building is a temporary one;
      (6)   Utility plants; and
      (7)   Water storage.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk, regulations.
 
          Minimum  Minimum Minimum          Maximum  Setbacks                      Structure
Use       District Lot     Lot     Maximum  Dwelling                               Regulations
          Size     Size    Width   Coverage Units    Front    Rear Interior Side   Maximum
                                                                   Side     Street Height
Permitted                  20 feet No       4(c)     25 feet  4(h) 4(h)     25     4(b)
Use       8 acres  No              maximum           or 4(h)                feet
Accessory          minimum                           Not      4(h) 4(h)     25     4(b)
Building                                             permited               feet
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Accessory building; attached. A building which if detached from the
main building would constitute an accessory building may be connected to the
main building by a breezeway or similar structure, and in such event, shall
meet all requirements for the main building.
      (4)   Design requirements.
         (a)   Buffer strips; R Districts. A buffer strip, at least 25 feet in
width, sodded and planted with shrubs or other greenery, and with a permanent
screen at least ten feet high, must be established and maintained adjacent to
the boundary line of any abutting lot or tract of land located in whole or part
in an R District.
         (b)   Buildings and structures; height. No building or structure,
except for an elevator, penthouse water tower, or decorative building
projection, may exceed three stories or 45 feet in height, whichever is lower.
         (c)   Dwellings. No building in a center may be used as dwelling
except for a paid custodian, caretaker, or watchperson living in the center.
         (d)   General design. A center must be laid out and developed as a
unit in accordance with an integrated or coordinated overall design that
complies with the provisions of this article. Buildings, structures, parking
areas, walks, lighting, and appurtenant facilities must be located and arranged
with due regard for surrounding land uses. Any part of a center not used for
buildings, structures, accessways, parking and loading, or unloading areas must
be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubs, or pedestrian walks.
         (e)   Loading facilities. A center must provide adequate areas for
motor vehicles to load or unload merchandise, materials, or equipment without
interfering with the use of any public street or alley.
         (f)   Location. A center may be located only in a PBC District
established in accordance with this article, and only on a lot or tract of land
abutting one or more arterial streets.
         (g)   Off-street parking. Adequate off-street parking must be provided
in a center to accommodate all motor vehicles of employees, customers, and
other persons reasonably expected to use the center, and for vehicles used in
the conduct of businesses in the center. At least one parking space must be
provided for each 200 square feet of floor area used for selling or offices.
Areas designed primarily for loading and unloading or standing space are not
parking spaces within the meaning of this section. Floor area designed for
selling or office may not include areas used for storage, utilities or
restrooms. Parking spaces and areas must meet the requirements of
Article 5 of this chapter.
         (h)   Setbacks. No building or structure may be constructed or
maintained in a center within 100 feet of the boundary line of an abutting lot
or tract of land located in an R District nor within 25 feet of the right-of-
way of a public street or road. No roadway or parking area in a center may be
constructed or maintained within 25 feet of the right-of-way line.
(Ord. 4072, passed - -2012; Ord. 4137, passed - -2014; Ord. 4192, passed - -
2016; Ord. 4302, passed 5-1-2023)
§ 25-3-13 C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of a C-1 Central Business District is a zone for
the Central Business District permitting all types of business enterprises
except manufacturing and other industries which are incompatible with a
business district comprised primarily of retail sales and service businesses.
   (B)   Principle permitted uses.
      (1)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services;
      (2)   Ambulance service;
      (3)   Amusement centers; indoor only;
      (4)   Animal clinic; indoor only;
      (5)   Arts and crafts studio;
      (6)   Auto storage and rental;
      (7)   Bakery or bakery goods store. The maximum gross floor area of a
building permitted for this use is 6,400 square feet. Incidental, non-nuisance-
producing processing, packaging, or fabricating is permitted if conducted
entirely within a building;
      (8)   Bank automated teller facilities; outdoor;
      (9)   Bank automated teller facilities; indoor;
      (10)   Bank and savings and loan;
      (11)   Barber and beauty shop;
      (12)   Book and stationery store;
      (13)   Brew pub;
      (14)   Bus depot;
      (15)   Business college and trade school;
      (16)   Automated or coin-operated car wash;
      (17)   Church;
      (18)   Cleaning and laundry agency;
      (19)   Clinic;
      (20)   Communication facilities including communication tower, such tower
not to exceed 150 feet in height. No guy wires, outrigging, or other supporting
structures may extend beyond the foundation of the tower;
      (21)   Community center (public);
      (22)   Condominium with three or fewer apartments;
      (23)   Confectionery stores;
      (24)   Convenience stores without dispensing gasoline;
      (25)   Convenience stores with dispensing gasoline;
      (26)   Convenience warehouse storage facilities;
      (27)   Day care center (child care center) or preschool;
      (28)   Delicatessen;
      (29)   Drive-thru photo facility;
      (30)   Dwelling unit; two unit and multiple family within the confines of
a building in which a business enterprise, retail sales, or service business
may be conducted;
      (31)   Educational and charitable institutions;
      (32)   Educational and scientific research service;
      (33)   Florist;
      (34)   Food store and delicatessen;
      (35)   Furniture refinishing. The entire business must be conducted
within a building;
      (36)   Furniture/appliance store;
      (37)   Gift shop;
      (38)   Grocery store;
      (39)   Hardware store;
      (40)   Hospital;
      (41)   Hotel;
      (42)   Insurance agency/services;
      (43)   Jewelry store;
      (44)   Laboratory, medical, dental, and optical;
      (45)   Laundromat; self-service;
      (46)   Library;
      (47)   Lodge or club;
      (48)   Marriage and family counseling;
      (49)   Mortuary;
      (50)   Motel;
      (51)   Municipal uses;
      (52)   Nursery for children;
      (53)   Nursery for flowers/plants;
      (54)   Offices; professional and service;
      (55)   Parking lot, garage, or facility;
      (56)   Pharmacy;
      (57)   Photographic studio;
      (58)   Printing and blueprinting;
      (59)   Professional membership organizations;
      (60)   Professional schools;
      (61)   Railroad station;
      (62)   Reducing/suntanning;
      (63)   Restaurant, bar, and tavern;
      (64)   Retail stores and services;
      (65)   Rooming/boarding house. Residential use is permitted above the
ground floor and within the confines of a business building;
      (66)   School;
      (67)   Service station; full service;
      (68)   Service station; mixed use;
      (69)   Service station; self-service dispensing of gas only;
      (70)   Shoe store;
      (71)   Tattoo/body piercing establishment;
      (72)   Temporary medical housing;
      (73)   Theater; indoor;
      (74)   Tire shop and recapping;
      (75)   Tourist information booth;
      (76)   Upholstery shops, provided till work is completed inside the
building;
      (77)   Utility business offices;
      (78)   Warehousing facilities. Warehouse or storage facilities are
permitted as the primary use on a lot or property only if a special permit is
granted. A lot or property will not be eligible for consideration of the
issuance of a special permit unless the proposed facility will be located on a
lot immediately adjoining (or directly across an alley from) a property with an
allowed C-1 District use; the proposed facility is necessary to and will be
used as an accessory to the allowed use on the adjoining lot; and both lots are
under the same ownership; and
      (79)   Wholesale stores and distributors. The maximum gross floor area of
a building permitted for this use is 6,410 square feet. Incidental, non-
nuisance-producing processing, packaging, or fabricating is permitted if
conducted entirely within a building.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Drive-thru (fast food) restaurant;
      (2)   Micro brewery;
      (3)   Equipment rental and sales yard;
      (4)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located;
      (5)   Temporary building may be permitted if such building complies with
all height and area requirements, and the use complies, except for the fact
that the building is a temporary one; and
      (6)   Micro distillery.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
 
       Minim  Minim         Maxim  Setbacks                             Floor
       um Lot um Lot Maxim  um #                         Side    Area   Maxim
Use    Size   Width  um     of     Fro nt Rea r  Interi  Stre et (Sq.   um
       (Sq.   (Sq.   Covera Dwelli (Ft.)  (Ft. ) or Side (Ft.)   Ft.)   Height
       Ft.)   Ft.)   ge (%) ng                   (Ft.)                  (Ft.)
                            Units
       None   None   *             C      A      B       -       PRT FA 7
Garage                                           5       12.5
*   Minimum lot area/dwelling unit = no requirement
PRTFA = Parking ratio to floor area
A   No minimum rear yard setback is required except for a lot abutting the side
of a lot in either an R or O-P District, in which case the minimum rear yard
setback is 15 feet. If a public alley separates such lots, no rear yard is
required.
B   No minimum interior side yard setback is required except for a lot in a C
or M District whose side abuts the side of a lot in either an R or O-
P District, in which latter case, the minimum interior side yard setback is
five feet. If a public alley separates such lots, no side yard is required.
C   The required minimum R District setback applies if the frontage between two
streets separates an K District and a C District. If all frontage between two
streets is in a C District, no from setback is required.
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Accessory building; attached. A building which if detached from the
main building would constitute an accessory building, it has be connected to
the main building by a breezeway or similar structure, and in such event, it
shall meet all requirements for the main building.
(Ord 3965, passed - -2008; Ord. 3985, passed - -2009; Ord. 4152, passed - -
2015; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4198, passed - -2016; Ord. 4241, passed
12-17-2018)
§ 25-3-14 C-2 NEIGHBORHOOD AND RETAIL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of a C-2 Neighborhood and Retail Commercial
District is to provide a zone consisting of retail stores and service
establishments.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services;
      (2)   Ambulance service;
      (3)   Amusement centers; indoor only;
      (4)   Animal clinic; indoor only;
      (5)   Arts and crafts studio;
      (6)   Automated or coin-operated car wash;
      (7)   Bakery or bakery goods store;
      (8)   Bank automated teller facilities; outdoor;
      (9)   Bank automated teller facilities; indoor;
      (10)   Bank and savings and loan;
      (11)   Barber and beauty shop;
      (12)   Book and stationery store;
      (13)   Brew pub;
      (14)   Church;
      (15)   Cleaning and laundry agency;
      (16)   Clinic;
      (17)   Communication facilities including communication tower, such tower
not to exceed 150 feel in height. No guy wires, outrigging, or other supporting
structures may extend beyond the foundation of the tower;
      (18)   Community center (public);
      (19)   Confectionery stores;
      (20)   Convenience stores with dispensing gasoline;
      (21)   Convenience stores without dispensing gasoline;
      (22)   Convenience warehouse storage facilities;
      (23)   Dance, music, or voice studio;
      (24)   Day care center (child care center) or preschool;
      (25)   Delicatessen;
      (26)   Domestic violence shelter;
      (27)   Drive-thru;
      (28)   Educational and charitable institutions;
      (29)   Educational and scientific research service;
      (30)   Equipment rental and sales yard;
      (31)   Florist;
      (32)   Food store and delicatessen;
      (33)   Furniture refinishing (the entire business must be conducted
within a building);
      (34)   Furniture/appliance store;
      (35)   Gift shop;
      (36)   Gymnasium; private;
      (37)   Grocery store;
      (38)   Hardware store;
      (39)   Hospital;
      (40)   Hotels/motels;
      (41)   Insurance agency/services;
      (42)   Jewelry store;
      (43)   Laboratory, medical, dental, and optical;
      (44)   Laundromat; self-service;
      (45)   Library;
      (46)   Lodge or club;
      (47)   Marriage and family counseling;
      (48)   Municipal uses;
      (49)   Nursery for children;
      (50)   Offices; professional and service;
      (51)   Pharmacy;
      (52)   Photographic studio;
      (53)   Priming and blueprinting;
      (54)   Professional membership organizations;
      (55)   Professional schools;
      (56)   Reducing/suntanning;
      (57)   Restaurant, bar, and tavern;
      (58)   Retail stores and services;
      (59)   Rooming/boarding house. Residential use is permitted above the
ground floor and within the ground floor if to the back or side of a business
building;
      (60)   School;
      (61)   Service station; full service;
      (62)   Service station; mixed use;
      (63)   Shoe store;
      (64)   Tattoo/body piercing establishment;
      (65)   Temporary medical housing;
      (66)   Theater; indoor;
      (67)   Tourist information booth;
      (68)   Upholstery shop provided all work is completed within the
building;
      (69)   Utility business offices; and
      (70)   Warehousing and wholesaling.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Auto sales and service;
      (2)   Billboards;
      (3)   Micro brewery;
      (4)   Emergency shelter;
      (5)   Hardware stores selling lumber;
      (6)   Multi-family dwellings. Residential use is permitted above the
ground floor and within the ground floor to the back or side of a business
building;
      (7)   Single-family dwelling. Residential use is permitted above the
ground floor and within the ground floor to the back or side of a business
building;
      (8)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone in which it is located;
      (9)   Temporary building may be permitted if such building complies with
all height and area requirements, and the use complies, except for the fact
that the building is a temporary one;
      (10)   Two-family dwelling. Residential use is permitted above the ground
floor and within the ground floor to the back or side of a business building;
      (11)   Any hotels or apartments higher than the maximum 45 feet will
require a special permit approved by the Planning Commission; and
      (12)   Micro distillery.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
 
       Minim  Minim         Maxim  Setbacks                             Floor
       um Lot um Lot Maxim  um #                         Side    Area   Maxim
Use    Size   Width  um     of     Fro nt Rea r  Interi  Stre et (Sq.   um
       (Sq.   (Sq.   Covera Dwelli (Ft.)  (Ft. ) or Side (Ft.)   Ft.)   Height
       Ft.)   Ft.)   ge (%) ng                   (Ft.)                  (Ft.)
                            Units
       None   *      *      C or   A      B      12.5    -       PRT FA 35
                            25
Garage                                           12.5            45
*   Minimum lot area/dwelling unit = 2,800 sq. ft.
   Hotels and apartments - except with special use permit
PRTFA = Parking ratio to floor area
A   No minimum rear yard setback is required except for a lot abutting the side
of a lot in either an R or O-P District, in which case the minimum rear yard
setback is 15 feet. If a public alley separates such lots, no rear yard is
required.
B   No minimum interior side yard setback is required except for a lot whose
side abuts the side of a lot in either an R or O-P District, in which latter
case, the minimum interior side yard setback is five feet. If a public alley
separates such lots, no side yard is required.
C   The required minimum R District setback applies if the frontage between two
streets separates an R District and either a C District. If all frontage
between two streets is in a C District no front setback is required.
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Accessory building; attached. A building which if detached from the
main building would constitute an accessory building may be connected to the
main building by a breezeway or similar structure, and in such event shall meet
all requirements for the main building.
(Ord 3965, passed - -2008; Ord. 3985, passed - -2009; Ord. 4137, passed - -
2014; Ord. 4187, passed - -2016; Ord. 4198, passed - -2016; Ord. 4241, passed
12-17-2018)
§ 25-3-15 C-3 HEAVY COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of a C-3 Heavy Commercial District is a zone
designed primarily for warehousing, distribution centers, and minimum light
manufacturing and processing.
   (B)   Principle permitted uses.
      (1)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services;
      (2)   Ambulance service;
      (3)   Amusement centers; indoor only;
      (4)   Animal clinic; indoor only;
      (5)   Animal clinic; indoor/outdoor;
      (6)   Arts and crafts studio;
      (7)   Auction house;
      (8)   Auto sales and service;
      (9)   Auto storage and rentals. All processing, packaging, or fabricating
to be conducted wholly inside a building. Nuisance-producing processing,
packaging, or fabricating not permitted;
      (10)   Automated or coin-operated car wash;
      (11)   Bakery or bakery goods store;
      (12)   Bank automated teller facilities; outdoor;
      (13)   Bank automated teller facilities; indoor
      (14)   Bank and savings and loan;
      (15)   Barber and beauty shop;
      (16)   Beverage bottling plant;
      (17)   Billboard. Billboards may not be placed everywhere in this zone.
Sec special provisions dealing with billboards in Article 6 of this chapter;
      (18)   Boat building (small);
      (19)   Book and stationery store;
      (20)   Brewery;
      (21)   Brew pub;
      (22)   Bus depot;
      (23)   Business college and trade school;
      (24)   Cabinet shop. The entire business must be conducted within a
building;
      (25)   Campground;
      (26)   Church;
      (27)   Cleaning plant; commercial. The maximum gross floor area of a
building permitted for this use is 6,400 square feet. Incidental, non-nuisance-
producing processing, packaging, or fabricating is permitted if conducted
entirely within a building;
      (28)   Cleaning and laundry agency;
      (29)   Clinic;
      (30)   Communication facilities including communication tower, such tower
not to exceed 150 feet in height. No guy wires, outrigging, or other supporting
structures may extend beyond the foundation of the lower;
      (31)   Community center (public);
      (32)   Confectionery stores;
      (33)   Construct ion storage yard. Yard must be enclosed in Class 3
fence;
      (34)   Convenience warehouse storage facility;
      (35)   Convenience stores without dispensing gasoline;
      (36)   Convenience stores with dispensing gasoline;
      (37)   Dairy product processing;
      (38)   Dance, music, or voice studio;
      (39)   Day care center (child care center) or preschool;
      (40)   Delicatessen;
      (41)   Distillery;
      (42)   Drive-thru photo facility;
      (43)   Drive-thru (fast food) restaurant;
      (44)   Educational and scientific research service;
      (45)   Equipment rental and sales yard;
      (46)   Florist;
      (47)   Food store and delicatessen;
      (48)   Furniture refinishing. The entire business must be conducted
within a building;
      (49)   Furniture/appliance store;
      (50)   Gift shop;
      (51)   Gymnasium; private;
      (52)   Grocery store;
      (53)   Hardware store;
      (54)   Hospital;
      (55)   Insurance agency/services;
      (56)   Jewelry store;
      (57)   Laboratory, medical, dental, and optical;
      (58)   Laundry; commercial plant. The maximum gross floor area of a
building permitted for this use is 6,400 square feet. Incidental, non-nuisance-
producing processing, packaging, or fabricating is permitted if conducted
entirely within a building;
      (59)   Laundromat; self-service;
      (60)   Library;
      (61)   Lodge or club;
      (62)   Lumber yard;
      (63)   Machine shop;
      (64)   Marriage and family counseling;
      (65)   Metal finishing. Retail and wholesale metal finishing permitted,
providing the metal finishing equipment shall be used, and all parts to be or
which have been processed, together with all materials and supplies, shall be
stored, wholly within a building; and in addition, if metal plating is done,
not more than three persons may function in the metal plating line, the metal
plating line shall not use a floor area in excess of 1,500 square feet, and
only a self-contained processing system shall be used. A metal plating line
constitutes a metal plating process commencing with racking of a part to be
plated and ending with unracking of such part;
      (66)   Micro brewery;
      (67)   Micro distillery;
      (68)   Monument works; stone;
      (69)   Mortuary;
      (70)   Motel;
      (71)   Municipal uses;
      (72)   Nursery for children;
      (73)   Nursery for flowers/plants;
      (74)   Offices; professional and service;
      (75)   Parking lot, garage or facility;
      (76)   Pharmacy;
      (77)   Photographic studio;
      (78)   Printing and blueprinting;
      (79)   Professional membership organizations;
      (80)   Professional schools;
      (81)   Public garage;
      (82)   Railroad station;
      (83)   Recreational vehicle sales lot;
      (84)   Recreational vehicle storage lot; outside;
      (85)   Reducing/suntanning;
      (86)   Restaurant, bar, and tavern;
      (87)   Retail stores and services;
      (88)   Sandblasting. All commercial sandblasting of moveable objects to
be conducted wholly inside a building;
      (89)   Service station; full service;
      (90)   Service station; mixed use;
      (91)   Service station; self-service dispensing of gas only;
      (92)   Shoe store;
      (93)   Shop for building contractor. The entire business must be
conducted within a building;
      (94)   Sign shop;
      (95)   Tack shop;
      (96)   Tattoo parlor meeting the following conditions.
         (a)   Prior to operating a tattoo parlor, the operator/practitioner
must first apply for and receive a permit and certificate of occupancy from the
Development Services Director. The permit is subject to revocation if the
permittee at any time fails to comply with the conditions set forth herein.
         (b)   The operator/practitioner must comply with any and all federal,
state, and local regulations pertaining to the activity of tattoo artistry on
the human skin.
         (c)   The operator/practitioner must submit to regular and/or
unannounced inspections by the Department of Planning, Building and
Development, the County Department of Health, and any other authority empowered
to regulate such activities.
         (d)   All instruments and equipment must be cleaned and sterilized
before use. Sterilization of equipment shall be accomplished by exposure to
live steam for at least 30 minutes at a minimum pressure of 15 pounds per
square inch, temperature of 240ºF or 116ºC.
         (e)   The operator/practitioner must positively identify each client
and keep record of the client’s name, age, mailing address, and phone number
and not dispose of such information for a period of at least ten years. Any
transfer in ownership or operation of the business will result in revocation of
the permit. All records shall be relinquished to the Development Services
Director at that time.
         (f)   The operator/practitioner may not perform work on anyone 18
years of age or younger without written permission from the minor’s parent or
legal guardian.
         (g)   The operator/practitioner shall comply with the OSHA (Occupation
Safety and Health Act) blood borne pathogen rules as it relates to the
disposition of hazardous waste materials.
         (h)   To prevent the cause and/or spread of infection or disease, any
and all tattoo needles used for each client shall be disposed of properly and
not reused.
      (97)   Temporary medical housing;
      (98)   Terminal yard; trucking;
      (99)   Theater; indoor;
      (100)   Theater; drive-in;
      (101)   Tire shop and recapping (the entire business must be conducted
within a building);
      (102)   Tourist information booth;
      (103)   Tractor/trailer parking lot;
      (104)   Trailer parks;
      (105)   Travel trailers;
      (106)   Travel trailer, mobile home, and manufactured housing sales lot;
      (107)   Truck and tractor repair;
      (108)   Upholstery shop, provided all work is completed inside the
building;
      (109)   Used car lot;
      (110)   Utility business offices; and
      (111)   Warehousing/wholesaling facilities.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Emergency shelter;
      (2)   Implement dealers;
      (3)   Mobile home sales;
      (4)   Petroleum storage;
      (5)   Processing, packaging, or fabricating;
      (6)   Public scale;
      (7)   Recycling center;
      (8)   Residential use is permitted only within the confines of a building
in which a permitted use is conducted. Preliminary and final site plans must be
submitted to the Planning Commission for review and approval;
      (9)   Rooming/boarding houses;
      (10)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone;
      (11)   Temporary building may be permitted if such building complies with
all height and area requirements, and the use complies, except for the fact
that the building is a temporary one;
      (12)   Temporary storage of grain, for not to exceed 60 consecutive days
(and a permit for which may be renewed for not to exceed 60 consecutive days),
outside a building or structure subject the following additional conditions, to
be set forth in the permit.
         (a)   The grain shall be placed on a concrete floor or some other type
of waterproof material that, as determined by the Development Services
Director, is equal to a concrete floor.
         (b)   No part of the grain shall be placed, or caused or permitted to
be closer to any property line than any building setback line that has been
platted or is required in the zone to which the tract of kind is subject.
         (c)   The permit shall be subject to revocation by the Commission, if
the Commission, subsequent to granting the permit, shall determine that the
grain, or conditions incidental thereto, or the manner in which the grain is
being handled constitutes a public nuisance; and, upon such a determination,
the holder of the permit shall promptly comply with any order of the Commission
concerning removal or other disposition of the grain.
         (d)   Provided, no permit for such a use shall be issued and delivered
until the permittee shall have executed and delivered to the Development
Services Director a written agreement which, as determined by the Director,
indemnifies and holds harmless the city, its officers and employees and members
of the Planning Commission, against any and all claims of liability for
injuries or damages to persons or property caused, in whole or in part, by the
presence of the grain; by conditions occurring, in whole or in part, because of
presence of the grain or the manner in which the grain is delivered, piled,
moved, removed, or otherwise handled; and by any acts of commission or omission
on the part of any persons, whether or not the permittee or third persons for
whose acts or omissions liability otherwise might or might not be imputable to
the permittee. The terms “warehousing” and “wholesaling” shall not be construed
to apply to the storage of grain outside a building or structure.
      (13)   Two-family dwelling.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
 
       Minim  Minim         Maxim  Setbacks                             Floor
       um Lot um Lot Maxim  um #                         Side    Area   Maxim
Use    Size   Width  um     of     Fro nt Rea r  Interi  Stre et (Sq.   um
       (Sq.   (Sq.   Covera Dwelli (Ft.)  (Ft. ) or Side (Ft.)   Ft.)   Height
       Ft.)   Ft.)   ge (%) ng                   (Ft.)                  (Ft.)
                            Units
       None   *      *             C      A      B       12.5    PRT FA 35
Garage                                           12.5
*   Minimum lot area/dwelling unit = no requirements
PRTFA = Parking ratio to floor area
A   No minimum rear yard setback is required except lot a lot abutting the side
of a lot in either an R or O-P District, in which case the minimum rear yard
setback is 15 feet. If a public alley separates such lots, no rear yard is
required.
B   No minimum interior side yard setback is required except for a lot whose
side abuts the side of a lot in either an R or O-P District, in which latter
case the minimum interior side yard setback is five feet. If a public alley
separates such lots, no side yard is required.
C   The required minimum R District setback applies if the frontage between two
streets separates an R District and a C District. If all frontage between two
streets is in a C District, no front setback is required.
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Accessory building; attached. A building which if detached from the
main building would constitute an accessory building may be connected to the
main building by a breezeway or similar structure, and in such event, shall
meet all requirements for the main building.
(Ord 3965, passed - -2008; Ord. 3985, passed - -2009; Ord. 4187, passed - -
2016; Ord. 4198, passed - -2016; Ord. 4241, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 25-3-16 M-1 LIGHT MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of on M-1 Light Manufacturing and Industrial
District is a zone permitting most fabricating activities except heavy
manufacturing and processing of raw materials.
   (B)   Principle permitted uses.
      (1)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services;
      (2)   Ambulance service;
      (3)   Amusement centers; indoor only;
      (4)   Animal clinic; indoor only;
      (5)   Animal clinic; indoor/outdoor;
      (6)   Arts and crafts studio;
      (7)   Auction house;
      (8)   Auto sales and service;
      (9)   Auto storage and rental;
      (10)   Automated or coin-operated car wash;
      (11)   Bakery or bakery goods store;
      (12)   Bank automated teller facilities; outdoor;
      (13)   Bank automated teller facilities; indoor;
      (14)   Bank and savings and loan;
      (15)   Barber and beauty shop;
      (16)   Beverage bottling plant;
      (17)   Billboard. Billboards may not be placed everywhere in this zone.
See special provisions dealing with billboards in Article 6 of this chapter;
      (18)   Boat building (small);
      (19)   Book and stationery store;
      (20)   Brewery;
      (21)   Brew pub;
      (22)   Bus depot;
      (23)   Business college and trade school;
      (24)   Cabinet shop;
      (25)   Church;
      (26)   Cleaning plant; commercial;
      (27)   Cleaning and laundry agency;
      (28)   Clinic;
      (29)   Communication facilities including communication tower, such tower
not to exceed 150 feet in height. No guy wires, outrigging, or other supporting
structures may extend beyond the foundation of the tower;
      (30)   Community center (public);
      (31)   Concrete batch plant;
      (32)   Construction storage yard;
      (33)   Confectionery stores;
      (34)   Convenience stores without dispensing gasoline;
      (35)   Convenience stores with dispensing gasoline;
      (36)   Convenience warehouse storage facilities;
      (37)   Dairy product processing;
      (38)   Dance, music, or voice studio;
      (39)   Day care center (child care center) or preschool;
      (40)   Delicatessen;
      (41)   Distillery;
      (42)   Drive-thru photo facility;
      (43)   Drive-thru (fast food) restaurant;
      (44)   Educational and scientific research service;
      (45)   Equipment rental and sales yard;
      (46)   Feed mill;
      (47)   Florist;
      (48)   Food processing plant; oilier than meat;
      (49)   Food store and delicatessen;
      (50)   Fuel yard;
      (51)   Furniture refinishing;
      (52)   Furniture/appliance store;
      (53)   Gift shop;
      (54)   Gymnasium; private;
      (55)   Grocery store;
      (56)   Hardware store;
      (57)   Hospital;
      (58)   Hotel;
      (59)   Ice manufacture cold storage plant;
      (60)   Insurance agency/services;
      (61)   Jewelry store;
      (62)   Laboratory, medical, dental, and optical;
      (63)   Laundry; commercial plant;
      (64)   Laundromat; self-service;
      (65)   Library;
      (66)   Lodge or club;
      (67)   Lumber yard;
      (68)   Machine shop;
      (69)   Marriage and family counseling;
      (70)   Metal finishing;
      (71)   Micro brewery;
      (72)   Micro distillery;
      (73)   Monument works; stone;
      (74)   Mortuary;
      (75)   Motel;
      (76)   Municipal uses;
      (77)   Nursery for children;
      (78)   Nursery for flowers/plants;
      (79)   Offices; professional and service;
      (80)   Parking lot, garage, or facility;
      (81)   Pharmacy;
      (82)   Photographic studio;
      (83)   Planning mill;
      (84)   Printing and blueprinting;
      (85)   Processing, packaging, or fabricating. All processing, packaging,
or fabricating to be conducted wholly inside a building. Nuisance-producing
processing, packaging, or lubricating not permitted;
      (86)   Professional membership organizations;
      (87)   Professional schools;
      (88)   Public garage;
      (89)   Public scale;
      (90)   Railroad station;
      (91)   Recreational vehicle sales lot;
      (92)   Recreational vehicle storage lot; outside;
      (93)   Recycling center;
      (94)   Reducing/suntanning;
      (95)   Restaurant, bar, and tavern;
      (96)   Retail stores and services;
      (97)   Sandblasting;
      (98)   Service station; full service;
      (99)   Service station; mixed use;
      (100)   Service station; self service dispensing of gas only;
      (101)   Shoe store;
      (102)   Shop for building contractor;
      (103)   Sign shop;
      (104)   Single-family dwellings for living quarters for watchperson of
commercial or industrial use property, or for hotels and motels, are the only
permitted residential uses in this zone;
      (105)   Tattoo/body piercing establishment;
      (106)   Temporary medical housing;
      (107)   Terminal yard; trucking;
      (108)   Theater; indoor;
      (109)   Theater; drive-in;
      (110)   Tire shop and recapping;
      (111)   Tourist information booth;
      (112)   Tractor/trailer parking lot;
      (113)   Travel trailer, mobile home, and manufactured housing sales lot;
      (114)   Truck and tractor repair;
      (115)   Used car lot;
      (116)   Utility business offices;
      (117)   Warehousing/wholesaling facilities; and
      (118)   Wholesale stores and distributors.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Fertilizer mixing and storage plant;
      (2)   Junk yard;
      (3)   Petroleum storage;
      (4)   Scrap metal processing facility;
      (5)   Solid waste transfer station;
      (6)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements;
      (7)   Temporary building may be permitted if such building complies with
all height and area requirements, and the use complies, except for the fact
that the building is a temporary one, with all use requirements for the zone;
and
      (8)   Temporary storage of grain, for not to exceed 60 consecutive days
(and a permit for which may be renewed for not to exceed 60 consecutive days),
outside a building or structure subject the following additional conditions, to
be set forth in the permit.
         (a)   The grain shall be placed on a concrete floor or some other type
of waterproof material that, as determined by the Development Services
Director, is equal to a concrete floor.
         (b)   No part of the grain shall be placed, or caused or permitted to
be closer to any property line than any building setback line that has been
platted or is required in the zone to which the tract of land is subject.
         (c)   The permit shall be subject to revocation by the Commission, if
the Commission, subsequent to granting the permit, shall determine that the
grain, or conditions incidental thereto, or the manner in which the grain is
being handled constitutes a public nuisance; and, upon such a determination,
the holder of the permit shall promptly comply with any order of the Commission
concerning removal or other disposition of the grain.
         (d)   Provided, no permit for such a use shall be issued and delivered
until the permittee shall have executed and delivered to the Development
Services Director a written agreement which, as determined by the Director,
indemnifies and holds harmless the city, its officers, and employees and
members of the Planning Commission, against any and all claims of liability for
injuries or damages to persons or property caused, in whole or in part, by the
presence of the grain; by conditions occurring, in whole or in part, because of
presence of the grain or the manner in which the grain is delivered, piled,
moved, removed, or otherwise handled; and by any acts of commission or omission
on the part of any persons, whether or not the permittee or third persons for
whose acts or omissions liability otherwise might or might not be imputable to
the permittee. The terms “warehousing” and “wholesaling” shall not be construed
to apply to the storage of grain outside a building or structure.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
 
       Minim  Minim         Maxim   Setbacks                            Floor
       um Lot um Lot Maxim  um # of                        Side    Area Maxim
Use    Size   Width  um     Dwelli  Fro nt  Rea r  Interi  Stre et (Sq. um
       (Sq.   (Sq.   Covera ng      (Ft.)   (Ft. ) or Side (Ft.)   Ft.) Height
       Ft.)   Ft.)   ge (%) Units                  (Ft.)                (Ft.)

       None   *      *      0       C or 20 A      B       0       0    20
Garage                                                     12.5
*   Minimum lot area/dwelling unit = not allowed
A   No minimum rear yard setback is required except for a lot abutting the side
of a lot in either an R or O-P District, in which case the minimum rear yard
setback is 15 feet. If a public alley separates such lots, no rear yard is
required.
B   No minimum interior side yard setback is required except for a lot whose
side abuts the side of a lot in either an R or O-P District, in which latter
case, the minimum interior side yard setback is five feet. If a public alley
separates such lots, no side yard is required.
C   The required minimum R District setback applies if the frontage between two
streets separates an R District and either a C District, M District, or O-
P District. If all frontage between two streets is in either a C or M District,
no front setback is required.
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Accessory building; attached. A building which if detached from the
main building would constitute an accessory building may be connected to the
main building by a breezeway or similar structure, and in such event shall meet
all requirements for the main building.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007; Ord. 3985, passed - -2009; Ord. 4187, passed - -
2016; Ord. 4198, passed - -2016; Ord. 4241, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 25-3-17 RESERVED.
§ 25-3-18 M-2 HEAVY MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of an M-2 Heavy Manufacturing and Industrial
District is a zone permitting the manufacture and processing of goods from raw
materials.
   (B)   Principle permitted uses.
      (1)   Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping services;
      (2)   Ambulance service;
      (3)   Amusement centers; indoor only;
      (4)   Animal clinic; indoor only;
      (5)   Animal clinic; indoor/outdoor;
      (6)   Arts and crafts studio;
      (7)   Auction house;
      (8)   Auto sales and service;
      (9)   Auto storage and rental;
      (10)   Automated or coin-operated car wash;
      (11)   Bakery or bakery goods store;
      (12)   Bank automated teller facilities; outdoor;
      (13)   Bank automated teller facilities; indoor;
      (14)   Bank and savings and loan;
      (15)   Barber and beauty shop;
      (16)   Beverage bottling plant;
      (17)   Billboard. Billboards may not be placed everywhere in this zone.
See special provisions dealing with billboards in Article 6 of this chapter;
      (18)   Boat building (small);
      (19)   Book and stationery store;
      (20)   Brewery;
      (21)   Brew pub;
      (22)   Bus depot;
      (23)   Business college and trade school;
      (24)   Cabinet shop;
      (25)   Church;
      (26)   Cleaning plant; commercial;
      (27)   Cleaning and laundry agency;
      (28)   Clinic;
      (29)   Communication facilities including communication tower, such tower
not to exceed 150 feet in height. No guy wires, outrigging, or other supporting
structures may extend beyond the foundation of the lower;
      (30)   Community center (public);
      (31)   Concrete batch plant;
      (32)   Confectionery stores;
      (33)   Construction storage yard;
      (34)   Convenience stores without dispensing gasoline;
      (35)   Convenience stores with dispensing gasoline;
      (36)   Convenience warehouse storage facilities;
      (37)   Dairy product processing;
      (38)   Dance, music, or voice studio;
      (39)   Day care center (child care center) or preschool;
      (40)   Delicatessen;
      (41)   Distillery;
      (42)   Drive-thru photo facility;
      (43)   Drive-thru (fast food) restaurant;
      (44)   Educational and scientific research service;
      (45)   Equipment rental ami sales yard;
      (46)   Feed mill;
      (47)   Florist;
      (48)   Food processing plant, other than meat;
      (49)   Food store; delicatessen;
      (50)   Fuel yard;
      (51)   Furniture refinishing;
      (52)   Furniture/appliance store;
      (53)   Gift shop;
      (54)   Gymnasium; private;
      (55)   Grocery store;
      (56)   Hardware store;
      (57)   Hospital;
      (58)   Hotel;
      (59)   Ice manufacture cold storage plant;
      (60)   Insurance agency/services;
      (61)   Jewelry store;
      (62)   Laboratory, medical, dental, and optical;
      (63)   Laundry; commercial plant;
      (64)   Laundromat; self-service;
      (65)   Library;
      (66)   Lumber yard;
      (67)   Machine shop;
      (68)   Marriage and family counseling;
      (69)   Meat packing;
      (70)   Metal finishing;
      (71)   Micro brewery;
      (72)   Micro distillery;
      (73)   Monument works; stone;
      (74)   Mortuary;
      (75)   Motel;
      (76)   Municipal uses;
      (77)   Nursery for children;
      (78)   Nursery for flowers/plants;
      (79)   Offices; professional and service;
      (80)   Parking lot, garage, or facility;
      (81)   Petroleum storage;
      (82)   Pharmacy;
      (83)   Photographic studio;
      (84)   Planning mill;
      (85)   Printing and blueprinting;
      (86)   Processing, packaging, or fabricating;
      (87)   Professional membership organizations;
      (88)   Professional schools;
      (89)   Public garage;
      (90)   Public scale;
      (91)   Railroad station;
      (92)   Railroad yard or shops;
      (93)   Recreational vehicle sales lot;
      (94)   Recreational vehicle storage lot; outside
      (95)   Recycling center;
      (96)   Reducing/suntanning;
      (97)   Restaurant, bar, and tavern;
      (98)   Retail stores and services;
      (99)   Sandblasting;
      (100)   School;
      (101)   Service station; full service;
      (102)   Service station; mixed use;
      (103)   Service station; self-service dispensing of gas only;
      (104)   Shoe store;
      (105)   Shop for building contractor;
      (106)   Sign shop;
      (107)   Single-family dwellings for living quarters for watchperson of
commercial or industrial use property, or for hotels and motels, are the only
permitted residential uses in this zone;
      (108)   Tattoo/body piercing establishment;
      (109)   Temporary medical housing;
      (110)   Terminal yard; trucking;
      (111)   Theater; indoor;
      (112)   Theater; drive-in;
      (113)   Tire shop and recapping;
      (114)   Tourist information booth;
      (115)   Tractor/trailer parking lot;
      (116)   Travel trailer, mobile home, and manufactured housing sales lot;
      (117)   Truck and tractor repair;
      (118)   Used car lot;
      (119)   Utility business offices;
      (120)   Warehousing/wholesaling facilities; and
      (121)   Wholesale stores and distributors.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Asphalt batch plant;
      (2)   Fertilizer mixing and storage plant;
      (3)   Junk yard;
      (4)   Kennel; dog;
      (5)   Livestock auction or holding pens;
      (6)   Rendering plants;
      (7)   Scrap metal processing facility;
      (8)   Second dwelling for relatives; employees;
      (9)   Solid waste transfer station;
      (10)   Tanning, curing, and storage of skins or hides;
      (11)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone;
      (12)   Temporary building may be permitted if such building complies with
all height and area requirements, and the use complies, except for the fact
that the building is a temporary one, with all use requirements for the zone;
      (13)   Temporary storage of grain, for not to exceed 60 consecutive days
(and a permit for which may be renewed for not to exceed 60 consecutive days),
outside a building or structure subject the following additional conditions, to
be set forth in the permit.
         (a)   The grain shall be placed on a concrete floor or some other type
of waterproof material that, as determined by the Development Services
Director, is equal to a concrete floor.
         (b)   No part of the grain shall be placed, or caused or permitted to
be closer to any property line than any building setback line that has been
platted or is required in the zone lo which the tract of land is subject.
         (c)   The permit shall be subject to revocation by the Commission, if
the Commission, subsequent lo granting the permit, shall determine that the
grain, or conditions incidental thereto, or the manner in which the grain is
being handled constitutes a public nuisance; and, upon such a determination,
the holder of the permit shall promptly comply with any order of the Commission
concerning removal or other disposition of the grain.
         (d)   Provided, no permit for such a use shall be issued and delivered
until the permittee shall have executed and delivered to the Development
Services Director a written agreement which, as determined by the Director,
indemnifies and holds harmless the city, its officers and employees and members
of the Planning Commission, against any and all claims of liability for
injuries or damages to persons or property caused, in whole or in part, by the
presence of the grain; by conditions occurring, in whole or in part, because of
presence of the grain or the manner in which the grain is delivered, piled,
moved, removed, or otherwise handled; and by any acts of commission or omission
on the part of any persons, whether or not the permittee or third persons for
whose acts or omissions liability otherwise might or might not be imputable to
the permittee. The terms “warehousing” and “wholesaling” shall not be construed
to apply to the storage of grain outside a building or structure.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
 
       Minim  Minim         Maxim   Setbacks                            Floor
       um Lot um Lot Maxim  um # of                        Side    Area Maxim
Use    Size   Width  um     Dwelli  Fro nt  Rea r  Interi  Stre et (Sq. um
       (Sq.   (Sq.   Covera ng      (Ft.)   (Ft. ) or Side (Ft.)   Ft.) Height
       Ft.)   Ft.)   ge (%) Units                  (Ft.)                (Ft.)

       None   *      *      None    20      A      B       -       -    75
Garage                                                     12.5
*   Minimum lot area/dwelling unit = not allowed
A   No minimum rear yard setback is required except for a lot abutting the side
of a lot in either an R or O-P District, in which case the minimum rear yard
setback is 15 feet. If a public alley separates such lots, no rear yard is
required.
B   No minimum interior side yard setback is required except for a lot whose
side abuts the side of a lot in either an R or O-P District, in which latter
case, the minimum interior side yard setback is five feet. If a public alley
separates such lots, no side yard is required.
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Accessory building; attached. A building which if detached from the
main building would constitute an accessory building may be connected to the
main building by a breezeway or similar structure, and in such event shall meet
all requirements for the main building.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007; Ord. 3985, passed - -2009; Ord. 4187, passed - -
2016; Ord. 4198, passed - -2016; Ord. 4241, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 25-3-19 A AGRICULTURAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of an A Agricultural District is a zone in which
land is permitted to be used for raising of crops and pasturing cattle and
related activities.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture uses; general;
      (2)   Home occupations;
      (3)   Irrigation facilities;
      (4)   Kennel; dog;
      (5)   Municipal uses;
      (6)   Public utility facilities;
      (7)   Single-family dwelling;
      (8)   Stable;
      (9)   Tourist information booth; and
      (10)   Wineries and vineyards;
      (11)   Golf courses;
      (12)   Agricultural attractions; and
      (13)   Agricultural estate dwelling site.
      (14)   The intent of this division (B) is not to encourage the creation
of a large number of agricultural estate dwelling sites (AEDS) but such intent
is to allow the “subdivision” or sale, of a portion of a larger tract of land,
whereby the smaller parcel created is to be used primarily for dwelling site
purposes, upon the following more specific requirements.
         (a)   The AEDS must consist of one or more of the following:
            1.   An existing farmstead site (an existing vacant home and
accessory unit of buildings) on farm-ranch land;
            2.   A parcel which would allow a conveyance of property to be used
for dwelling purposes; and
            3.   A parcel of marginal usage land (“marginal usage” defined as
“land with little, or relatively little, agricultural productivity
capability”).
         (b)   Each AEDS with frontage on an existing dedicated public road,
shall have a minimum width of 150 feet (as a “front lot” width). In the event
such AEDS is of an interior-section type, it shall have a dedicated access
road, at least 25 feet in width, to a dedicated public road. Access road(s)
serving AEDS shall be separated by a distance of no less than 1,000 feet from
another access road, along a dedicated public road. Exception: less than 1,000
feet shall be approved by the State Department of Roads or city Development
Services Department, whichever is applicable.
         (c)   Each AEDS shall be a minimum of two acres and a maximum of 20.
         (d)   For each AEDS, the owner shall reserve the balance of the 80
acres of vacant or agricultural land (such 80 acres may, however, have dwelling
permitted by division (B)(11) above). This reservation shall be required
(reserved) for as long as the reserved land is zoned A Agricultural District.
The City Planning Commission and the City Council may permit the creation of an
AEDS out of less than 80 acres of reserved land, in certain situations, in the
event that the intent of this subsection is maintained. Each 80-acre tract (or
less) shall serve the reservation requirements of only one AEDS.
         (e)   Each AEDS shall be shaped and located so as to allow accurate
plotting on the official zoning map of the city (such as, abutting on lines
identifiable as a segment of section, such as a section line or a one-fourth
section line, or upon other readily identifiable features). Additionally, each
AEDS shall be subject to the provisions for preliminary plat procedure and
requirements from Chapter 21 of this code of ordinances.
         (f)   In reviewing an application for an AEDS, the Planning Commission
and the City Council shall take into consideration the effect of such an AEDS
upon utilities, roads, drainage, terrain, usage, zoning, future subdividing,
and the like. If approved, the AEDS parcel, along with the reserved tract,
shall be noted by the Development Services Department, for future reference.
         (g)   To obtain an AEDS, an application for the same shall be
presented by the owner(s) to the city Development Services Department. The
application shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission, at a regular meeting
of the same, and if approved, referred to the City Council for its approval. If
approved by the City Council, there shall then be prepared a “certificate”
identifying the AEDS, which certificate shall be filed in the real estate
records of the county.
         (h)   In the event that after approval an AEDS is no longer actually
used for a purpose in existence upon such approval (because of which purpose,
such approval was given), then the approval granted by the City Council shall
automatically be revoked.
         (i)   Each agricultural estate dwelling site shall be a minimum of two
acres for each dwelling, (maximum of two dwellings per site), excluding any and
all easements and rights-of-way with a maximum upwards of 20 acres.
         (j)   Before any final action can be taken, the applicant shall submit
a receipt from the County Treasurer’s office showing that all current property
taxes have been paid.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Accessory single-family dwelling for persons customarily employed
or engaged in farming and ranching;
      (2)   Cemetery;
      (3)   Church;
      (4)   Community center (public);
      (5)   Educational and charitable institutions;
      (6)   Florist;
      (7)   Fruit and vegetable stand;
      (8)   Hospital;
      (9)   Lodge or club;
      (10)   Nursery for flowers and plants;
      (11)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone;
      (12)   Temporary storage of grain, for not to exceed 60 consecutive days
(and a permit for which may be renewed for not to exceed 60 consecutive days),
outside a building or structure subject the following additional conditions, to
be set forth in the permit.
         (a)   The grain shall be placed on a concrete floor or some other type
of waterproof material that, as determined by the Development Services
Director, is equal to a concrete floor.
         (b)   No part of the grain shall be placed, or caused or permitted to
be closer to any property line than any building setback line that has been
platted or is required in the zone to which the tract of land is subject.
         (c)   The permit shall be subject to revocation by the Commission, if
the Commission, subsequent to granting the permit, shall determine that the
grain, or conditions incidental thereto, or the manner in which the grain is
being handled constitutes a public nuisance; and, upon such a determination,
the holder of the permit shall promptly comply with any order of the Commission
concerning removal or other disposition of the grain.
         (d)   Provided, no permit for such a use shall be issued and delivered
until the permittee shall have executed and delivered to the Development
Services Director a written agreement which, as determined by the Director,
indemnifies and holds harmless the city, its officers, and employees and
members of the Planning Commission, against any and all claims of liability for
injuries or damages to persons or property caused, in whole or in part, by the
presence of the grain; by conditions occurring, in whole or in part, because of
presence of the grain or the manner in which the grain is delivered, piled,
moved, removed, or otherwise handled; and by any acts of commission or omission
on the part of any persons, whether or not the permittee or third persons for
whose acts or omissions liability otherwise might or might not be imputable to
the permittee. The terms “warehousing” and “wholesaling” shall not be construed
to apply to the storage of grain outside a building or structure.
      (13)   Wind energy conversion systems.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
 
         Minim  Minim         Maxim  Setbacks                           Floor
         um Lot um Lot Maxim  um #                         Side    Area Maxim
Use      Size   Width  um     of     Fro nt Rea r  Interi  Stre et (Sq. um
         (Sq.   (Sq.   Covera Dwelli (Ft.)  (Ft. ) or Side (Ft.)   Ft.) Height
         Ft.)   Ft.)   ge (%) ng                   (Ft.)                (Ft.)
                              Units
Garage                                                     12.5
Single-
family          20     -      1             50     50      20      0    75
dwelling
Minimum lot area/dwelling unit = 20 acres
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Accessory building; attached. A building which if detached from the
main building would constitute an accessory building may be connected to the
main building by a breezeway or similar structure, and in such event shall meet
all requirements for the main building.
(Ord. 4072, passed - -2012; Ord. 4270, passed 1-3-2022)
§ 25-3-20 AR AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of a (AR) Agricultural District is to provide a
transition from agricultural and ranching to low density residential
development. In this zone are permitted large residential estates with
accompanying agricultural land uses that do not conflict with residential uses.
   (B)   Principle permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses; general;
      (2)   Florist;
      (3)   Home occupations;
      (4)   Irrigation facilities;
      (5)   Municipal uses;
      (6)   Single-family dwelling;
      (7)   Stable; and
      (8)   Tourist information booth.
   (C)   Special permit uses.
      (1)   Cabinet shop;
      (2)   Church;
      (3)   Community center (public);
      (4)   Educational and charitable institutions;
      (5)   Fire stations;
      (6)   Fruit and vegetable stand;
      (7)   Hospital;
      (8)   Kennel; dog;
      (9)   Lodge or club;
      (10)   Nursery for flowers and plants; and
      (11)   Temporary building or contractor’s storage and construction yard,
incidental to the construction of a residential development or a real estate
sales office to be used in marketing lots in a new subdivision, may be
permitted if such a building or structure complies with all height and area
requirements for the zone.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations.
 
         Minim  Minim         Maxim  Setbacks                           Floor
         um Lot um Lot Maxim  um #                         Side    Area Maxim
Use      Size   Width  um     of     Fro nt Rea r  Interi  Stre et (Sq. um
         (Sq.   (Sq.   Covera Dwelli (Ft.)  (Ft. ) or Side (Ft.)   Ft.) Height
         Ft.)   Ft.)   ge (%) ng                   (Ft.)                (Ft.)
                              Units
Garage                                                     12.5
Single-  5
family   acres                1      50     50     20      50      0    75
dwelling
Minimum lot area/dwelling unit = 5 acres
 
      (2)   Accessory building/garage; detached.
         (a)   A detached accessory building must be located at least ten feet
from the main building.
         (b)   On an existing reversed corner lot, a detached accessory
building or garage may project into the side yard nearest the rear lot line if
it does not extend beyond the front yard setback of the main structure, and if
entrance to the garage is from the side street, the garage must be set back
from the side street property line a distance of not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Accessory building; attached. A building which if detached from the
main building would constitute an accessory building may be connected to the
main building by a breezeway or similar structure, and in such event shall meet
all requirements for the main building.
    (E)   Special regulations for AR-1 Zoning District. The following rules are
applicable in AR-1 Zoning District.
      (1)   No pens or buildings primarily used for the housing of any
livestock, swine, or fowl may be located closer than 50 feet from the lot line.
      (2)   No more than 3% of the lot size may be used for pens, corrals, or
buildings for the housing of livestock, swine, or fowl.
      (3)   All fowl or swine shall be confined within pens, corrals, or
buildings.
      (4)   No horses may be kept on a lot smaller than one-fourth acre. The
number of horses on the lot may not exceed one per one-fourth acre. Colts are
considered as horses within the meaning of this rule.
      (5)   No sheep shall be kept on a lot smaller than one-fourth acre. The
maximum number of sheep allowed on the lot is three sheep per acre. Lambs are
considered sheep within the meaning of this rule.
      (6)   No cattle may be kept on a lot smaller than one acre. The number of
cattle may not exceed three per acre. Calves and steers are considered cattle
within the meaning of this rule.
      (7)   No swine may be kept on a lot smaller than four acres. The number
of swine may not exceed one per acre. Immature swine are considered swine
within the meaning of this rule.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007)
§ 25-3-21 REPEALED.
§ 25-3-22 REPEALED.
§ 25-3-23 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings, regardless of the direction
they face, may not project beyond the rear of the main building. Accessory
structures under 200 square feet shall be anchored to a four-inch concrete
slab, pier footings, or secured by some other means approved by the Development
Services Director or his/her designee.
   (B)   Building projections; lateral. Eaves may extend into the front yard
and rear yard setback area not to exceed a distance of two feet, but may not
extend into a side yard setback area. Porches, covered porches, decks,
platforms, or terraces not over three feet above the average level of the
adjoining ground may extend eight feet into the required front yard. This
exception shall not exceed any more than eight feet into any front yard setback
established in the zoning district. Covered porches, decks, platforms, or
terraces shall not be enclosed with any solid material, such as screening,
siding, plywood, or other solid material normally used for outside wall
covering. Any railing shall comply with the requirements of the adopted
Building Code and shall be at least 50% open to the passage of air and light.
Open or enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways, or balconies may
not project more than five feet into a yard, nor more than three and one-half
feet into a court.
   (C)   Buildings and structures; projections; vertical. In measuring height
of buildings or structures for compliance with this chapter, the following
parts of buildings or structures are not included, except where expressly
otherwise provided; parapet walls not more than four feet high; chimneys,
cooling towers, elevators, bulkheads, fire towers, grain elevators, penthouses
stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, sugar towers, ornamental tanks, radio or
television towers, ornamental towers, monuments, cupolas, domes and spires, and
necessary mechanical appurtenances; provided, such projections shall not be so
placed as to obstruct light or ventilation.
   (D)   Covered patio or porch. A covered patio, porch, or similar accessory
structure must comply with all yard area and space requirements applicable to
an attached or detached accessory building, whichever is applicable. A front
covered patio or porch shall not be enclosed. If a front covered patio or porch
is enclosed, it shall no longer fall under this division (D) and shall be
considered part of the building.
   (E)   Carport. A carport may be attached to the main residence. If the
carport is open on two sides, it may be built to the interior property line.
The interior lot line side of the carport shall not be enclosed. Stormwater
runoff from the carport roof shall not drain onto adjoining property. There
shall be an opening of a width of not less than 36 inches and of a height not
less than that of a standard door to allow transportation between the front and
back yards.
   (F)   Common area. Where a building adjoins an area held in common with
other property owners in the immediate vicinity, the roof overhang of the
building may encroach into the commonly held area provided that the minimum
spacing between buildings as mandated by the applicable Fire Prevention Code is
maintained.
   (G)   Corner lot; obstructions. No building or structure, or a part thereof,
may be built on a corner lot in any R District, or residentially used lot or
tract of land, within a triangular area bounded by the lot lines abutting two
intersecting streets and a line connecting a point lying on each lot line 20
feet from the point of intersection of the lot lines. Shrubs within this area
may not exceed three feet in height and trees therein must be trimmed to a
height above the curb or established street grade of at least eight feet.
   (H)   Corner lot; side street. A building on a corner lot shall be set back
from the side street not less than one-half of the distance required by this
chapter for a front building setback. In Districts C-1, C-2, and C-3, no
building or structure, or any part thereof, shall be constructed within a
triangular area at the street corner of a lot or tract which has, as its sides,
sides herein designated and described. Side A shall consist of a side that
borders the lane of traffic approaching the intersection, and that is 15 feet
in length. Side B shall consist of a side that borders the lane of traffic
leaving the intersection and that is five feet in length. Side C shall be the
hypotenuse.
   (I)   Decorative structures. A special permit may be issued to erect in a
front setback area a decorative structure, exclusive of signs, which does not
have a height in excess of three feet above the ground.
   (J)   Feedlots. New feedlots and the expansion of existing feedlots are not
permitted within the city’s zoning jurisdiction.
   (K)   Hotels and motels; lot area. Lot area requirements for dwelling units
apply to hotels and motels which provide kitchen facilities in any room, suite,
or apartment.
   (L)   Lot dimensions; reduction. After the effective date of this chapter,
no lot area, size, or other dimension may be reduced below the minimum lot
area, size, or other dimension required by this chapter. If the area, size or
other dimension is below such minimum requirements when this chapter becomes
effective, it may not be reduced further.
   (M)   Particular streets; setbacks. All buildings and structures, except
fences and signs, shall be set back from the following streets not less than
the following distances:
      (1)   From east side of 1st Avenue between East 15th Street and East
Overland: ten feet;
      (2)   From east side of 1st Avenue between East 19th and East 20th
Streets: ten feet;
      (3)   From both sides of Broadway Avenue between the south city limits
and West Overland Drive: 20 feet;
      (4)   From both sides of West 27th Street between Broadway Avenue and the
west city limits: 20 feet; and
      (5)   From both sides of East Overland Drive between Railway Street and
the east city limits: 20 feet. If setbacks required by other provisions of this
chapter are greater than those specified in this section, the setback
requirements of such other provisions shall govern.
   (N)   Railroad intersection. No building or other structure may be placed on
a triangular tract of land which on one side abuts a public street that is
intersected by a railroad track, on a second side abuts the railroad right-of-
way, and the third boundary line which, extended, intersects the centerline of
the nearest rail and the nearest right-of-way line of the street at points
respectively, which are less than 50 feet distant from the point of
intersection of such centerline of the nearest rail and such right-of-way line
of the street extended.
   (O)   Rear yard; depth; area. In computing depth or area of a rear yard for
a lot whose rear yard opens into an alley, one-half of the width of the alley
is considered to be part of the yard.
   (P)   Semi-detached dwellings; bungalow court; setbacks. For purposes of the
application of front, side, and rear yard setbacks, a semi-detached (two-
family) dwelling or a bungalow court is considered to be one building occupying
one lot.
   (Q)   Setbacks; front. Front yard setback requirements apply to that part of
the yard abutting a front street whether the building on the lot fronts on the
front or a side street. A building on a corner lot shall be set back form the
side street not less than one-half the distance required by the chapter for a
front building setback. In Districts C-1, C-2, and C-3, no building or
structure, or any part thereof, shall be constructed within a triangular area
at the street corner of a lot or tract which has, as its sides, sides herein
designated and described. Side A shall consist of a side that borders the lane
of traffic approaching the intersection and that is 15 feet in length. Side B
shall consist of a side that borders the lane of traffic leaving the
intersection and that is five feet in length. Side C shall be the hypotenuse.
Accessory buildings, regardless of the direction they face, may not project
beyond nor into any yard required by the chapter, nor may they be located in
such yard.
   (R)   Setbacks; plat. If setbacks greater than required by this chapter are
shown in a recorded plat of an addition or subdivision which has been approved
by the City Council, compliance shall be had with the setbacks shown in the
plat.
   (S)   Setbacks; quarter section lines. If a track abuts upon or is adjacent
to a quarter section line on which no public street, alley, highway, road, or
way has been established, the front and rear setback requirements for buildings
and structures which are established elsewhere in this chapter shall apply to
that part of the tract which so abuts or is so adjacent as if the quarter
section line were the centerline of a platted street which is 100 feet in
width, and as if the tract or, as the case may be, part of the tract fronted on
such street.
   (T)   Subdivided lot; noncompliance; special permit. Anything in this
article to the contrary notwithstanding, if the City Council shall have
approved the subdivision of a lot (whether by approval of a final replat or
approval of a subdivision without a plat) into two or more tracts on each of
which there has existed since prior to June 10, 1974 one or more residence
buildings, and after the subdivision one or more of such tracts or buildings
shall not comply, because of such subdivision, with one or more other
requirements of this article, the Planning Commission, upon an application made
pursuant to Article 16 of this chapter and compliance with all other
requirements of such article, may issue a special permit waiving such
noncompliance with this article, subject to such conditions, if any, as the
permit may prescribe.
   (U)   Swimming pool; location. A swimming pool or similar accessory
structure may not be located in either a front or side yard setback area.
   (V)   Use of land and public utility. The use of land (exclusive of public
streets and alleys) and buildings in any location for public utility (whether
publicly or privately-owned) purposes which the Commission finds reasonably
necessary for the public convenience and welfare. The permits authorized in
divisions (C) and (D) above may not be granted for more than one year, but may
be renewed for periods not exceeding one year each for written application made
at least 30 days before the one period expires.
   (W)   Uses; illegal; existing. No use of any lot, tract of land, building,
or structure which was illegal at the time this chapter was enacted is made
legal by the enactment of this chapter unless the use conforms fully to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (X)   Uses requiring special permit. The following uses which, in absence of
a special permit granted by the Planning Commission, are not permitted in any
zone or, as the case may be, if certain zones are permitted if the Planning
Commission grants a special permit for the use:
      (1)   Accessory living quarters for persons employed in agricultural work
on the land;
      (2)   Animal hospital or dog kennel;
      (3)   Slaughtering of animals or poultry;
      (4)   Outdoor amusement enterprises;
      (5)   Cemetery;
      (6)   A family child care home which is already permitted in a zone when
providing care for more than 12 hours per day. Provided that any individual
child may only be present for 12 hours or less per day but the family child
care home may operate any time of the day or night after a special permit is
approved;
      (7)   Drive-in theater;
      (8)   Golf course or driving range;
      (9)   Hospital, sanitarium, or chemical dependency rehabilitation
facility;
      (10)   Livestock feeding or sale yard;
      (11)   Nuisance-producing agricultural use;
      (12)   Nursing home;
      (13)   Private club or social center;
      (14)   Sand or gravel pit or plant, borrow pit, stripping of top soil, or
recycling concrete rubble and the retail sale of the resulting product;
      (15)   Private or parochial school or similar institution;
      (16)   Oil or gas well; and
      (17)   Facility providing temporary care for runaway or homeless minors.
The term “runaway or homeless minors” includes, but is not limited to, minors
of that description who are placed in the facility by order of a court or by
other public agency.
   (Y)   Yard space; openness. Except as otherwise permitted in this article,
the minimum required yard must be open above its lowest point to the sky. A
yard or open space required for one building or structure may not be used to
fulfill a yard or open space required for any other building or structure.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007; Ord. 3971, passed - -2008; Ord. 3985, passed - -
2009; Ord. 4056, passed - -2011; Ord. 4208, passed - -2017)
§ 25-3-24 REPEALED.
§ 25-3-25 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Basement garages; grade. No basement garage may be constructed with a
front entrance below the established grade nor may such an entrance be
constructed in an existing building or structure, unless proper drainage, as
determined by the Development Services Director, is provided.
   (B)   Buildings, structure; design; construction. No building or structure
may be erected or structurally altered unless its architectural design and
construction conforms to applicable provisions of this chapter insofar as such
conformity may be accomplished without unreasonable hardship or substantial
interference with the lawful intended use of such building or structure.
   (C)   Dwelling unit; inside entrance. Rooms within a dwelling unit must have
their principal entrance from inside the dwelling unit.
   (D)   Ground cover, surfacing. Front yard and side yard setback areas may be
landscaped and maintained with low ground cover, except in the case of an
approved off-street parking area. Asphaltic concrete, masonry, rock, gravel or
other forms of artificial surfacing may not be used as a principal ground
cover.
   (E)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   A manufactured home shall be located and installed according to the
same standards for foundation system, permanent utility connections, setback,
and minimum square footage which would apply to a site-built, single-family
dwelling on the same lot.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area;
         (b)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width;
         (c)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two
and one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
         (d)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction;
         (e)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock; and
         (f)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed. Mobile home parks shall be excluded from
these guidelines. All manufactured (mobile) homes shall meet the standards set
forth in the HUD - manufactured housing & standards or verification of HUD
standard upgrades.
   (F)   Multiple unit buildings; exits. Each dwelling unit in a multiple unit
residence building, or in a multiple use building, shall have a front and rear
exit, or an exit to a corridor on the same level which has a front and rear
exit.
   (G)   Public storage garages; location. No public garage used only for
storing motor vehicles may have either a motor vehicle entrance or exit which
is within 200 feet of an entrance or exit of any existing public or private
school playground, public library, religious assembly, hospital, children’s
home or nursing home, or a similar public or private institution. No public or
private school playground, public library, religious assembly, hospital,
children’s home, nursing home, or a similar public or private institution may
be built within 200 feet of either the motor vehicle entrance or exit to a
public garage used for storing motor vehicles.
   (H)   Public street; abut; necessity. No building or structure shall be so
constructed on a lot or tract of land which does not abut on a public street
for a distance of at least 20 feet.
   (I)   Railroad premises; tracks; docks. A railroad right-of-way may be used
for railroad or spin-tracks. Loading and unloading platforms or structures may
be located on a railroad right-of-way only if the abutting property is in a C-
3 or M District and no R District is within 300 feet of the platform or
structure on the same side of the right-of-way.
   (J)   Single-family dwelling; walls. A single-family dwelling shall be
constructed as a single building with connecting walls. The plane surface of
any connecting wall shall be at least eight feet in length.
   (K)   Quonset; R District. No quonset-type building or structure may be
built or placed on any lot or tract of land in an R District.
   (L)   Shipping containers.
      (1)   Shipping containers defined. For the purposes of this chapter, a
SHIPPING CONTAINER shall mean any container, which may otherwise be known as a
container, freight container, ISO container, shipping container, high-cube
container, box, C container or container van, designed to store and move
materials and products across various modes of the Intermodal Freight
Transportation System.
      (2)   General restrictions for shipping containers.
         (a)   A shipping container may be placed in the front yard setback
only if being used for moving or relocating purposes.
         (b)   A shipping container may not be placed within the site triangle
as defined in §
25-2-104.1 of this chapter.
         (c)   A shipping container may not exceed eight feet in width, nine
feet in height or 40 feet in length.
         (d)   A shipping container must be kept out of easements, public
rights-of-way, and setbacks except as otherwise provided for in this code.
         (e)   A shipping container may be placed on a lot without a permit if
it is incidental to the permitted construction activities on the same lot. The
shipping container must be removed at the completion of the construction
project or expiration of the building permit.
      (3)   Residential zoning districts. A shipping container is allowed on a
temporary basis only if a valid permit is issued by the city’s Planning and
Development Department. No shipping container shall be allowed, except on a
temporary basis for moving or actually used for construction activities, in all
residential zoning districts. A shipping container may be allowed on a
developed lot for a period of 30 days if used for moving or if used for
construction activities as set forth in division (L)(2)(e) above. If additional
time is required, the owner of the lot may apply for one 30-day permitted
extension.
      (4)   Commercial zoning districts. Shipping containers may be used only
for storage or shipping by the occupant of the lot in all commercial zoning
districts only as an accessory building provided:
         (a)   A valid permit for its use is issued by the city’s Planning and
Development Department;
         (b)   All shipping containers are located in areas not generally
utilized by the customers of the commercial business and where shipping and
receiving are conducted on the lot;
         (c)   All shipping containers are maintained and kept in good repair
with no holes and rust and must be adequately secured to prevent entry by
unauthorized people;
         (d)   All shipping containers must be placed on a level surface with a
base of rock or concrete/pavement so as to prevent any settling of the shipping
container while it is on the lot;
         (e)   Comply with the requirements of division (L)(5) below; and
         (f)   Comply with all requirements for accessory building.
      (5)   In AG, C-l, C-2, C-3, M-l, and M-2 Zoning Districts, no shipping
containers shall be allowed except as provided:
         (a)   A building permit is required for a shipping container which
will remain on the lot for a period greater than six months and used for on-
site storage of material incidental to the permitted or accessory use of the
lot. The building permit must be procured through the Planning and Development
Department of the city;
         (b)   A shipping container located in a front or side yard must be
painted so no signage or language is visible;
         (c)   A shipping container may not be connected to any city utility;
         (d)   A shipping container must be kept in good repair with no holes
or rust; and
         (e)   A shipping container must be placed on a level surface with a
base of rock or concrete so as to prevent any settling of the shipping
container while it is on the lot.
(Ord. 4072, passed - -2012; Ord. 4191, passed - -2016; Ord. 4303, passed 5-1-
2023)
ARTICLE 4: FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES
Section
   
25-4-1   Intent
   
25-4-2   Classes
   
25-4-3   Residence and business zones; dwellings; requirements
   
25-4-4   Commercial and industrial zones; requirements
   
25-4-5   Screen fence
   
25-4-6   Perimeter fences; residence; generally
   
25-4-7   Utility easements; fences on
   
25-4-8   Height; measurement
§ 25-4-1 INTENT.
   The regulations in this article govern the type, location, and construction
of fences, walls, and hedges.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-4-2 CLASSES.
   (A)   Fences, walls, and hedges are classified as:
      (1)   Masonry walls;
      (2)   Ornamental iron fences;
      (3)   Woven wire fences;
      (4)   Wood fences (more than 50% open);
      (5)   Solid fences (wood or metal less than 50%); and
      (6)   Hedges.
   (B)   The term FENCE is used in this article as a generic term including all
such classes, except where the context otherwise indicates.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-4-3 RESIDENCE AND BUSINESS ZONES; DWELLINGS; REQUIREMENTS.
   Fences in residence and business zones, and those enclosing a lot or tract
of land used for dwelling purposes in any zone, must conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Front. Fences constructed between the front building setback line and
the front lot line may be of any class, but shall not exceed 42 inches in
height, provided however, that fences of the Class 2 and Class 3 may exceed 42
inches in height but may not exceed 48 inches in height.
   (B)   Side. Side yard fences back of the front building setback line may be
of any class, but may not exceed 72 inches in height.
   (C)   Rear. Rear yard fences may be of any class, but may not exceed 72
inches in height.
   (D)   Corner lot. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article to
the contrary, no fence exceeding 36 inches in height, measured from sidewalk
grade, and if no sidewalk exists, from the top of curb, with a 50% open design
may be built:
      (1)   On a corner lot, within a triangular area bounded on two sides by
the intersecting street right-of-way lines and on the third side by a line
connecting points on each right-of-way line which are 20 feet from their
intersection; or
      (2)   On a corner lot adjoining an alley, within a triangular area
bounded on two sides by the intersecting right-of-way lines of the alley and
adjoining side street and on the third side by a line connecting points on each
right-of-way line which are located at the distance from their intersection
which is equal to the applicable side street setback requirement.
   (E)   On retaining wall. If a fence is constructed on the top of a retaining
wall, the height of the fence is measured from the ground on the low side of
the retaining wall, except that a Class 2, 3, 4, or 6 fence may be constructed
on top of a retaining wall to a height not more than 30 inches above the ground
measured on the high side of the retaining wall.
   (F)   Retaining wall design. A retaining wall must be adequately designed,
constructed, and drained to withstand any lateral pressure to which it is
subject.
   (G)   Obstruction of vision. Anything in this article to the contrary
notwithstanding, no fence, retaining wall, shrub, tree, or similar obstruction
may be constructed or maintained if it will obstruct traffic vision.
   (H)   Dangerous; prohibited. No barbed wire, other sharp pointed, or
electrically charged fence may be constructed or maintained.
   (I)   Dilapidated; dangerous; removal. The Development Services Director may
order any dilapidated or dangerous fence removed.
   (J)   Utility substations. Anything in this article to the contrary
notwithstanding, fences enclosing public or private utility substations in
residential zones need conform only to the requirements set forth in this
section.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4013, passed - -2010)
§ 25-4-4 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES; REQUIREMENTS.
   Fences in commercial and industrial zones must conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Front. A fence constructed between the front setback line and the
front lot line may not exceed 42 inches in height, and must be of either Class
2, 3, or 6 construction. If the fence is of Class 2 or 3 construction, such
fence may not exceed 48 inches in height. If it is of Class 6 construction,
such fence may not exceed 42 inches in height. If no front setback line has
been established, fences may be of any height or type of construction.
   (B)   Rear. If no rear yard setback has been established, fences may be of
any height or type of construction.
   (C)   Barbed wire. Barbed wire or similar material may be used to construct
that part of a fence, situated in a rear or side yard setback area of a tract
of land in a C-3 or M Zoning District, which is more than 84 inches in height,
providing that the Development Services Director determines that the barbed
wire will not be detrimental to adjoining property.
   (D)   Electrically charged. An electrically charged fence may not be
constructed or maintained.
   (E)   Repair; removal. Fences must be kept in repair. The Development
Services Director may order any dilapidated or dangerous fence removed.
(Ord. 4072, passed - -2012)
§ 25-4-5 SCREEN FENCE.
   (A)   Where a lot or tract of land in a business, commercial, or industrial
zone adjoins a lot or tract of land in a residence zone, the occupant of the
business, commercial, or industrial lot or tract of land shall construct and
maintain thereon adjacent to the common boundary line a suitable screen fence
not less than 72 inches high which the Development Services Director determines
will not be detrimental to the adjoining property.
      (1)   Children’s areas. A security fence may be constructed in any zone
within a side or rear yard or a playground of a public or private school,
nursery, or day care facility, or a public park or playground. Such a fence
shall be of an open design having a ratio of open portion to solid portion of
not less than six to one (6:1) and shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (2)   Tennis courts; game areas. A fence may be constructed in any zone
to enclose tennis courts and public game areas and a game area within a rear
yard of a residential lot or tract of land.
   (B)   Such a fence shall be constructed of wire mesh which will admit not
less than 90% of light as measured by a light meter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-4-6 PERIMETER FENCES; RESIDENCE; GENERALLY.
   Perimeter fences in residence zones shall conform to the requirements in §
25-4-3(A) to (I) of this article, except as follows.
   (A)   Adjacent to streets. Segments of a perimeter fence which are
constructed substantially parallel with and adjacent to the boundary lines of
front and side streets, or either, shall be of a single uniform class and
height, which latter shall not exceed 72 inches; provided, any segment of a
perimeter fence constructed pursuant to a special permit within the right-of-
way of a street, alley, or other public way outside the corporate limits of the
city shall be a Class 2, 3, or 4 fence.
   (B)   Side. Any segment of a perimeter fence which is constructed on, or
adjacent to and substantially parallel with a boundary line between abutting
blocks, lots, or tracts of land shall conform to the requirements for side yard
fences which are contained in this article.
   (C)   Rear. Any segment of a perimeter fence which is constructed on, or
adjacent to and substantially parallel with, the rear boundary line of any
blocks, lots, or tracts of land shall be of a single, uniform class and height,
and shall otherwise conform to the requirements for rear yard fences which are
contained this article.
   (D)   Corner. Perimeter fences on corner lots, anything in §
25-4-3(A) to (I) of this article, inclusive, to the contrary notwithstanding,
shall conform to the requirements for fences on corner lots which are contained
in this article.
   (E)   Special permit. Perimeter fences are permitted on residence zones if a
special permit therefor is issued by the Planning Commission, subject to
conditions stated in Article 13 of this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-4-7 UTILITY EASEMENTS; FENCES ON.
   Anything in any other section of this article to the contrary
notwithstanding, any fence, or part thereof, erected within that part of any
lot, block, or other tract of land which is subject to an easement for the
construction, maintenance, operation, or replacement of any water, sanitary or
storm sewer, or gas line, or electric power, telephone, or other utility poles,
cables, or lines shall be constructed of such material and so designed as to be
readily removable, as determined by the Development Services Director, whenever
necessary to enable the owner of the easement to enjoy the use thereof.
Provided, permission of the Planning and Building Director to erect a fence on
land that is subject to such an easement shall not bind, and shall be without
prejudice to the rights of, owners of easements other than the city. Such
fences shall be subject to removal by, or upon request of, the owner of the
easement whenever necessary to enable the owner of the easement to enjoy the
easement and, if removed or replaced, shall be removed or replaced at the
expense of the owner of the premises.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-4-8 HEIGHT; MEASUREMENT.
   The height of a fence means, for purposes of this article, in the case of a
fence situated in a required building setback area which abuts a street, the
height measured from the finished grade on the side nearest the street, or in
the case of a fence situated in other areas, the height measured from the
finished grade of the immediately adjacent part of the area for which the fence
constitutes a barrier. Provided, if a fence which is required by any provision
of this chapter is situated adjacent to a property line on one side of which
the level of the finished grade is different from the level of the finished
grade on the other side, the required height of the fence is the height
measured from the higher level.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 5: OFF-STREET PARKING/LOADING
Section
   
25-5-1   Spaces; required; when; number
   
25-5-2   Exceptions
   
25-5-3   Increased use; moved building
   
25-5-4   Location
   
25-5-5   Setback area
   
25-5-6   Stalls
   
25-5-7   Back-out parking
   
25-5-8   Public alley
   
25-5-9   Surface
   
25-5-10   Drainage
   
25-5-11   Bumper curbs
   
25-5-12   Walkways
   
25-5-13   Fence and screen
   
25-5-14   Lighting
   
25-5-15   Certificate of occupancy; condition to issuance
   
25-5-16   Uses
   
25-5-17   Off-street loading facilities
§ 25-5-1 SPACES; REQUIRED; WHEN; NUMBER.
   Whenever a lot or tract of land shall be used for any of the following
purposes, the owner or occupant shall provide and maintain off-street motor
vehicle parking spaces as follows.
Land Use Parking Spaces
Land Use                                  Parking Spaces
Auction house                             One space per 15 square feet gross
                                          floor area
Bowling alley                             Six spaces per lane
Church, mortuary, sports arena, and       One space per four seats
theater
Club (residential), hotel, and rooming    One space per two guest rooms
house
Dance hall, skating rink, and lodge hall  One space per 100 square feet area
Fraternity, sorority, and dormitory       One space per two occupants
General commercial use                    One space per 500 square feet gross
                                          floor area
Hospital                                  One space per patient bed
Motel                                     One space per guest room
Nursing home                              One space per two patient beds
Offices                                   One space per 400 square feet gross
                                          floor area
Residential uses (except as provided      One space per dwelling unit
below)
Residential - multi-dwelling unit         One and one half-spaces per family
Residential - multi-family                One space per dwelling unit
   Low income, elderly, or handicapped
occupants
                                          One space per apartment, plus one
Residential - condominium                 guest parking space for each five
                                          apartments
Residential - townhouse (except as        Two spaces per dwelling unit
provided above)
Residential - cluster houses              Two spaces per dwelling unit
Restaurant and bar                        One space per three seats
Retail store and shopping center          One space per 250 square feet gross
                                          floor area
Wholesale, warehousing, and manufacturing One space per 1000 square feet gross
                                          floor area
Provided, in a C-1 District, no off-street parking spaces are required
A fractional requirement of one-half or more requires an additional space; a
fractional requirement less than one-half does not
 
§ 25-5-2 EXCEPTIONS.
   If the Planning Commission finds from evidence submitted to it that fewer
parking stalls than this article otherwise requires are needed for any
permitted use, the Planning Commission may grant a permit to construct a
facility that meets the actual need for parking stalls though less than the
parking stalls generally required by this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4152, passed - -2015; Ord. 4313, passed 11-6-
2023)
§ 25-5-3 INCREASED USE; MOVED BUILDING.
   If a building or structure required to have an off-street parking facility
is increased in size, either by increasing the number of units by 15% or more,
or by increasing the building size by 15% or more, additional off-street
parking spaces shall be provided. If a building or structure is moved from one
lot or tract of land to another, parking facilities must be provided to the
same extent required for the construction of a new building or structure.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-4 LOCATION.
   An off-street parking facility must be provided by the owner or person in
possession of the premises which the facility is to serve, and shall be
situated on the premises to be served by the facility. Provided, the Planning
Commission may issue a special permit:
   (A)   For two or more lots or tracts of land to be served by one facility;
or
   (B)   For a facility to be developed or used on a lot or tract of land
(although such development or use otherwise would be prohibited by this
chapter) for the purpose of serving an adjoining lot or tract of land in
respect of which a special permit for a facility could be issued.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-5 SETBACK AREA.
   A required off-street parking facility may not be placed in a front or side
street building setback area, except as herein provided. A required off-street
parking facility may be placed in a front street building setback area in
Planned Business Center Districts.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-6 STALLS.
   Off-street parking stalls, designed so that each stall can function
independently of any other stall, shall meet the following minimum requirement:
 
Type      Width    Stall   Maneuvering Width
90 degree 10 feet  18 feet 26 feet
60 degree 10 feet  20 feet 20 feet
45 degree 9.5 feet 19 feet 14 feet
30 degree 9.5 feet 16 feet 12 feet
 
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-7 BACK-OUT PARKING.
   Back-out parking onto a public street is permitted only for single- and two-
family dwellings.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-8 PUBLIC ALLEY.
   A public alley may be used as part of the maneuvering space requirement if
the adjacent parking facilities are designed to utilize it as such.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-9 SURFACE.
   All-weather surfacing is required on all off-street parking, loading,
storage, sales, rental, and service areas for motor vehicles, including service
stations and used car lots.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-10 DRAINAGE.
   Drainage, meeting specifications approved by the Planning Commission, shall
be provided for an off-street parking facility.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-11 BUMPER CURBS.
   A raised bumper curb, not less than six inches high and not less than six
inches wide, shall be provided not less than 30 inches inside and parallel to
the property line of any lot or tract of land abutting a public street on an
off-street parking facility now existing or hereafter established.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-12 WALKWAYS.
   If a walkway is provided on an off-street parking facility between a
building and parking stalls, it must be at least 36 inches in width.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-13 FENCE AND SCREEN.
   A solid fence or suitable screen, not less than 48 inches in height, shall
be constructed and maintained on an off-street parking facility parallel and
adjacent to any line of the lot which is a common boundary line with any
adjoining lot that is in an R District.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-14 LIGHTING.
   If lighting is provided for an off-street parking facility, it shall be so
constructed that the lights shine away from residential areas and public
streets.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-15 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; CONDITION TO ISSUANCE.
   A certificate of occupancy may not be issued for any building or structure
until all off-street parking facility requirements have been met and are ready
for use.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-16 USES.
   An off-street parking facility may be used only for parking automobiles; no
sales activity, dead storage, repair work, dismantling, or servicing of any
kind may be conducted on such a facility. Provided, if the number of off-street
parking spaces provided on a lot or tract of land in an area zoned for
commercial use exceeds the number of such spaces required in this article,
merchandise may be offered for sale and sold on such excess spaces, and a truck
used to haul such merchandise may be parked on such spaces during hours when
the merchandise is being offered for sale.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-5-17 OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   Each retail trade, retail or wholesale market, warehouse, supply house,
wholesale and manufacturing business, hotel, hospital, laundry or dry cleaning
establishments, or both, and any other place at which large amounts of goods
are received or shipped, must have adequate off-street loading and unloading
facilities. For each building having 10,000 square feet of gross floor area,
one off-street loading space at least ten feet wide, 14 feet high, and 40 feet
long, must be provided on the premises. One additional such off-street loading
space must be provided for each additional 40,000 square feet of gross floor
area. No encroachment may be made on a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 6: SIGNS
Section
   
25-6-1   Intent
   
25-6-1.1   Definitions
   
25-6-1.2   General sign types
   
25-6-1.3   Calculating the sign area of a sign
   
25-6-1.4   General provisions
   
25-6-1.5   Off-premises signs
   
25-6-1.6   Sign tables
   
25-6-1.7   Churches, schools, and community playhouses
   
25-6-1.8   Murals
   
25-6-1.9   Nonresidential; permanent window signs
   
25-6-2.0   Maintenance of signs
   
25-6-2   R District
   
25-6-3   Public and semi-public facilities
   
25-6-4   A District
   
25-6-5   O-P District
   
25-6-6   Repealed
   
25-6-7   M-1 and M-2 Districts
   
25-6-8   Setbacks; generally
   
25-6-8.1   Temporary detached signs; where allowed; permit required; conditions
   
25-6-9   Residence subdivision identification; permit
   
25-6-10   R Districts
   
25-6-11   Directional signs
   
25-6-12   “For sale” and “sold” signs; R Districts
   
25-6-13   Advertising construction and financing; permit
   
25-6-14   Remodeling and repairing; if remodeling or repair permit required
   
25-6-15   If remodeling or repair permit not required
   
25-6-16   Signs; where required by law
   
25-6-16.1   Billboards; where permitted
   
25-6-16.2   Billboards; other regulations
   
25-6-16.3   Billboards and digital regulations
   
25-6-16.4   Nonconforming signs
   
25-6-17   Political signs; intent of regulation
   
25-6-18   Authorization; restrictions; requirements; general
   
25-6-19   Specifications; R, O-P, PBC, and A Districts
   
25-6-20   Sign placement; removal; time
   
25-6-21   Posting; consent of property owner; public rights-of-way and property
   
25-6-22   Signs in violation; notice
   
25-6-23   Signs in violation; removal
   
25-6-24   Signs inside buildings and structures
   
25-6-25   Placards; signs; bills; posting; printing; painting; prohibited
   
25-6-26   Handbills; posters; dropping; leaving; prohibited
   
25-6-27   Banners; placards; advertisements; carrying; for display; prohibited
   
25-6-28   Flags, banners, and temporary signs
   
25-6-29   Signs; prohibited; exceptions
   
25-6-30   Same; extending signs
   
25-6-31   Same; permit; application; determination; revocation
   
25-6-32   Signs; inspection; insecure; unsafe; owner; duty to repair or remove
   
25-6-33   Same; violations; nuisance; notice; removal
§ 25-6-1 INTENT.
   The regulations in this article govern the type, location, and subject
matter of signs and similar advertising media.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-1.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
   ANIMATION. The movement of any object or light used in conjunction with a
sign such as blinking, flashing, traveling, scrolling, or changing degree of
intensity of any light movement other than burning continuously.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. Any sign on which message copy can be changed through
the use of attachable letters and numerals or by electronic switching of lamps,
light emitting devices, or illuminated tubes. This includes public message
displays or any sign which features automatic switching such as time and
temperature signs.
   COMMERCIAL SIGN. Any sign which serves to advertise and/or identify a
product, service, or activity conducted on or off the premises on which the
sign is located.
   ELECTRIC SIGN. Any sign containing electrical wiring which is attached or
intended to be attached to an electrical energy source, but not including signs
illuminated by an exterior light source not an integral part of the sign.
   ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign containing a computer or digital
software generated message or other automated or remote method of changing
copy.
   ERECTED. Attached, altered, built, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, or
moved and shall include the painting of wall signs.
   FACADE. The portion of any exterior elevation of a building extending
vertically from the grade to the top parapet wall or eaves and horizontally
across the building in one plane of elevation. A FACADE may extend above the
roof line.
   FADE. A transition from one message to another by means of varying light
intensity, where the first message gradually reduces intensity to the point of
not being legible and/or gradually increases intensity to become legible.
   FLASHING/BLINKING/PULSATING SIGN. The interior or exterior of a sign which
contains flashing lights or exhibits noticeable changes in light intensity with
a basic on-off of the same light source or display pattern or which includes
the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by means of animation, or an
externally-mounted intermittent light source.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
anchored in the ground and that are independent from any building or other
structure.
   HEIGHT OF A SIGN. The distance between the lowest grade level within two
feet of either side of a sign, and the highest part of the sign or its support;
except that if the property was lower than the adjacent roadway, then the
height of the sign is to be calculated from the street grade at a 90 degree
angle from the sign.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which is directly lighted by any electrical light
source, internal or external, regardless of technology. This definition shall
not include signs which are illuminated by street lights or other light sources
owned by any public agency or light sources which are specifically operated for
the purpose of lighting the area in which the sign is located rather than the
sign itself.
   MARQUEE (CANOPY or AWNING). A protective shelter or overhang which projects
more than 24 inches from the face of a building that is otherwise permitted by
code or ordinance.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A sign attached to the face or on top or below a marquee.
   MOBILE SIGN. A sign designed and constructed to be transported by its own
wheels. When placed, a MOBILE SIGN must be supported by at least four integral
metal supports which raise the wheels off the ground. Such sign shall not
exceed ten feet in height.
   MONUMENT SIGN. Any freestanding sign in which the top edge of the sign is
six feet or less above grade.
   MURAL. An artistic image or design painted or affixed to the exterior
surface of a structure that does not contain a commercial text message,
graphic, or image.
   NIT. A unit of luminance equal to one candela (one candle) per square meter.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SIGN. Any sign that is not a commercial sign.
   NONSTRUCTURAL TRIM. The molding, battens, caps, nailing strips, latticing,
cutouts, or ladders and walkways which are attached to the sign structure.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign which serves to advertise a product, service, or
activity not conducted on the premises on which the sign is located or within
300 lineal feet thereof.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign which serves to advertise and/or identify a
product, service, or activity conducted on the premises on which the sign is
located, or identifies said premises or a use thereof.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   POLE SIGN. Any freestanding sign in which the top edge of the sign is more
than ten feet above grade.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign other than a wall sign which is attached to and
projects at an angle of not less than 45 degrees from a structure or building
face.
   PROJECTION. The distance by which a sign extends beyond a building or
structure.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. Any sign which identifies an offer to sell, rent, or lease
of the premises on which the sign is located.
   REVEAL. A message transition where portions of the message appear and/or
disappear sequentially.
   ROOF LINE. The uppermost exterior surface of the roof of a building.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign mounted on the main roof portion of a building or on the
top most edge of a parapet wall of a building; and which is wholly or partially
supported by such building. For the purpose of this chapter, signs mounted on
mansard facades, penthouse eaves, facades, and architectural projections, such
as canopies or marquees shall not be considered to be ROOF SIGNS. Signs mounted
on an ornamental attachment not used for shelter or protection of persons or
property, such as cupolas, shall be considered ROOF SIGNS.
   SCROLL or TRAVEL. A message transition where the message that is leaving or
appearing appears to move vertically or horizontally across the display
surface.
   SIGN. Any structure, fixture, graphics, illustration, statue, or other
device visible from off the premises designed or intended to advertise, to
identify, to attract attention to, or to convey information regarding any
goods, product, service, business, location, institution, activity, person,
solicitation, issue, or campaign, with the exception of merchandise window
displays, national, state or other state governmental subdivision flags, and
sculpture. For purposes of removal, SIGN shall also include any sign structure.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which is designed or used to support any sign
as defined in this chapter. A SIGN STRUCTURE may be a single pole and may or
may not be an integral part of the building.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any outdoor sign or device, including but not limited to
banners, pennants, flags, or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas,
light fabric, cardboard, or other light materials, with or without frames,
intended to be displayed for a limited period of time and which is not
permanently affixed; provided, that TEMPORARY SIGNS shall not include mobile
signs.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign painted on or attached to the wall or facade of a
building with the display surface parallel to or at an angle to which it is
attached, and which projects no more than 24 inches from the wall surface. No
WALL SIGN shall extend vertically or horizontally beyond the building facade
from which the sign is attached. A WALL SIGN may project into a right-of-way. A
WALL SIGN may be located at any height on a parapet or facade. A WALL SIGN may
be mounted on a mansard facade or penthouse facade.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign installed inside a window which can be viewed from
outside the premises and is six feet or less from the window or is located
within a window display area formed by walls or doors that block the view into
the main building.
§ 25-6-1.2 GENERAL SIGN TYPES.
   Figure 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0783407908d75783f018f97f9350015499280c1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.png]
 
§ 25-6-1.3 CALCULATING THE SIGN AREA OF A SIGN.
   The sign area of a double-faced sign or two-sided or three-sided V-type sign
not exceeding an angle of 60 degrees shall be calculated on one face of the
sign only. The sign area of a four-sided sign is to be calculated as two signs,
and the sign area of a triangular, three-sided sign shall be calculated on its
largest face.
   (A)   Freestanding sign. The sign area of a freestanding sign shall be
calculated by the area defined by the constructed or fabricated cabinet, panel,
or frame. If the sign consists of more than one section or module, all areas
will be totaled. If the sign does not have a defined cabinet, panel, or frame,
or the cabinet, panel, or frame is of an irregular shape, the sign area shall
be calculated the same as a wall sign
   ( B)   Wall sign. The sign area of a wall sign shall be calculated by using
up to a simple eight-sid ed geometric figure around the advertisi ng message
and shall include any framing or border.
   (C)   Marquee sign. The sign area of a marque sign shall be counted toward
the total allowable wall sign area of the parallel wall face to which the
marquee is attached; the sign area of a marquee sign attached perpendicular to
the wall shall be counted toward the allowed sign area of a projecting sign.
   Simple Geometric Figures - Figure 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0783407908d75783f018f97f9350015499280c1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.png]
 
   Calculating the Area of a Wall Sign - Examples - Figure 3
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0783407908d75783f018f97f9350015499280c1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.png]
 
Sign with a cabinet or panel - calculate the shaded area.
Sign made up of individual letters mounted on a wall - calculate the area
around each word.
Sign painted on a wall - calculate the painted area including the painted
background.
   Calculating the Area of a Sign Constructed with Panels or Cabinets -
Examples - Figure 4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0783407908d75783f018f97f9350015499280c1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.png]
 
The sum of the shaded area represents sign area.
   Calculat ing the Area of a Sign Without a Defined Panel or Cabinet or Signs
with an Irregular Shape - Examples - Figure 5
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0783407908d75783f018f97f9350015499280c1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.png]
 
The sign area is calculated by using up to a simple eight-sided geometric
figure around the advertising message and includes any frame or border. The
dotted line represents the calculated sign area.
§ 25-6-1.4 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in any other applicable
ordinance or regulation, no sign or part thereof shall be erected or maintained
in any zoning district except in conformance with these general provisions. The
general provisions apply to both on-premises and off-premises signs.
   (A)   Location, height, area, and other general requirements.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained in a required yard except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, or encroach upon or overhang any adjacent
property or public right-of-way.
      (2)   No sign shall be erected upon or against a roof or on top of the
parapet of a building.
      (3)   No sign shall exceed the maximum height permitted for buildings in
the zoning district in which the sign is located.
      (4)   Every sign shall be permanently attached to the ground, or to a
building or structure which is permanently attached to the ground, except for
mobile signs and temporary signs.
      (5)   No sign shall be painted on or attached to rocks, trees, or any
other natural object.
      (6)   No sign shall be erected, placed, or maintained in a location that
violates the site obstruction requirements for street intersections or
entrances or exits from private property.
      (7)   Every freestanding sign permitted on a “per frontage” basis shall
be allocated to and be located proximate to the specific frontage which would
authorize such sign.
      (8)   The required space between the location of any sign and an abutting
residential district shall be as follows:
         (a)   Fifty feet if non-illuminated; or
         (b)   One hundred feet if illuminated.
      (9) No sign shall move, rotate, revolve, or simulate animation by means
of spinning, fluttering, or reflective devices or lighting, except a sign may
rotate or revolve at a rate not to exceed six revolutions per minute.
      (10)   All freestanding signs must be spaced a minimum of 50 feet apart.
      (11)   No sign shall be erected, placed, or maintained in any location in
violation of the zoning regulations of the city.
      (12)   No person shall place, construct, or erect any sign which, by
reason of its size, location, movement, content, coloring, or manner of
illumination, may be confused with or construed as a traffic-control sign,
signal, or device, or the light of an emergency or road equipment vehicle.
      (13)   No person shall place, construct, or erect any sign which hides
from view any traffic-control sign or signal or device.
   (B)   Freestanding signs. See §
25-2-110 of this chapter.
   (C)   Wall signs. Wall signs are allowed in the C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, M-2 and
PBC Zoning Districts, subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   The wall sign shall not exceed 25 square feet in sign area per
architectural elevation nor be located on the side of the building abutting a
residential district or facing a local or collector street when the land across
the street is zoned residential.
      (2)   In all other allowed zoning districts, the wall sign shall have a
maximum sign area of 500 square feet.
      (3)   No wall sign or wall sign structure shall project into the right-
of-way.
 
Table (1) - Projection of Wall Signs
Clearance                  Maximum Projections
Less than 7'6" above grade 2-1/2 inches
Over 7'6" above grade      24 inches
 
   (D)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs are allowed in the C-1, C-2, C-3,
PBC, M-1, and M-2 Zoning Districts, subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   The projecting sign shall be in lieu of one freestanding sign;
      (2)   The projecting sign shall have a minimum ground clearance of eight
feet above the walk or grade below;
      (3)   The projecting sign shall not exceed 100 square feet in sign area;
and
      (4)   In the C-1, C-2, C-3, PBC, M-1, and M-2 Zoning Districts, the
projecting sign shall not exceed 25 square feet in sign area and such sign
shall not be located on the side of the building abutting a residential
district or facing a local or collector street when the land across the street
is zoned residential.
   (E)   Marquee signs. Marquee signs are allowed in all C, PBC, and M Zoning
Districts, subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   The marquee sign shall be designed so that sign support braces are
not visible from street level.
      (2)   The marquee sign shall not exceed three feet in height or the
height or vertical thickness of the marquee, whichever is greater.
   (F)   Electronic changeable copy signs. Electronic changeable copy signs are
allowed in all R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, C-1, C-2, C-3, PBC, O-P, M-1, and M-2 Zoning
Districts, subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   The sign area displaying electronic changeable messages shall not
exceed 100 square feet of sign area and such sign area shall be included as a
part of the total permitted signage for the premises on which it is located.
      (2)   No message on an electronic changeable copy sign shall be animated,
except in the C, PBC, O-P, and M Zoning Districts.
      (3)   Transition between messages are permitted but such transitions may
only fade, scroll, travel, or reveal, and the transition shall not exceed a
duration of one second.
      (4)   Illuminated electronic changeable copy signs shall be equipped with
a sensor and/or timer or other device approved by the Director of Development
Services to automatically adjust the day/night light intensity levels in
accordance with Figure 6 below.
      (5)    The sign in R-1, R-1a, R-1b, R-4, and R-6 Districts shall only be
allowed to operate and display for a church or public school or private school
and shall not be operated or displayed between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. daily.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0783407908d75783f018f97f9350015499280c1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-39.png]
 
   (G)   Illumination.
      (1)    In all nonresidential districts, signs may be illuminated, except
that the surface illumination of any sign shall not exceed the levels shown in
Figure 6 above for different conditions of ambient light.
      (2)    Lighted vending machines are not permitted in view from off the
premises in any residential zoning district.
   (H)   Mobile signs. Mobile signs identifying special sales and openings
shall be permitted on the premises of a commercial establishment for no more
than 60 days in any calendar year in districts where commercial establishments
are permitted subject to the following restrictions: the mobile sign shall not
exceed 60 square feet of sign area.
§ 25-6-1.5 OFF-PREMISES SIGNS.
   (A)   Off-premises signs are permitted in the PBC, O-P, C-1, C-2, C-3, and M
Zoning Districts. Provided, a copy of a signed lease or other verification that
the party has permission of the owner of the land upon which the off-premises
sign shall be located shall be provided to the Development Services Department.
   (B)   The minimum distance between an off-premises sign and a public
elementary or public high school, private school having a curriculum equivalent
to a public elementary or public high school, community college, park, or
cemetery shall be 600 feet measured in all directions regardless of the zoning
jurisdiction in which the public elementary or high school, private school
having a curriculum equivalent to a public elementary or public high school,
community college, park, or cemetery is located.
§ 25-6-1.6 SIGN TABLES.
Zoning    Type of Signs Number of Size Allowed  Height (Feet) Code Reference
Districts               Signs     (Sq. Ft.)
Zoning        Type of Signs Number of Size Allowed  Height (Feet) Code
Districts                   Signs     (Sq. Ft.)                   Reference
R-1, R-1a,    Name plate    1         1                           § 25-6-2(A)
and R-1b
R-4, R-6, and Name plate    1         2                           § 25-6-2(B)
AR
              Name plate    1         4                           § 25-6-2(C)
                                                                  §§
              Freestanding  1         40            4             25-6-3 and
                                                                  25-6-10
              Subdivision   2         35            3             §
              ID                                                  25-6-9
                                                                  §§
              Real estate   1         4                           25-6-12 and
                                                                  25-6-13
              “For sale”                                      §§
              and “sold”                                      25-6-14 and
                                                                  25-6-15
                                                                  §§
              Political               8             4             25-6-17 and
                                                                  25-6-24
              Electronic    1         40                          §
              church                                              25-6-18
A             Freestanding  2         30                          § 25-6-1.8
              Directional                           5             §
                                                                  25-6-11
                                                                  §§
              Political               8             4             25-6-17 and
                                                                  25-6-24
O-P           Wall          1         4 or 5% of                  §
                                      wall surface                25-6-6
              Freestanding  1         100           8
              Directional                           5             §
                                                                  25-6-11
                                                                  §§
              Political               8             4             25-6-17
                                                                  through
                                                                  25-6-24
              Electronic              100                         §
                                                                  25-6-1.4(F)
PBC           Attached      1 per                                 §
                            business                              25-6-6
              Projecting    **
                                                                  §§
              Detached      2+        250                         25-6-6 and
                                                                  25-6-8
              Directional                           5             §
                                                                  25-6-11
              Freestanding            100
                                                                  §§
              Political               8             4             25-6-17
                                                                  through
                                                                  25-6-24
              Electronic              100                         §
                                                                  25-6-1.4(F)
C-1 and C-2   Attached                                            §
                                                                  25-6-6
              Projecting    **
                                                                  §§
              Detached                                            25-6-6 and
                                                                  25-6-8
              Directional                           5             §
                                                                  25-6-11
              Freestanding            100
                                                                  §§
              Political               8             4             25-6-17
                                                                  through
                                                                  25-6-24
              Temporary
              detached 2-             20                          § 25-6-8.1
              year
              Electronic              100                         §
                                                                  25-6-1.4(F)
C-3           Attached                                            §
                                                                  25-6-6
              Projecting    **
              Detached                                            §
                                                                  25-6-6
              Directional                           5             §
                                                                  25-6-11
              Freestanding            100
                                                                  §§
              Political               8             4             25-6-17
                                                                  through
                                                                  25-6-24
              Temporary
              detached 2-             20                          § 25-6-8.1
              year
              Electronic              100                         §
                                                                  25-6-1.4(F)
              Billboards              288           45 above road § 25-6-16.2
M-1 and M-2   Attached                                            §
                                                                  25-6-6
              Projecting    **
              Detached                                            §
                                                                  25-6-6
              Directional                           5             §
                                                                  25-6-11
              Freestanding            100
                                                                  §§
              Political               8             4             25-6-17
                                                                  through
                                                                  25-6-24
              Temporary
              detached 2-             20                          § 25-6-8.1
              year
              Electronic              100                         §
                                                                  25-6-1.4(F)
              Billboards              288           45 above      § 25-6-16.2
                                                    ground
**   100 square feet unless abutting residential zone, then 25 square feet.
Digital billboards will be regulated according to §§ 25-6-16.3 and 25-6-16.4
and not as set forth above on this sign table.
In such zones, no attached or extended sign may, in whole or in part, project
above or be higher than the roof line or a parapet. Signs may disclose the
name of the building and the nature of the occupancy; provided, in a PBC
District, not more than one sign visible from a pubic street may be mounted on
a building for each business using the building, or a part of it. In a PBC
District, detached signs not exceeding 250 square feet in area each and which
only identify the planned business center or businesses within the center, or
both, may be erected or maintained; provided, if the planned business center
abuts a particular street for a distance in excess of 500 feet, one additional
detached sign per each additional 250 feet, or part thereof, of such distance
may be erected or maintained. In any C-3 District, any billboard shall be
located not less than 150 feet from a residence building.
 
Billboards
District Attached Extending Detached
PBC      X        X         X
C-1      X        X         X
C-2      X        X         X
C-3      X        X         X
 
(Ord. 4238, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 25-6-1.7 CHURCHES, SCHOOLS, AND COMMUNITY PLAYHOUSES.
   (A)   On-premises in a residential zone on which is situated, a building
occupied or used as a church, public community center, library, hospital,
lodge, club, school (except nursery school), other educational or charitable
institution, or fire station, or on-premises in such a zone which are used by
the city as a park or campground, there may be erected a freestanding sign, not
exceeding four feet in height above the ground and 40 square feet in area, on
which is displayed the name and address of the occupant or user of the premises
and its meeting schedule, if any, and which is illuminated by non-flashing and
non-blinking lighting which, as determined by the Development Services
Director, does not shine directly upon any other premises and does not
constitute a traffic hazard.
   (B)   A permitted freestanding sign fronting on an arterial street may
include electronic changeable copy if it meets the following conditions and
requirements:
      (1)   Total area of the electronic changeable copy sign shall not exceed
75% of the total allowed freestanding sign area; and
      (2)   The electronic changeable copy sign message shall hold for at least
three seconds and transition to a new message shall not exceed a duration of
one second.
§ 25-6-1.8 MURALS.
   In all zoning districts, murals, exclusive of any sign area, painted on
walls of a building, fence, or similar structure shall be permitted; provided
that a permit therefor is obtained from the Development Services Director and
that such mural shall not interfere with traffic or present any other hazard or
detriment to the public health, safety, or general welfare. The murals shall be
maintained properly, to include correcting any peeling or fading of paint, and
to repair the mural if maintenance is required.
§ 25-6-1.9 NONRESIDENTIAL; PERMANENT WINDOW SIGNS.
   In all nonresidential zoning districts, permanent window signs shall be
permitted; provided that such signing does not cover more than 25% of the area
of any window or door.
§ 25-6-2.0 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   All signs shall be continuously maintained in a state of security, safety,
and repair, and shall be painted at reasonable intervals. If any sign is found
not to be so maintained or is in need of painting or repair, it shall be the
duty of the owner and occupant of premises to repair, paint, or remove the
signs within ten days after receiving written notice to do so from the Director
of Development Services. If the sign is not so repaired, painted, or removed
within such time, the Director of Development Services shall have the power to
cause the sign to be removed at the expense of the owner of the premises.
§ 25-6-2 R DISTRICT.
   In a residential zone, signs or nameplates visible from the exterior of the
building or structure may be displayed as follows:
   (A)   One nameplate not exceeding one square foot in area, designating the
name of the occupants, may be displayed on a single-family dwelling or a
duplex;
   (B)   One nameplate not exceeding two square feet in area, designating the
name of the building, may be displayed on an apartment or boarding house; or
   (C)   One nameplate not exceeding four square feet in area, designating the
name, the occupants, and a meeting schedule (if any), may be displayed on any
building not used primarily for residence purposes. All signs or nameplates in
such a zone must be placed flat against a building and displayed without
illumination, except as otherwise provided in §
25-6-3 of this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-3 PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   On-premises in a residential zone, on which is situated a building lawfully
occupied or used as a church, public community center, library, hospital,
lodge, club, school (except nursery school), other educational or charitable
institution, or fire station, or on-premises in such a zone which are used by
the city as a park or campground, there may be erected a freestanding sign, not
exceeding four feet in height above the ground and 40 square feet in area, on
which is displayed the name and address of the occupant or user of the premises
and its meeting schedule, if any, and which is illuminated by non-flashing and
non-blinking lighting which, as determined by the Development Services
Director, does not shine directly upon any other premises and does not
constitute a traffic hazard.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-4 A DISTRICT.
   In an A District, not more than two signs, which do not exceed a total area
of 30 square feet each, may be displayed to show the name of the owner, or the
name of the tract of land, or both, or the products produced on the tract of
land.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-5 O-P DISTRICT.
   In an O-P District, the following signs designating the name of the building
or the name of one or more occupants of the building, or both, may be erected:
   (A)   Signage not to exceed more than 5% of the total wall area or four
square feet, whichever is greater, to be located on the street frontage. The
sign may not, in whole or in part, project above or be higher than the roof
line or parapet. Signs may disclose the name of the building, occupants, and
the nature of the occupancy; or
   (B)   One freestanding sign not exceeding 100 square feet in area and eight
feet in height above grade. Such signs may be illuminated.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4013, passed - -2010)
§ 25-6-6 REPEALED.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4148, passed - -)
§ 25-6-7 M-1 AND M-2 DISTRICTS.
   In an M-1 or M-2 District, a billboard or other signs may be erected. In any
M-1 District, no attached or extended sign may, in whole or in part, project
above or be higher than roof line or a parapet.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-8 SETBACKS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Detached signs not exceeding in height the building height limitation
of the zone in which the sign is located may be erected in a front setback area
in any zone except a residential or O-P District; provided, signs which conform
to the requirements in §
25-6-10 of ths article may be erected in a front setback area in a residential
zone.
   (B)   Detached signs shall not:
      (1)   Obstruct or impair pedestrian or motorist vision;
      (2)   Obstruct neighboring signs or adjoining lots or tracts of land; or
      (3)   Be erected within a triangular area bounded by the property lines
of the lot or tract abutting two intersecting streets and a line connecting a
point on each such property line that is 20 feet from the point of intersection
of such lot lines; provided, extending or freestanding signs, the lowest part
of which is not less than ten feet above the finish grade may be erected in
such triangle area in any zone except a residential or O-P District.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-8.1 TEMPORARY DETACHED SIGNS; WHERE ALLOWED; PERMIT REQUIRED;
CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Upon obtaining a permit from the City Planner, a temporary detached
sign may be erected in a C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, or M-2 District, subject to the
following provisions:
      (1)   Such sign shall not exceed 20 square feet in area;
      (2)   Such signs are prohibited in any public right-of-way, including
streets, sidewalks, parks, and public facilities;
      (3)   Such signs shall comply with the provisions of §
25-6-8 of this article;
      (4)   The applicant shall pay the fee specified in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code of ordinances; and
      (5)   The permit shall be conspicuously displayed on the premises.
   (B)   The number of temporary detached signs on a lot is subject to
following limitations.
      (1)   A permit may be issued for two temporary detached signs for a
period of one year.
      (2)   An additional 30-day permit may be issued for not to exceed three
additional temporary detached signs. No more than two such permits may be
issued for a lot in a calendar year.
   (C)   No permit shall be required for the following temporary detached
signs:
      (1)   Political signs;
      (2)   Signs advertising for an occasional sale of personal property to be
conducted at the home of the seller, commonly called a “garage sale;”
      (3)   Signs on property occupied by a church;
      (4)   “For sale,” “sold,” and advertising construction signs as described
elsewhere in this chapter; and
      (5)   Signs advertising goods or services offered by a non-profit
organization.
(Ord. 3831, passed - -2005)
§ 25-6-9 RESIDENCE SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION; PERMIT.
   Anything in §
25-6-8 of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Planning Commission
may grant a special permit for the erection and maintenance of one or two
subdivision identification signs at each collector or arterial street entrance
to a subdivision in a residence zone. The area of such a sign or, if there be
two signs, the aggregate area of the two signs at a particular entrance shall
not exceed 35 square feet; provided, further, no such sign(s) exceeding 36
inches in height may be erected within a triangular area bounded on two sides
by the intersecting right-of-way lines of the two abutting streets and on the
third side by a line connecting a point on each such boundary line which is 20
feet from the point of such intersection. The sign(s) shall identify the
subdivision by name or symbol only, and may have indirect illumination. The
sign shall be maintained in good condition by the owner at all times.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-10 R DISTRICTS.
   Freestanding signs which conform to the requirements prescribed in §
25-6-3 of this article may be erected as herein provided in a setback area of
premises in a residential zone which are of a type described in that section.
Such a sign, if erected in a front setback area of a lot or tract of land which
is not a corner lot or tract, shall be erected not closer to the front property
line than one-half of the distance from the property line to the front setback
line or, if the lot or tract of land is a corner lot or tract, shall not be
erected within a triangular area bounded by the property lines of the lot or
tract abutting the two intersecting streets and a line connecting a point on
each such property line that is 30 feet from the point of intersection of such
lot lines.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-11 DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.
   Directional signs not exceeding five feet in height above finish grade may
be erected in a front yard setback area in any zone except a residential zone;
provided, such signs shall also conform to the requirements in §
25-6-8(A), (B), and (C) of this article.
§ 25-6-12 “FOR SALE,” AND “SOLD” SIGNS; R DISTRICTS.
   (A)   A single “for sale” sign may be erected upon a single lot or tract
being advertised for sale in a residence zone, and a single “sold” sign may be
erected upon such a lot or tract after sale. Such sign shall not exceed four
square feet in area.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may grant a special permit for the erection of
a temporary sign or billboard to advertise the sale of lots or tracts of land
in a new residence subdivision, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The sign or billboard may contain advertising disclosing the name
of the developer, the name of a real estate agent selling lots or tracts of
land in the subdivision, or the services provided by the developer, but may not
contain advertising not pertaining to the sale of lots or tracts of land in the
subdivision.
      (2)   A sign or billboard erected or maintained in a unit of a
subdivision may not contain advertising pertaining to another unit of the same
subdivision.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may not authorize the erection of a sign or
billboard which the Planning Commission finds will interfere with or create a
hazard to traffic.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may fix the size of the sign or billboard
having due regard for the distance it is situated from the street, but in no
event may the sign or billboard exceed 120 square feet in area.
      (5)   The sign or billboard may not be illuminated. Such a permit may not
be granted for more than one year, but may be renewed by the Planning
Commission for periods not exceeding one year each on written application made
at least 30 days before the permitted period expires.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-13 ADVERTISING CONSTRUCTION AND FINANCING; PERMIT.
   A sign or billboard advertising the construction, and a sign advertising the
financing of construction, of a new building or structure may be erected upon
the premises on which the building or structure is to be constructed for not to
exceed one year after the date of the building permit; provided, the Planning
Commission may grant a special permit to maintain such a sign for further
periods not exceeding one year each on written application made at least 30
days before the permitted period expires. In any area zoned for residential
use, the sign or billboard shall not exceed 36 square feet in area. The sign or
billboard may state the name of the owner of the premises, the services
provided by the owner, and the names of contractors, subcontractors,
architects, engineers, and the institution or person by whom construction is
being financed in whole or in part, but may not contain advertising or
information not pertaining to the premises.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-14 REMODELING AND REPAIRING; IF REMODELING OR REPAIR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   In case of remodeling or repair of a building or structure for which a
permit is required, a sign advertising the remodeling or repair, and a sign
advertising the financing of remodeling or repair, of the building or structure
may be erected upon the premises on which the building or structure is situated
for not to exceed 21 days after the date of the permit; provided, the
Development Services Director may grant a permit to maintain such sign(s) for a
further period not exceeding 30 days on written application made not less than
five days before the permitted period expires. In any area zoned for
residential use, the sign(s) shall not exceed 16 square feet in area each. The
sign(s) may include names of contractors, subcontractors, architects, and
engineers, and of the institution or person by whom the remodeling or repair is
being financed in whole or in part, but may not contain advertising or
information not pertaining to the premises.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-15 IF REMODELING OR REPAIR PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   If no permit is required for remodeling or repair work being done on a
building or structure, a sign or signs of the type and on the premises referred
to in §
25-6-14 of this article may be erected and maintained upon compliance with the
requirements of this section. An application for a temporary permit for such
sign(s) shall be made to the Development Services Director in such form as the
Director may prescribe, but no fee shall be payable for the permit. Such a
permit shall be effective for a period of 21 days; provided, the Director may
grant an extension of the permit for a further period not exceeding 30 days on
written application made not less than five days before the permit expires.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-16 SIGNS; WHERE REQUIRED BY LAW.
   Signs that are required by law may be erected without securing a special
permit.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-16.1 BILLBOARDS; WHERE PERMITTED.
   (A)   Billboards are allowed only in the zones indicated in
Article 3 of this chapter, and within such zones, only in the following
locations:
      (1)   On the east or north side of U.S. Highway 26, between East Overland
Drive and State Highway 71;
      (2)   On either side of McClellan Expressway (East Bypass Highway 71)
north of its intersection with the Burlington Northern Railroad right-of-way;
      (3)   On Avenue I Street north of U.S. Highway 26 to East 42nd Street on
both sides of the street;
      (4)   On Avenue I between U.S. Highway 26 and East 42nd Street on both
sides of the street;
      (5)   On U.S. Highway 26 between Avenue I Street and going west to 42nd
Street (County Road J) on both sides of the highway; and
      (6)   Notwithstanding divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above, if the owner
of a billboard located in a place where billboards are not allowed by this
section removes the billboard, that owner may, subject to the other regulations
applicable to billboards, install a billboard in any of the following
locations:
         (a)   In any location permitted in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above;
         (b)   On the west side of U.S. Highway 26, south of East Overland
Drive extended east; and
         (c)   On the east side of McClellan Expressway (East Bypass Highway
71) between the North Platte River and the intersection with the Burlington
Northern Railroad right-of-way.
   (B)   Billboards erected near Highway 26 or Highway 71 must be located
within 100 feet of the right-of-way of such highways.
   (C)   No billboard may be erected closer than 300 feet to any R District.
§ 25-6-16.2 BILLBOARDS; OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The top of a billboard may not be more than 45 feet above the roadway
grade level.
   (B)   No billboard may exceed 288 square feet in size.
   (C)   No billboard is allowed at a distance less than 1,000 feet from any
other billboard on the same side of the roadway, provided however, that
billboards may be placed back to back where the separation of panels does not
exceed ten feet.
   (D)   Billboards must be erected on a dark colored monopole.
   (E)   No double faced stacked billboards or billboards placed on top of a
building are allowed.
   (F)   All billboards must be maintained in good repair and meet all city and
state regulations.
   (G)   In addition to other applicable requirements, an applicant for a
permit to erect a billboard shall furnish to the Development Services
Department:
      (1)   Footing and structure details and a computer generated drawing of
the proposed billboard; and
      (2)   A letter of review of the billboard location from the Nebraska
Department of Roads.
§ 25-6-16.3 BILLBOARDS AND DIGITAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Illumination. A billboard may be illuminated, provided such
illumination is consistent with the requirements for a digital billboard as set
forth herein, or is concentrated on the surface of the billboard and is located
so as to avoid glare or reflection onto any portion of an adjacent street or
highway, the path of oncoming vehicles or any adjacent premises.
   (B)   Appearance. All billboards must be stationary and may not contain any
visible moving parts, alternating or moving messages, or have the appearance of
having moving parts or messages. Under no circumstances may any type of
billboard contain a message or display that appears to flash, undulate, pulse,
move, or portray explosions, fireworks, flashes of light or blinking lights, or
otherwise appears to move toward or away from the viewer, expand or contract,
bounce, rotate, spin, twist, or make other comparable movements.
   (C)   Construction and maintenance. A billboard shall be constructed in such
fashion that it will withstand all wind and vibration forces that can normally
be expected to occur in the vicinity and in compliance with all applicable
codes. A billboard shall be maintained so as to assure proper alignment of
structure, continued structural soundness, and continued readability.
   (D)   Cap and replacement. Two to one replacement of off-premises billboard
signage must be removed for every one square foot installed (see §
25-6-16.4 of this article).
   (E)   Display.
      (1)   The display or message on a digital billboard, of any type, may
change no more frequently than once every ten seconds, with a transition period
of two seconds or less. Distance between - 5,000 feet.
      (2)   The display or message must otherwise comply with division (B)
above and the digital billboard must have installed an ambient light monitor
which shall continuously monitor and automatically adjust the brightness level
of the display based on ambient light condition consistent with terms of this
chapter.
      (3)   Maximum brightness levels for digital billboards shall not exceed
two-tenths foot candles over ambient light levels measured within 150 feet of
the sign. Certification must be provided to the city demonstrating that the
sign has been preset to automatically adjust the brightness to these levels or
lower. Re-inspection and recalibration shall be annually required by the city,
in its reasonable discretion, at the applicant/owners expense to ensure that
the specified brightness levels are maintained at all times.
      (4)   Brightness of digital billboards shall be measured as follows:
         (a)   At least 30 minutes following sunset, a foot candle meter shall
be used to obtain an ambient light reading for the location. This is done while
the sign is off or displaying black copy. The reading shall be made with the
meter aimed directly at the sign area at the pre-set location;
         (b)   The sign shall then be turned on to full white copy to take
another reading with the meter at the same location; and
         (c)   If the difference between the readings is 0.2 candles or less,
the brightness is properly adjusted.
   (F)   Other applicable laws. A billboard must comply with all applicable
provisions of federal and state law.
§ 25-6-16.4 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   All nonconforming signs shall be brought into compliance when one or more of
the following occurs:
   (A)   When the sign is damaged by any means in excess of 60% of its
replacement value at the time such damage occurs; or
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, the owner of an nonconforming off-premises
sign with side by side faces in one direction, may replace said sign provided
that:
      (1)   The replacement sign shall have not less than 200 square feet or
more than 288 square feet per face;
      (2)   The sign structure for the replacement sign shall utilize a
monopole design that is structurally rated to accommodate the replacement sign;
      (3)   If the replacement sign is illuminated by reflected lighting, the
lighting shall be provided by down lighting methods or in accordance with
digital lighting regulations if a digital display face is utilized;
      (4)   The replacement sign shall be located a minimum distance of 150
feet from a residential district, park, or cemetery when facing such district,
park, or cemetery; or
      (5)   The replacement sign will be installed within 180 days of the
removal of the existing off-premises sign being replaced.
§ 25-6-17 POLITICAL SIGNS; INTENT OF REGULATION.
   The intent and purpose of the regulations in this article pertaining to
political signs is to allow a maximum of political expression by such means
which is compatible with significant interests of the public and of individuals
in the protection of the right of privacy of individuals and the quiet and
undisturbed enjoyment of property, and which will prevent practices commonly
associated with the placement of such signs which are not conducive to the
public health, safety, and welfare, including but not limited to trespassing
upon private property, placement without permission of the property owner,
placement in such manner as to make removal difficult, hazards to traffic
because of size, location, or proliferation, aesthetically displeasing impact
in residential areas, littering caused by dislodged signs, and delay in removal
of non-removal of signs after an election.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-18 AUTHORIZATION; RESTRICTIONS; REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL.
   Political signs are permissible in any zoning district, subject to
compliance with:
   (A)   The restrictions and requirements contained in §§
25-6-18 through
25-6-24 of this article; and
   (B)   The restrictions and requirements contained in §§ 25-6-2,
25-6-6, and
25-6-8 of this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-19 SPECIFICATIONS; R, O-P, PBC, AND A DISTRICTS.
   No political sign in any R, O-P, PBC, or A District shall exceed eight
square feet in total area; provided a double-faced sign may have such area on
both sides. No political sign, unless within a building or enclosed structure,
shall have an overall height in excess of four feet. No political sign shall be
specially lighted, either directly or indirectly.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-20 SIGN PLACEMENT; REMOVAL; TIME.
   No political sign shall be erected or displayed sooner than 45 days prior to
the date of the election to which the sign pertains, and every such sign shall
be removed by the applicant within ten days after the election.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-21 POSTING; CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER; PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND
PROPERTY.
   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to authorize the posting or
display of political signs upon:
   (A)   Private property without the consent of the person(s) in possession or
control thereof; or
   (B)   The right-of-way of any public street, alley, or other public way, or
upon any property owned by, or in the possession or control of, any
governmental subdivision or agency.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-22 SIGNS IN VIOLATION; NOTICE.
   If a political sign shall have been placed without compliance or, as the
case may be, shall not have been removed in compliance, with an applicable
provision in this article, the Development Services Director shall cause
written notice specifying the violation and ordering removal of the sign within
three days after the date of the order, to be personally served or, as the case
may be, mailed to the person(s) who erected the sign, if known or if not known;
to the person(s) in possession of the premises, if known or if not known; or to
the owner(s) of record of the premises. It shall be unlawful for the person(s)
to whom such an order is directed to fail to comply with the order.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-23 SIGNS IN VIOLATION; REMOVAL.
   The event of refusal or failure to remove a political sign on the part of
the person(s) to whom an order to remove the sign has been directed as provided
in this article, the Director or Code Administrator II may enter upon the
premises and remove the sign if situated in a yard not wholly enclosed within a
fence, including a closed gate, and if such entry will not violate any
provision in §§
13-2-9 or
13-2-10 of this code of ordinances. After such officer shall have removed such
a sign, he or she shall cause it to be transported to the office of the
Department of Planning, Building, and Development, where it shall be held for a
period of 30 days, during which it may be claimed and received by a person
entitled to possession of the sign, as determined by the Director or Code
Administrator II. If the sign shall remain not claimed and received, as
provided in this section, after such period, the Director shall cause the sign
to be destroyed.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-24 SIGNS INSIDE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   The restrictions and requirements contained in the preceding sections shall
not apply to any political sign placed inside a building or enclosed structure.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-6-25 PLACARDS; SIGNS; BILLS; POSTING; PRINTING; PAINTING; PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to post,
print, paint, or in any other manner place upon any sidewalk, crossing or
crosswalk, or other way or passage for the use of pedestrians or upon any
pavement in any street or alley in the city any placard, sign, advertisement,
display bill, letter, or kindred matter of any kind or description, unless
permitted by a Planning and Development Official pursuant to §
20-6-1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 4129, passed - -2014)
§ 25-6-26 HANDBILLS; POSTERS; DROPPING; LEAVING; PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
throw, cast, or put into, drop, or leave in any street, alley, sidewalk,
parking, or public place any handbill, poster, or other advertising or printed
matter of any kind or description.
§ 25-6-27 BANNERS; PLACARDS; ADVERTISEMENTS; CARRYING; FOR DISPLAY; PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons shall carry any banner, placard, or advertisement for
the purpose of displaying the same in or upon any street, sidewalk, or public
place within the city, provided, however, that this restriction shall not apply
to banners, placards, or advertisements advertising goods or services offered
by a non-profit organization.
§ 25-6-28 FLAGS, BANNERS, AND TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Unless prohibited by §
25-6-25 of this article, flags and banners of a non-commercial nature may be
attached to poles set in concrete or in the ground in a street right-of-way in
a non-residential area. All flags, banners, and temporary signs placed pursuant
to this section shall:
      (1)   Be securely attached to a pole or cable;
      (2)   Not be hung so as to come in contact with cars parked in designated
parking areas or with pedestrians using sidewalks or persons getting in or out
of parked vehicles; and
      (3)   Be removed as soon as torn or damaged.
   (B)   Subject to the above restrictions, flags and banners may also be
attached to cables attached to poles with the approval of the City Council as
long as the flags and banners do not at any point hang less than 12 feet above
a city street and are being placed during and in conjunction with an event
described in §
20-6-52 of this article.
   (C)   The City Manager, or any city employee designated by the City Manager
to enforce the provisions of this chapter, may require a flag, banner, pole, or
cable to be removed or modified if it creates a hazard to pedestrians or
vehicles.
§ 25-6-29 SIGNS; PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect or
install any sign, signpost advertisement, signpost, or other form of sign
support, or any part thereof, upon or in such manner as to project wholly or in
part over the right-of-way of any street or avenue (including but not limited
to, any sidewalk or sidewalk area) or alley of the city, or to permit any such
sign owned or leased by such person, firm, or corporation to remain, except as
hereinafter provided.
§ 25-6-30 SAME; EXTENDING SIGNS.
   An existing sign which extends over the right-of-way of any street or avenue
may be maintained, and a permit may be issued for the erection, remodeling, or
replacement of a sign which so extends only if the sign meets, or after
remodeling or replacement will meet, all of the following requirements, as
determined by the City Planner:
   (A)   The sign is attached only to, and supported only by, a building that
is situated on a lot or tract of land concerning which there exists no
restrictive building setback line of record, and that also abuts, at the point
of attachment of the sign, the right-of-way line of the street or avenue;
   (B)   The sign is situated not less than ten feet above the surface of the
sidewalk, or sidewalk area, and no part of the sign projects beyond a point
which is perpendicularly above a point that is less than three feet distant
from the rear line of the curb or, if there is no curb, from an extension of
the rear line of the nearest curb; and
   (C)   The sign is or, as the case may be, will be safe and secure, and will
not constitute a hazard to persons or vehicles on the street, avenue, sidewalk,
or sidewalk area.
§ 25-6-31 SAME; PERMIT; APPLICATION; DETERMINATION; REVOCATION.
   Before erecting, remodeling, or replacing any sign that will extend over any
street, avenue, sidewalk, or sidewalk area, a written permit therefor shall be
obtained from the City Planner. In order to obtain such a permit, the person,
firm, or corporation wishing to erect remodel or replace the sign shall file
with the official a written application for a permit, which application shall
provide full information as to size, weight, and character of the sign, its
height above the surface of the sidewalk or sidewalk area, and the distance of
its outer edge from the rear line of the curb or, if there is no curb, from an
extension of the rear line of the nearest curb together with drawings or other
data showing the nature and location of the building to which the sign will be
attached, and the method of securing and fastening the sign. If the City
Planner shall find that the sign will comply with all of the requirements of
this article, he or she may issue the permit; otherwise, he or she shall deny
the application. Any such permit, if issued, shall be revocable by the City
Planner at any time, upon a determination by him or her that the sign does not
comply with all the requirements of this article as then existing.
§ 25-6-32 SIGNS; INSPECTION; INSECURE; UNSAFE; OWNER; DUTY TO REPAIR OR REMOVE.
   All such signs shall be periodically inspected by the City Planner. If it
appears to the City Planner that any sign is insecure or unsafe, it shall be
ordered made safe or removed forthwith by the person maintaining the sign.
§ 25-6-33 SAME; VIOLATIONS; NUISANCE; NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Every sign, sign box, advertisement. or signpost erected or maintained in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and shall be removed by the City Planner at the expense of the owner
thereof after one day’s notice to such owner to remove such sign.
ARTICLE 7: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
25-7-1   Intent and purposes
(a) General Development Standards
   
25-7-2   Development standards; general requirement
   
25-7-3   Development site; compatibility, accessibility, and ownership
   
25-7-4   Density
   
25-7-5   Individual use areas; size
   
25-7-6   Buildings; coverage
   
25-7-7   Setbacks
   
25-7-8   Height
   
25-7-9   Private storage areas
   
25-7-10   Vehicular storage
   
25-7-11   Other accessory uses
   
25-7-12   Walls and fences
   
25-7-13   Streets and drives; adequacy; primary drives, secondary drives, and
drives serving garages
   
25-7-14   Vehicular access to development site, on-site parking areas, and
individual dwelling units
   
25-7-15   Pedestrian circulation system
   
25-7-16   Vehicular, pedestrian access, and circulation; plans; modification
   
25-7-17   Open spaces; common
   
25-7-18   Dedicated recreational areas
   
25-7-19   Lighting
   
25-7-20   Landscaping; requirements; inspection
   
25-7-21   Signs; required and permitted signs
   
25-7-22   Appearance standards
   
25-7-23   Sanitary sewer and water systems
   
25-7-24   Storm drainage systems
   
25-7-25   Fire hydrant system
   
25-7-26   Utility and cable television services
   
25-7-27   Trash collection areas
   
25-7-28   Laundry areas
   
25-7-29   Mail delivery
   
25-7-30   Recommendations; Planning Commission
(b) Condominium Property
   
25-7-31   Condominium property regulations; applicability; scope; purpose
   
25-7-32   Accessory uses
   
25-7-33   Condominium property regime; established; when
   
25-7-34   Setbacks; public street, other vehicular accessways, and abutting
property line
   
25-7-35   Building separation
   
25-7-36   Floor area
   
25-7-37   Buildings; size; exterior design
   
25-7-38   Off-street parking
   
25-7-39   Common open space
(c) Townhouses
   
25-7-40   Townhouses; regulations; applicability, scope, and purpose
   
25-7-41   Lots; area
   
25-7-42   Lot, width
   
25-7-43   Setback; side
   
25-7-44   Floor area
   
25-7-45   Buildings; size; exterior design
   
25-7-46   Off-street parking
   
25-7-47   Common open spaces
(d) Cluster Housing
   
25-7-48   Cluster housing; regulations; applicability, scope, and purpose
   
25-7-49   Lots; area
   
25-7-50   Lot width
   
25-7-51   Setback; front
   
25-7-52   Setback; side
   
25-7-53   Setback; rear
   
25-7-54   Floor area
   
25-7-55   Off-street parking
(e) Mobile Home Planned Unit Development
   
25-7-56   Mobile home planned unit developments; regulations; applicability,
scope, and purpose
   
25-7-57   Lots; area
   
25-7-58   Site; area; frontage; density
   
25-7-59   Setbacks
   
25-7-60   Accessory buildings
   
25-7-61   Off-street parking
   
25-7-62   Other requirements
(f) Special Permits
   
25-7-63   Special permit; zoning modifications
   
25-7-64   Preliminary plan; conceptual review
   
25-7-65   Application for special permit; filing; fee
   
25-7-66   Application; form; content
   
25-7-67   Additional documents; condominium property
   
25-7-68   Additional documents; non-condominium property
   
25-7-69   Concurrent applications
   
25-7-70   Ability to perform; construction schedule
   
25-7-71   Recommendation by Director
   
25-7-72   Bond
   
25-7-73   Special permit; provisions
   
25-7-74   Special permit; duration; building permit; construction
   
25-7-75   Special permit; renewal
   
25-7-76   Special permit; transfer
(g) Construction and Occupancy
   
25-7-77   Construction; completion
   
25-7-78   Grading; notice; inspection; certification
   
25-7-79   Landscaping; notice; inspection; certification
   
25-7-80   Occupancy; permit
(h) Tiny Home Community Planned Unit Development
   
25-7-81   Generally
   
25-7-82   Definition of tiny house; lots; area
   
25-7-83   Site; area; frontage; density
   
25-7-84   Setbacks
   
25-7-85   Accessory buildings
   
25-7-86   Off-street parking
   
25-7-87   Other requirements
§ 25-7-1 INTENT AND PURPOSES.
   The City Council finds that planned unit developments differ in various
significant respects from other types of land ownership, development and use,
and that such developments therefore require certain different regulations. The
general intent and purposes of this article are to establish standards and
procedures for planned unit developments, including standards and procedures
that are more flexible than those which are prescribed by conventional zoning
regulations, whereby sufficiently large and properly located land areas can be
developed in accordance with innovative and imaginative land planning concepts
in a manner that will best serve both private and public interests. More
particularly, but without limitation of the above generalities, the intent and
purposes of this article are:
   (A)   To permit greater flexibility in the design of integrated
developments;
   (B)   To encourage the design of varieties of housing and other land uses in
such developments;
   (C)   To encourage reservation of greater proportions of open spaces for
visual purposes and recreational uses;
   (D)   To assure, in the process, that population density and building
density and bulk conform to the general objectives of the city’s zoning and
subdivision regulations and its comprehensive development plan; and
   (E)   To facilitate accomplishment of these objectives through planned unit
developments of various types.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(a) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 25-7-2 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS; GENERAL REQUIREMENT.
   All residential planned unit developments shall be designed to meet all of
the general development standards concerning open space, circulation, off-
street parking, height, coverage, bulk, and other conditions prescribed in this
subdivision (a) of this article in such manner as to form a harmonious,
integrated project of sufficient unity to justify exception to the general
requirements of this chapter. In addition, the planned unit development shall
meet the development standards prescribed in other parts of this article which
by their terms are applicable to planned unit developments of the type in
question.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-3 DEVELOPMENT SITE; COMPATIBILITY, ACCESSIBILITY, AND OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Compatibility. The location and arrangement of structures, parking
areas, drives, walks and fences, lighting, signing, and appurtenant facilities
in a planned unit development shall be compatible with the surrounding land
uses. The development shall not impose an undue burden on public services and
facilities, such as fire and public services, or on the local school system.
   (B)   Accessibility. The total development site shall be accessible from
public roads or streets, or both, that are adequate to carry the traffic that
will be imposed upon them by the proposed development.
   (C)   Ownership. The entire block, lot, or tract of land to be occupied by
the development shall be held in a single ownership or control.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-4 DENSITY.
   Density standards prescribed in this chapter for the zone in which the
development is located shall apply, unless the Planning Commission shall find
that authorization of a greater density in development as provided in this
article will provide greater open space and other desirable features which are
not regularly required for the zone; provided, the Planning Commission may not
authorize a density within the development exceeding 150% of the density
authorized by ordinance in the zone in which the planned unit development is
located.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-5 INDIVIDUAL USE AREAS; SIZE.
   The minimum area of each individual use area in a planned unit development
shall be:
   (A)   Residential: one-half acre;
   (B)   Residential/office/professional: 7,200 square feet;
   (C)   Residential/commercial: none;
   (D)   Commercial: none; and
   (E)   Industrial: two acres.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-6 BUILDINGS; COVERAGE.
   Buildings and structures shall not cover more of a lot or of the total
development site than would be permitted in meeting:
   (A)   All requirements with respect to the zone in which the development is
to be located and, in addition; and
   (B)   All the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-7 SETBACKS.
   All buildings and structures in a planned unit development shall be set back
from a street, road, or drive, whether or not dedicated to public use, not less
than the distance required with respect to setbacks from dedicated public
streets in the zone in which the development site will be situated, except as
herein provided. If the street, road, or drive shall have been formally
dedicated to public use, the setback shall be from the dedicated right-of-way
of the street, road, or drive. If the street, road, or drive shall not have
been formally dedicated to public use, the setback shall be from a line
established by a recordable instrument executed and acknowledged by the owner
of the development site, expressly approved by the Planning Commission as
establishing a setback that is compatible with the general setback requirements
in the zone and as being sufficient as to form, and recorded by the City Clerk
at the expense of the owner before any affected building sites in the
development are sold, or contracted to be sold, or construction of any building
or structure on any such sites is commenced. Provided, the Planning Commission
may require an additional setback from a heavily traveled street, road, or
drive if it determines such a setback to be reasonably necessary or proper for
the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-8 HEIGHT.
   The height of buildings and structures in any proposed planned unit
development shall not exceed the height limitations in the zone in which the
development is to be located.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-9 PRIVATE STORAGE AREAS.
   Where a proposed building is to be constructed without an attached garage or
detached garage for each dwelling unit, a minimum 100 cubic feet of private
storage space shall be provided within each dwelling unit. Such storage area
shall be accessible from the exterior of the individual dwelling unit, and the
design, location, and size of the storage space shall be integrated into the
building and the development generally.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-10 VEHICULAR STORAGE.
   Outside areas for storage of boats, trailers, recreational vehicles, and
similar vehicles are prohibited, unless provision for such areas for the
exclusive storage of such vehicles is contained in restrictive covenants
approved by the Planning Commission. Where such areas are provided, they shall
be screened and enclosed from view on a horizontal plane from adjacent areas by
a six-foot high architectural barrier compatible with the architectural design
of the development and permanently maintained. A vehicle wash area may be
provided within close proximity of the vehicle storage area. Specification for
such a wash area shall be submitted to and approved by the Development Services
Director.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-11 OTHER ACCESSORY USES.
   Other accessory uses solely for the convenience of the occupants of the
development which the Planning Commission determines to be compatible with a
planned unit development approved by it, may be authorized by the Commission by
special permit.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-12 WALLS AND FENCES.
   The general development standards in Article 6 of this chapter for fences,
walls, and hedges as shall apply to fences, walls, and hedges in planned unit
developments, providing the Planning Commission may require additional walls
and fences if it determines that such walls or fences are necessary to protect
adjacent properties or occupants of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-13 STREETS AND DRIVES; ADEQUACY; PRIMARY DRIVES, SECONDARY DRIVES, AND
DRIVES SERVING GARAGES.
   (A)   Adequacy. The streets and drives on the proposed development site
shall be adequate to serve the occupants of the development.
   (B)   Primary drives. All drives designed to provide primary access through
a development shall be improved with pavement having a minimum width of 28
feet. All improvements of such drives shall be constructed in accordance with
general city standards, including the installation of standard curb and gutter,
for public streets of the city.
   (C)   Secondary drives and ways. All secondary drives and vehicular ways
shall be improved with pavement having a minimum width of 26 feet. All
improvements of such drives and ways shall be constructed in accordance with
general city standards, including the installation of standard curb and gutter,
for public streets of the city.
   (D)   Drives serving garages. Where a private drive serves only garages, and
the drive is posted to prohibit all other use or parking, the drive shall be
improved with pavement having a minimum width of 26 feet and shall otherwise
conform to general city standards, including the installation of standard curb
and gutter, for public streets of the city.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-14 VEHICULAR ACCESS TO DEVELOPMENT SITE, ON-SITE PARKING AREAS, AND
INDIVIDUAL DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   To development site. Vehicles shall have access to a planned unit
development site only from a public street. However, no vehicle shall have
direct access to a development site from a major public street, unless the
Planning Commission shall determine:
      (1)   An existing development site has no alternative means of ingress
and egress; and
      (2)   The owner of the site has shown that access from a major street
will not hazardously affect the function of the street or be detrimental to the
safety of motorists.
   (B)   To on-site parking areas.
      (1)   Vehicles shall have access to on-site parking areas by means of:
         (a)   A loop system, each one-way roadway of which has a minimum width
of 20 feet; or
         (b)   All drive and vehicular accessways that provide access for fire
and emergency vehicles, or either.
      (2)   A minimum vertical clearance of 14 feet and a minimum horizontal
clearance of 20 feet shall be provided.
   (C)   To individual dwelling units. Vehicles shall not have direct ingress
to or egress from individual dwelling units from or to a public street.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-15 PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   A pedestrian circulation system shall be incorporated into the
development for the purpose of providing direct access to and from all
individual dwelling units, trash storage areas, parking areas, recreational
areas, and other outdoor living spaces. The circulation system shall be
developed with a combination of the following improvements:
      (1)   A public sidewalk system adjacent to all public streets or drives
which shall have a minimum width of five feet and shall be constructed in
accordance with general standards of the city for public sidewalks; and
      (2)   An interior walkway system, which shall include pedestrian walks or
paths consisting of varying widths designed to provide curvilinear forms
wherever possible. The minimum width of interior pedestrian walks and paths
shall be four feet. The interior walkway system shall utilize substantial
materials such as concrete, brick, flagstone, or other materials approved by
the Development Services Director.
   (B)   Provided, the Planning Commission may approve an alternative sidewalk
and pedestrian access plan which it determines will accomplish substantially
the same results.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-16 VEHICULAR, PEDESTRIAN ACCESS, AND CIRCULATION; PLANS; MODIFICATION.
   The Planning Commission, upon review of a proposed planned unit development
plan, may, even if the plan complies with the requirements of §§
25-7-13 to
25-7-15 of this article, inclusive, require modifications in the size, number,
and location of access points and vehicular, pedestrian or multi-model on-site
circulation system which it determines to be necessary or proper in order to
protect and enhance adjacent properties and protect the public safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-17 OPEN SPACES; COMMON.
   The planned unit development plan shall include such provisions for the
ownership and maintenance of all common open spaces as are reasonably
necessary, as determined by the Planning Commission, to assure the continuity,
care, conservation, and maintenance of such spaces, and to assure that remedial
measures will be available to the owners of individual units, or their
association, if the common space is permitted to deteriorate, or is not
maintained in a condition consistent with the best interests of the occupants
of the planned unit development and of the entire community, or either.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-18 DEDICATED RECREATIONAL AREAS.
   Any recreational area in a planned unit development which is proposed to be
dedicated to the city for public use shall comprise not less than one acre, and
shall have direct access from a public street.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-19 LIGHTING.
   The developer of a planned unit development shall install a lighting system
on all streets, roads, and drives and along all major walkways in the
development which shall equal in illumination lighting on public streets of the
city, subject to approval of the Development Services Director. Such lighting
shall be directed onto the drives and walkways and away from adjacent
properties. Walkway lighting shall be a low-level fixture, spaced to provide
adequate walkway illumination, be vandal proof, and shall not intrude
unnecessarily into residential units. All drives, walkways, parking areas,
outdoor activity areas, outdoor entries to individual dwelling units, private
patios, mail collection, and trash collection areas shall be illuminated during
hours of darkness. Lighting for individual dwelling unit entries and private
patios shall be independently controlled by the occupant(s) of such dwelling
unit.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-20 LANDSCAPING; REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTION.
   All setback areas in a planned unit development fronting on or visible from
a public street and all recreation, leisure, and open areas shall be landscaped
and permanently maintained in an attractive and appropriate manner. Such
landscaping shall consist primarily of ground cover, trees, shrubs, and other
living plants. Landscape maintenance shall be subject to immediate and periodic
inspection by the city.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-21 SIGNS; REQUIRED AND PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Required signs. There shall be provided by the developer of a
residential planned unit development signs that will enable motorists,
pedestrians, and emergency services, including fire and police services, to
locate residential units from access points on the development perimeter. Such
signs shall illustrate the site plan, names of streets and drives, and ranges
of corresponding street and drive addresses. Such signs shall include the
following:
      (1)   One indirectly illuminated monument sign per development entrance
for the purpose of identification, which shall contain the name and address of
the development only. Such sign shall not exceed 20 square feet in aggregate
area or five feet in overall height. It shall be erected within a landscaped
area and located not less than 15 feet from the curb face;
      (2)   In lieu of a monument sign such as is referred to in division (A)
above, one wall sign per development entrance, which shall be incorporated into
an exterior perimeter wall of the development. Such sign shall consist of
individually-mounted letters and numbers which identify the name and address of
the development only. Such letters and numbers shall not exceed 18 inches in
height and shall be indirectly illuminated;
      (3)   One directory sign per entrance of the development, which shall
illustrate the site plan, names of streets and drives, and ranges of
corresponding street and drive addresses. Such sign shall not exceed 20 square
feet and five feet in height, and shall be indirectly illuminated;
      (4)   One unlighted or luminous nameplate not exceeding 32 square inches
in area for each dwelling unit, indicating the address number of the unit; and
      (5)   Private drive signs at uniform locations throughout the
development. Such signs shall be similar to standard city street signs and
shall be approved by the Development Services Director.
   (B)   Permitted signs. For sale, lease or rent signs, and sold signs, which
are permitted in Article 6 of this chapter are permitted in planned unit
developments.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-22 APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   The Planning Commission, before approving a planned unit development, shall
consider the following standards, as well as those referred to elsewhere in
this subdivision (b) of this article:
   (A)   Architectural features and general appearance of the proposed
development shall enhance the orderly and harmonious development of the entire
development and the community as a whole;
   (B)   Architectural features and permanent colors, if any, shall be
incorporated into the design of all vertical exterior surfaces of buildings in
such manner as to create an aesthetically pleasing whole;
   (C)   Particular attention shall be given to incorporating the design,
including colors of signs, into the overall design of the entire development in
order to achieve a unity; and
   (D)   Vehicular accessways shall be designed with landscaping and building
variation to avoid an alley-like appearance.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-23 SANITARY SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS.
   Sanitary sewer and water systems shall be designed and installed to city
standards and specifications for sanitary sewer and water systems installed by
the city. Such systems shall be located within private drives, roads, or
alleys, unless otherwise shown in the final plat approved by the City Council.
In no case shall sewer mains or lines extend underneath any dwelling unit other
than the unit served by the main or line. Provisions shall be made, in an
instrument recordable and indexable against the development site in the office
of the Register of Deeds, to identify those parts of the system which are
privately-owned and those, if any, which are publicly-owned.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-24 STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.
   Storm drainage systems shall be designed and installed to city standards and
specifications for storm drainage systems installed by the city. Such systems
shall provide for delivery of on-site drainage to a public storm drainage
system. An off-site storm drainage system may be required by the Planning
Commission if it shall determine that such a system is necessary to protect
adjacent properties.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-25 FIRE HYDRANT SYSTEM.
   A fire hydrant system to provide an adequate fire flow for fire protection
purposes shall be designed and installed to city standards and specifications
for fire hydrant systems installed by the city. The adequacy of such a proposed
system shall be approved by the Water and Fire Departments, and the system
shall be tested and approved by such departments prior to commencement of the
framing stages of building on development site.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-26 UTILITY AND CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES.
   All utility services, including cable television, shall be installed
underground, unless the Planning Commission finds that specific engineering or
design problems would prevent such installation. Electrical utilities shall be
installed in accordance with the National Electrical Code.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-27 TRASH COLLECTION AREAS.
   Individual or common trash collection areas shall be provided. Such areas
shall be provided within 100 feet of the farthest unit they serve, and shall be
situated so as to eliminate noise and visual intrusion on adjacent property and
dwelling units, as well as to avoid fire hazard to adjacent structures.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-28 LAUNDRY AREAS.
   Laundry areas shall be provided in individual dwelling units or at central
locations throughout the development site for adequate use and convenience of
the occupants of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-29 MAIL DELIVERY.
   Mail delivery service shall be provided at central points which are easily
accessible from streets and drives in the development, and shall not be so
located as to interfere with traffic movement.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-30 RECOMMENDATIONS; PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission may adopt, by resolution, additional recommended
standards of general applicability concerning the design and construction of
planned unit developments which are compatible with the intent and purposes of
the city’s zoning and subdivision ordinances and comprehensive development
plan. Provided, compliance or noncompliance with such recommendations shall not
be a factor to be considered by the Commission in granting or denying an
application for a special permit for a planned unit development.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(b) CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY
§ 25-7-31 CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REGULATIONS; APPLICABILITY; SCOPE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Applicability. The regulations in this subdivision (b) of this article
apply to real property which:
      (1)   Is proposed to be developed as a residential planned unit
development comprising apartments and common areas; and
      (2)   Has been, or is to be, subjected to a condominium property regime
under the Condominium Property Act or Nebraska Condominium Act.
   (B)   Scope. With respect to such property, these regulations supersede all
other regulations in this article, and in other articles in this chapter, which
are in conflict with these regulations, except such other regulations as are
specifically applicable to townhouse or cluster housing projects. Except in
cases of such conflict, or in situations in which such other regulations
clearly are inapplicable (because clearly inappropriate) to property to which
the regulations in this subdivision (b) of this article apply, such other
regulations, if otherwise applicable, apply, also, to such property.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulations in this subdivision (b) of
this article are to permit the planning, construction, and occupancy of
residential planned unit developments of the type described above, in
accordance with standards for large scale residential developments containing
adequate parking facilities, open spaces, recreational facilities, pedestrian
walkways, and other amenities which are not required or, as the case may be,
permitted under other provisions in this article, or other articles in this
chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-32 ACCESSORY USES.
   A condominium development may contain accessory uses permitted within the
zone in which the development is located, providing that commercial uses are so
located as to minimize interference with residential or recreational areas
within the development, and to avoid creation of traffic congestion or other
objectionable influences affecting residences outside the development.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-33 CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REGIME; ESTABLISHED; WHEN.
   A condominium property regime shall be deemed to have been established
whenever the sole owner or other owners of residential property which is
eligible to be subjected to such a regime under the Condominium Property Act or
Nebraska Condominium Act shall declare his, her, or their desire so to do in
the manner prescribed by the Act. As provided by the Act, such a regime may be
established with respect to a project whereby four or more apartments are
separately offered or proposed to be offered for sale.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-34 SETBACKS; PUBLIC STREET, OTHER VEHICULAR ACCESSWAYS, AND ABUTTING
PROPERTY LINE.
   (A)   Public street. The minimum setback from a publicly dedicated street
for all buildings and structures exceeding 42 inches in height in a residential
condominium development shall be that which is required in the zone in which
such development is located; provided, this restriction shall not apply to
construction of a six-foot decorative wall or fence along an arterial highway
or other public street in a situation in which such construction is necessary
to diminish noise and establish pedestrian traffic-control, if permitted or
required by the Planning Commission in connection with issuance of the special
permit.
   (B)   Other vehicular accessways.
      (1)   The minimum distance between buildings and vehicular accessways,
other than publicly dedicated streets, on a condominium development site shall
be:
         (a)   Between vehicular accessway and that portion of a building used
for human habitation: ten feet; and
         (b)   Between travel lanes on vehicular accessway and garage or
parking structure: five feet. However, where garages attached or adjacent to
the residence building they are to serve are to be constructed, a minimum of
50% of the area of such garages shall set back not less than 20 feet from the
curbline, or back of sidewalk, whichever distance is greater.
      (2)   The distance between uncovered and unenclosed parking spaces and
any ground floor area of a building used for human habitation shall not be less
than six feet.
   (C)   Abutting property line. The minimum setback from a property line of
abutting property for all buildings 30 feet or less in height, except garages,
shall be ten feet. The minimum setback from an interior property line for
garages shall be ten feet; provided, such a structure may be constructed at a
zero setback if:
      (1)   The finished grade of the condominium development at the common
property line shall not be higher by more than one foot than the finish grade
on abutting property;
      (2)   The wall of such structure constructed along the common property
line shall be a full fire separation wall; and
      (3)   No portion of the structure or architectural features shall project
over the common property line.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-35 BUILDING SEPARATION.
   The minimum distance between buildings on a condominium development site
shall be:
   (A)   Between one-story buildings, front to front: 25 feet. This distance
shall be increased by five feet with respect to each story of each building in
excess of one story;
   (B)   Between one-story buildings, rear to rear or rear to front: 20 feet.
This distance shall be increased by five feet with respect to each building in
excess of one story;
   (C)   Between one-story buildings, side to front, or side to rear: 15 feet.
This distance shall be increased two and one-half feet with respect to each
story of each building in excess of one story;
   (D)   Between one-story buildings, side by side: ten feet. This distance
shall be increased by two and one-half feet with respect to each story of each
building in excess of one story, or by five feet with respect to each dwelling
unit in excess of two stories contained in either one of the structures,
whichever distance is greater;
   (E)   In the case of an obliquely aligned building, the distance specified
above may be decreased by five feet at one building corner if increased by an
equal or greater distance at the other corner;
   (F)   Between detached accessory buildings: ten feet; and
   (G)   Between ground floor area of buildings used for human habitation and
detached accessory building: ten feet.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-36 FLOOR AREA.
   The minimum floor area of an apartment in a condominium development shall
be:
 
Type          Area (Sq. Ft.)
One bedroom   500
Two bedroom   600
Three bedroom 650
Four bedroom  700
 
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-37 BUILDINGS; SIZE; EXTERIOR DESIGN.
   All structures in a condominium development shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Structures having dwelling units attached side by side shall contain
not more than eight apartments and be not more than 200 feet in length.
   (B)   Structures having apartments attached side by side shall have an off-
set in the front building line of not less than two feet for every two dwelling
units within the structure.
   (C)   Not more than three apartments attached side by side shall have rear
walls in continuous alignment. The minimum off-set for such walls shall be one
foot.
   (D)   Structures having apartments attached side by side shall provide a
variety of heights to minimize the apparent bulk of the structure.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-38 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Except for a residential condominium located in a Central Business (C-1)
District, a condominium development site shall include, as a minimum the
following off-street parking facilities:
   (A)   Two parking spaces for each apartment. One of such spaces shall be a
fully-enclosed garage, which shall be located adjacent to the apartment being
served. The minimum inside dimension of all parking spaces shall be ten feet in
width and 20 feet in length;
   (B)   No parking space or stall except a garage, and no driveway shall be
closer than six feet to any residential building; and
   (C)   Guest parking: one parking space for each five apartments. Guest
parking shall be distributed throughout the condominium development site. Such
parking facilities shall meet, in addition, all of the requirements of §§
25-5-4 to
25-5-16 of this chapter. Parking on streets, drives, or alleys shall not be
used to satisfy any of the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4152, passed - -2015)
§ 25-7-39 COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   A condominium development site shall include common open space for
recreational and leisure activities of the occupants of the development
aggregating not less than 450 square feet per each apartment or 35% of the
total area of the development site, whichever is greater. Common open space
does not include public streets, driveways, private yards and patios, parking
spaces, parkways, or other areas not primarily designed for recreational or
leisure use.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(c) TOWNHOUSES
§ 25-7-40 TOWNHOUSES; REGULATIONS; APPLICABILITY, SCOPE, AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Applicability. The regulations in this subdivision (c) of this article
apply to townhouse planned unit developments.
   (B)   Scope. With respect to such developments, these regulations supersede
all other regulations in this article, and in other articles in this chapter,
which are in conflict with these regulations, except such other regulations as
are specifically applicable to condominium property developments. Except in
cases of such conflict, or in situations in which such other regulations
clearly are inapplicable (because clearly inappropriate) to townhouse
developments, such other regulations, if otherwise applicable, apply also to
such developments.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulations in this subdivision (c) of
this article is to permit the planning, construction, and occupancy of
townhouse developments in accordance with standards for townhouses, and for
accessory buildings and lands to which the townhouses are appurtenant,
containing adequate parking facilities, open spaces, recreational facilities,
pedestrian walkways, and other amenities which are not required or, as the case
may be, not permitted under other provisions in this article, or other articles
in this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-41 LOTS; AREA.
   The minimum area of a lot on which is constructed a townhouse shall be 3,500
square feet; provided, the Planning Commission, at the request of the applicant
for a special permit for a townhouse development, may permit townhouses to be
construed on lots the area of which is not less than 2,500 square feet,
providing the number of dwelling units per acre of land (exclusive of public
rights-of-way) does not exceed 12, that not less than 10% of the area
(exclusive of front, rear, and side yards, private walkways and driveways, and
public street and alleys) be reserved for use as open space.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-42 LOT; WIDTH.
   The minimum width of a lot on which is constructed a dwelling unit in a
townhouse shall be 20 feet.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-43 SETBACK; SIDE.
   The dwelling unit at each end of the townhouse or, as the case may be,
townhouse series shall set back not less than ten feet from the side lot lines;
provided, if that lot is a corner lot, the setback shall be not less than 15
feet.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-44 FLOOR AREA.
   The minimum floor area of a dwelling unit in a townhouse shall be:
 
Type          Area (Sq. Ft.)
One bedroom   500
Two bedroom   600
Three bedroom 650
Four bedroom  700
 
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-45 BUILDINGS; SIZE; EXTERIOR DESIGN.
   All structures in a townhouse development shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Structures having dwelling units attached side by side shall contain
not more than eight dwelling units and be not more than 200 feet in length.
   (B)   Structures having dwelling units attached side by side shall have an
off-set in the front building line of not less than two feet for every two
dwelling units within the structure.
   (C)   Not more than three dwelling units attached side by side shall have
rear walls in continuous alignment. The minimum off-set for such walls shall be
one foot.
   (D)   Structures having dwelling units attached side by side shall provide a
variety of heights to minimize the apparent bulk of the structure.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-46 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided within the townhouse
development for each dwelling unit in the development. If more than one such
space is provided on a lot on which is situated a townhouse, such space shall
be set back from the front lot line not less than the front building line.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-47 COMMON OPEN SPACES.
   A townhouse development site shall include common open spaces for
recreational and leisure activities of the occupants of the development
aggregating not less than 450 square feet per dwelling unit or 35% of the total
area of the development site, whichever is greater. Common open space does not
include public streets, driveways, private yards and patios, parking spaces,
parkways, or other areas not primarily designed for recreational or leisure
use.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(d) CLUSTER HOUSING
§ 25-7-48 CLUSTER HOUSING; REGULATIONS; APPLICABILITY, SCOPE, AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Applicability. The regulations in this subdivision (d) of this article
apply to cluster housing planned unit developments.
   (B)   Scope. With respect to such developments, these regulations supersede
all other regulations in this article, and in other articles in this chapter,
which are in conflict with these regulations, except such other regulations as
are specifically applicable to condominium property developments. Except in
cases of such conflict, or in situations in which such other regulations
clearly are inapplicable (because clearly inappropriate) to cluster housing
developments, such other regulations, if otherwise applicable, apply also to
such developments.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulations in this subdivision (d) of
this article is to permit the planning, construction, and occupancy of cluster
housing developments by permitting a reduction in yard and density requirements
for dwelling units constructed in such a development, compensating therefor by
providing open space, including recreational and other common areas, adjacent
to each lot in the development, and permitting private pedestrian and vehicular
accessways to individual dwelling units.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-49 LOTS; AREA.
   The minimum area of a lot on which is constructed a cluster housing dwelling
unit shall be 4,000 square feet; provided, the number of dwelling units per
acre of land (exclusive of public right-of-way) shall not exceed eight.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-50 LOT WIDTH.
   The minimum width of a lot on which is constructed a cluster housing
dwelling unit shall be 40 feet.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-51 SETBACK; FRONT.
   On cluster housing lots, any structure shall be set back not less than 25
feet from the front lot line.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-52 SETBACK; SIDE.
   On cluster housing lots:
   (A)   An attached or unattached dwelling unit having no side yard on one
side shall have a side yard of not less than ten feet on the opposite side;
   (B)   Any dwelling unit having no side yard shall have no openings on that
side abutting the lot line unless that side abuts other open space, common
ground, or recreational area;
   (C)   An unattached dwelling unit which has no zero side yards on each side
shall have a side yard that averages not less than five feet and, in any event,
is not less than three feet, in width between the structure and the lot line;
and
   (D)   An attached dwelling unit may have zero side yards on both sides only
if attached on both sides.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-53 SETBACK; REAR.
   On cluster housing lots, there shall be a rear yard of not less than 15
feet.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-54 FLOOR AREA.
   The minimum floor area of a dwelling unit in a cluster housing development
shall be:
 
Type          Area (Sq. Ft.)
One bedroom   500
Two bedroom   600
Three bedroom 650
Four bedroom  700
 
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-55 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided within a cluster housing
development for each dwelling unit. If more than one such space is provided on
a lot on which is situated a dwelling unit, such space shall be set back from
the front lot line not less than the front building line.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(e) MOBILE HOME PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 25-7-56 MOBILE HOME PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS; REGULATIONS; APPLICABILITY,
SCOPE, AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Applicability. The regulations in this subdivision (e) of this article
apply to mobile home planned unit developments.
   (B)   Scope. With respect to such developments, these regulations supersede
all other regulations in this article, and in other articles in this chapter,
which are in conflict with these regulations. Except in cases of such conflict,
or in situations in which such other regulations clearly are inapplicable
(because clearly inappropriate) to mobile home planned unit developments, such
other regulations, if otherwise applicable, apply also to such developments.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulations in this subdivision (e) of
this article is to permit the planning, construction, and occupancy of mobile
home planned unit developments in accordance with standards for mobile homes,
and for accessory buildings and lands, containing adequate parking facilities,
open spaces, recreational facilities, pedestrian walkways, and other amenities
which are not required or, as the case may be, not permitted under other
provisions in this article, or other articles in this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-57 LOTS; AREA.
   Mobile home sites in a mobile home planned unit development which are to be
occupied by a “double wide” (20 feet to 24 feet in width) mobile home shall
have a site area of 3,800 square feet, and a minimum width of 40 feet. Mobile
home sites which are to be occupied by a “single wide” (ten feet to 12 feet in
width) mobile home shall have a minimum site area of 2,850 square feet and a
minimum width of 30 feet.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-58 SITE; AREA; FRONTAGE; DENSITY.
   A mobile home planned unit development shall be not less than three acres in
area, and shall have a frontage on a dedicated street of not less than 200
feet. The density of a mobile home planned unit development shall not exceed
seven dwelling units per gross acre.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-59 SETBACKS.
   The following minimum yard setbacks shall be maintained in each mobile home
planned unit development:
   (A)   Public street frontage: on that part of a mobile home planned unit
development which is adjacent to a major street, a minimum setback of 20 feet
shall be maintained. On that part of such development which is adjacent to a
secondary street or a street with a lower classification, a minimum setback of
15 feet shall be maintained; and
   (B)   Interior lot lines: a minimum setback from interior lot lines of ten
feet shall be maintained.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-60 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   All accessory buildings and structures in a mobile home planned unit
development shall be:
   (A)   Located to the rear of the main building;
   (B)   At least three feet from the rear lot line if the line is a common lot
line with an abutting lot;
   (C)   At least two feet from the interior side lot line and if the lot is a
corner lot, the accessory building shall not protrude beyond the mobile home
into the front yard abutting the side street; and
   (D)   Any detached accessory building shall be situated not less than five
feet from the mobile home dwelling unit.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-61 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on each mobile home unit
site.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-62 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   To ensure the residential character of a mobile home planned unit
development, and to minimize adverse effects on adjacent properties, the
following additional requirements shall be observed.
   (A)   All tongues, when readily removable, shall be removed when the mobile
home is in place. Those not detachable shall be screened by landscaping or
other material approved by the Planning and Building Director.
   (B)   All open areas under a mobile home shall be enclosed by approved
skirts or by a combination of skirts and grading, except openings required for
cross-ventilation.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(f) SPECIAL PERMITS
§ 25-7-63 SPECIAL PERMIT; ZONING MODIFICATIONS.
   The Planning Commission may issue a special permit authorizing a planned
unit development in Districts R-1a, R-1b, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-6, R-7, O-P, C-1, C-
2, C-3, M-1(s), and M-2, and for that purpose, modifying as to that
development, as provided in this article, zoning regulations relating to
height, setback, area requirements, and other provisions of this chapter which
otherwise would apply to the development, if the Commission determines that the
requirements of this article are met; provided, the Commission may not issue a
special permit for townhouses or cluster housing in Districts O-P, C-1, C-2, C-
3, M-1, M-1(s), and M-2.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-64 PRELIMINARY PLAN; CONCEPTUAL REVIEW.
   (A)   A developer, before submitting to the Planning Commission an
application for a special permit for a planned unit development, shall present
preliminary plans for the development to the City Planner for conceptual
review. The developer shall be prepared to outline during the presentation
discussion the scope and character of the project.
   (B)   This presentation shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   A tentative statistical summary of the proposal, including gross
site area, net site area, number of each variety of dwelling units, total
number of dwelling units, garages and parking spaces, the area devoted to open
space, common ground and recreational area, and the proposed traffic
circulation system;
      (2)   A tentative site plan, including a topographical map;
      (3)   A description of building types;
      (4)   A tentative staging plan and a general time schedule of expected
completion dates of elements of the plan;
      (5)   A tentative financial plan and description of the intended means of
financing any proposed recreational and community facilities;
      (6)   Size and scope of accessible shopping facilities, if any;
      (7)   Size and scope of any other community facilities;
      (8)   Preliminary statement regarding ownership and maintenance of open
space, common ground, and recreational areas; and
      (9)   Changes, if any, of zoning requested.
(Ord. 3828, passed - -2005)
§ 25-7-65 APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL PERMIT; FILING; FEE.
   An application for a special permit for a planned unit development,
addressed to the Planning Commission, shall be filed with the City Planner
after completion of the review by the City Planner of the preliminary plans for
development. The application shall be accompanied by a filing and investigation
fee as provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code of ordinances. Such
application shall be submitted to the City Planner not less than one month
prior to the meeting of the Planning Commission at which the special permit
application is first to be presented.
(Ord. 3828, passed - -2005)
§ 25-7-66 APPLICATION; FORM; CONTENT.
   (A)   An application to the Planning Commission for a special permit for a
planned unit development shall be signed as required in, and contain the
information required by the provisions of this chapter pertaining to
applications generally for special permits. To the extent that such information
does not include the following, the application also shall include information
or, as the case may be, be accompanied by documents, as follows:
      (1)   A site plan, in six copies, depicting:
         (a)   The building sites, showing the arrangement and location of all
buildings, structures, and improvements proposed and to be retained or
constructed, and the gross floor area and ground floor area of each unit and
building type. Both existing and proposed off-site improvements shall be
included;
         (b)   The location and design of on-site circulation, including
pedestrian ways, on-site parking and location, and loading areas;
         (c)   The location of all landscaped areas, fences, and trash storage
areas and how utility services are to be provided;
         (d)   Contours at intervals of two feet or spot elevations on a 100-
foot grid if the land is approximately flat;
         (e)   All streets adjoining the development site, and the width of
existing and planned right-of-way;
         (f)   Designation of individual lots if construction of the proposed
development is to occur in separate phases, or if such lots are proposed to be
sold to individual owners; and
         (g)   Existing development on adjacent properties within 200 feet.
      (2)   A landscape plan, including tentative landscape plant schedule,
showing the location of existing trees, if any, proposed to be removed and
proposed to be retained, and the amount, size, type, and location of landscaped
areas, planting beds, and plant materials, including provisions for irrigation;
      (3)   Two architectural renderings, showing all elevations and floor
plans of the proposed buildings and structures as they will appear on
completion. All exterior surfacing materials shall be shown on the elevations,
including type and color of materials;
      (4)   Scale drawings of all signs and exterior lighting, showing size,
location, materials, colors, copy, and method of illumination. These shall
include all light standard specifications;
      (5)   Preliminary grading plan and drainage plan which will assure that
the development will be properly related to the site and to surrounding
properties and structures;
      (6)   Calculations indicating the land area devoted to each use in the
planned unit development and its percentage of the total area;
      (7)   Density of dwelling units per net acre of the total project area;
      (8)   Number and location of all required parking, including visitor
parking, and whether parking is proposed to be covered or open;
      (9)   A time schedule indicating when construction is to begin, the
anticipated rate of development include dates for phase construction, and the
approximate completion date;
      (10)   Adequate drawings describing the system for disposition of
sanitary waste and stormwater;
      (11)   A vicinity map, showing the general arrangement of streets within
1,000 feet of the exterior boundaries of the proposed development site;
      (12)   A statement describing the provisions made or to be made for the
effective care and maintenance of all of the following improvements, if not
owned or maintained by the state or a governmental subdivision: streets,
drives, sidewalks, and other pedestrian ways; common open spaces (including
landscaping thereof), common recreational, and other common areas and spaces;
exterior lighting; perimeter or common walls, fences, gates, and hedges; signs;
sewer and water mains and appurtenances, including fire hydrants; and other
utilities equipment;
      (13)   Special engineering studies and other soil investigations in the
case of a planned unit development which is proposed to be located within a
hazard area as defined and delineated in the city’s comprehensive development
plan, if required by the Development Services Director; and
      (14)   Any other drawings or additional information which the Director
may determine to be necessary to adequately consider the drawings required by
this article and determine compliance with the purposes and intent of the
chapter.
   (B)   The application proper shall be made on a form provided by the
Development Services Department.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-67 ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS; CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY.
   (A)   If the planned unit development site has been, or is proposed to be,
subjected to a condominium property regime as provided in the Condominium
Property Act or Nebraska Condominium Act, there shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission with the application for a special permit for the
development:
      (1)   A copy of the master deed which has been proposed to be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds, which deed shall include covenants,
conditions, and restrictions making provision for the effective care and
maintenance of all of the following improvements, if not owned or maintained by
the state or a governmental subdivision: streets, drives, sidewalks, and other
pedestrian ways; common open spaces (including landscaping thereof); common
recreational and other common areas and spaces; exterior lighting; perimeter or
common walls, fences, gates, and hedges; signs; sewer and water mains and
appurtenances, including fire hydrants; and other utilities equipment. Such
covenants, conditions, and restrictions shall include a recital to the effect
that they cannot be made less restrictive without the approval of the City
Council; and
      (2)   Attached to the copy of the master deed, a copy of the plans of any
building which complies both in form and in content with the requirements of
the Condominium Property Act or the Nebraska Condominium Act.
   (B)   Such master deed and attached plans, if not already recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds, shall be so recorded before a special permit
for the planned unit development may issue.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-68 ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS; NON-CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY.
   If the planned unit development site has not been, and is not proposed to
be, subjected to a condominium property regime under the Condominium Property
Act or the Nebraska Condominium Act, there shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission with the application for a special permit for the development a set
of written covenants, conditions, and restrictions signed and acknowledged by
the owner of the site and in such form as to be indexable against the site in
the office of the Register of Deeds, which make provision, in a manner
analogous to that provided in §
25-7-70 of this article, for the effective care and maintenance of improvements
not owned or maintained by the state or a governmental subdivision. Such
covenants, conditions, and restrictions, if approved by the Planning
Commission, shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds before a
special permit for the planned unit developments may issue.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-69 CONCURRENT APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for approval of a preliminary plat or for zoning ordinance
amendments which relate to an application for a special permit for a planned
unit development may be submitted concurrently to the Planning Commission and,
in the discretion of the Commission, may be considered by it concurrently.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-70 ABILITY TO PERFORM; CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   The applicant shall satisfy the Planning Commission of applicant’s ability
to carry out the proposed plan, and shall submit a schedule of construction.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-71 RECOMMENDATION BY DIRECTOR.
   The Development Services Director shall make recommendations to the Planning
Commission concerning approval, conditional approval, or denial of a pending
application for a special permit for a planned unit development.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-72 BOND.
   If the Planning Commission finds that a special permit for a planned unit
development should issue, it shall fix the amount of a bond to be filed by the
owner of the development site with the City Clerk, and by him or her approved,
prior to issuance of the permit. The bond shall be executed by the owner and by
a corporate surety authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be
payable to the city to reimburse the city for any damage the city may sustain
in the event the owner, his or her successors, or assigns shall fail to
construct and maintain the planned unit development, or any part thereof, in
compliance with the requirements of this article, and with the covenants,
conditions, and restrictions required under this article to be recorded,
including, but not limited to, reasonable expense the city may incur, whether
by or without litigation, in obtaining, or attempting to obtain, compliance by
the owner, his or her successors, and assigns, with this article and with such
covenants, conditions, and restrictions. The condition of the bond shall be
that the owner, his or her successors, and assigns shall construct and maintain
the planned unit development in compliance with the requirements of this
article, as amended, and with the covenants, conditions, and restrictions
recorded with the Register of Deeds as required by such article; otherwise, the
bond shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-73 SPECIAL PERMIT; PROVISIONS.
   A special permit for a planned unit development may authorize the
development to be carried out in accordance with the plan submitted, or with
such modifications or conditions, to be specified in the permit, as the
Planning Commission shall deem to be necessary to effectuate the purposes of
this article. Conditions may include, but shall not be limited to, such matters
as the recording of a final plat, easements or other additional covenants or
restrictions, or time limits or a sequence of development to be observed.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-74 SPECIAL PERMIT; DURATION; BUILDING PERMIT; CONSTRUCTION.
   If a special permit for a planned unit development is issued, a building
permit must be obtained and construction of the development must begin within
one year after the date of issuance of the special permit.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-75 SPECIAL PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   A special permit for a planned unit development cannot be renewed. However,
a new application for such a permit may be submitted to and acted upon by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-76 SPECIAL PERMIT; TRANSFER.
   If ownership of the planned unit development site, or a part thereof, is
transferred, the special permit shall be deemed revoked, unless the Planning
Commission shall approve transfer of the permit to the successor in interest in
the development site. A mortgaging of the development site, or a part thereof,
shall not constitute a transfer of ownership within the meaning of this
section.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(g) CONSTRUCTION AND OCCUPANCY
§ 25-7-77 CONSTRUCTION; COMPLETION.
   The proposed construction shall begin within 12 months after approval of the
application by the Planning Commission. A minimum of 50%, in terms of cost, of
the total construction (including improvements other than buildings) shown on
the approved plan shall be completed within a period of two years following
approval; otherwise, approval of the plan will expire. The period of time for
completion of the development may be extended from time to time by the Planning
Commission, upon showing of good cause by the applicant for the permit.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-78 GRADING; NOTICE; INSPECTION; CERTIFICATION.
   The permittee or his or her agent shall notify the Code Administrator II of
the city when the grading is ready for final inspection. Final approval of the
grading shall not be given until all grading work and all drainage facilities
and their protective devices and all erosion control measures have been
completed in accordance with the final approved grading plan, and required
reports and core samples, if any required, have been submitted. After final
inspection and making a determination that the work completed is in accordance
with the final approved grading plan, the Code Administrator II shall issue a
written certification to that effect.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-79 LANDSCAPING; NOTICE; INSPECTION; CERTIFICATION.
   The permittee or his or her agent shall notify the Development Services
Director when the landscaping is ready for final inspection. Final approval of
the landscaping shall not be given until all landscaping work, including
installation of all plant material and irrigation system, if any, has been
completed in accordance with the final approved landscape plan. After final
inspection and making a determination that the work completed is in accordance
with the final approved landscape plan, the Development Services Director shall
issue a written certification to that effect.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-7-80 OCCUPANCY; PERMIT.
   No unit in a planned unit development may be occupied until:
   (A)   The Development Services Director or his or her authorized agent has
inspected the project and found that all conditions of the special permit have
been completed with; and
   (B)   An occupancy permit has been issued by the Director or his or her
authorized agent.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(h) TINY HOME COMMUNITY PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 25-7-81 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Applicability. The regulations in this subdivision (h) of this article
apply to tiny home community planned unit developments.
   (B)   Scope. With respect to such developments, these regulations supercede
all other regulations in this article, and in other articles of this chapter,
which are in conflict with these regulations. Except in cases of such conflict,
or in situations where such other regulations clearly are inapplicable (because
clearly inappropriate) to tiny home community planned unit developments, such
other regulations, otherwise applicable, apply also to such developments.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulations in this subdivision (h) is to
permit the planning, construction, and occupancy of tiny home community planned
unit developments in accordance with standards for tiny houses, and for
accessory buildings and lands, containing adequate parking facilities, open
spaces, recreation facilities, pedestrian walkways, and other amenities which
are not required or, as the case may be, not permitted under other provisions
of this article, or other articles in this chapter.
(Ord. 4199, passed - -2016)
§ 25-7-82 DEFINITION OF TINY HOUSE; LOTS; AREA.
   (A)   A tiny house is a residential structure on a permanent foundation with
a minimum of 200 square feet and constructed according to all building and life
safety codes. A tiny house on wheels must be licensed as a recreational vehicle
under the laws and regulations of the state and then can be placed wherever a
recreational vehicle can be placed, however, a tiny house on wheels cannot be
lived in year around. To be lived in year around, the tiny house must be taken
off wheels and affixed to a permanent foundation.
   (B)   Tiny house sites in a tiny home community planned unit development
must have a site area with a minimum of 2,850 square feet and a minimum width
of 30 feet.
(Ord. 4199, passed - -2016)
§ 25-7-83 SITE; AREA; FRONTAGE; DENSITY.
   A tiny home community planned unit development shall be not less than three
acres in area, and shall have a frontage on a dedicated street of not less that
200 feet. The density of tiny home community planned unit development shall not
exceed ten units per gross acre. Provided, however, the city may approve a
smaller site if it is part of a redevelopment site and meets the intent of this
article.
(Ord. 4199, passed - -2016)
§ 25-7-84 SETBACKS.
   The following minimum yard setbacks shall be maintained in each tiny home
community planned unit development:
   (A)   Public street frontage: on that part of a tiny home community planned
unit development which is adjacent to a major street, a minimum setback of 20
feet shall be maintained. On that part of such development which is adjacent to
a secondary street or a street with a lower classification, a minimum setback
of 15 feet shall be maintained; and
   (B)   Interior lot lines: a minimum setback from interior lot lines of ten
feet shall be maintained.
(Ord. 4199, passed - -2016)
§ 25-7-85 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   All accessory buildings and structures in a tiny home community planned unit
development shall
be:
   (A)   Located to the rear of the tiny house;
   (B)   At least three feet from the rear lot line if the line is a common lot
line with an abutting lot;
   (C)   At least two feet from the interior side lot line and if the lot is a
corner lot, the accessory building shall not protrude beyond the tiny house
into the front yard abutting the side street; and
   (D)   Any detached accessory building shall be situated not less than five
feet from the tiny house.
(Ord. 4199, passed - -2016)
§ 25-7-86 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided on each tiny house site.
(Ord. 4199, passed - -2016)
§ 25-7-87 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   To ensure the residential character of a tiny home community planned unit
development, and to minimize adverse effects on adjacent properties, the
following additional requirements shall be observed.
   (A)   Tiny houses shall be affixed to permanent foundations.
   (B)   Tiny houses must meet all building and life safety codes, minimum
square footage requirements, height requirements, including kitchen and
bathroom with minimum clearances for all fixtures, and have a fire suppression
system suitable for a dwelling unit of its size.
   (C)   Tiny houses must be connected to utilities with separate water
services and sewer services and meters for each tiny house.
   (D)   A tiny home community planned unit development may be allowable in any
residential zone as long as they meet the requirements set forth in this
article.
(Ord. 4199, passed - -2016)
ARTICLE 8: HOME OCCUPATIONS
Section
   
25-8-1   Article; scope
   
25-8-2   R and A Districts; household members; exceptions
   
25-8-3   R (except R-1) and A Districts; employees; conditions
   
25-8-4   Other zones; conditions
   
25-8-5   Building; requirements
   
25-8-6   Vehicles; R and A Districts; restrictions
   
25-8-7   Certificate of occupancy; required; exceptions and conditions
§ 25-8-1 ARTICLE; SCOPE.
   The regulations in this article apply to home occupations.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-8-2 R AND A DISTRICTS; HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The following home occupations may be conducted in an R or A District if
carried on solely by one or more members of the household: stenographic and
secretarial work; clerical or bookkeeping work or draftsmanship which is solely
incidental to any other home occupation mentioned in this section, or to an
occupation carried on outside the premises by a member of the household;
writing; telephone, radio, or televised communications; sewing; knitting;
cooking; arts activities; indoor instruction of groups not exceeding ten
persons in arts, crafts, or recreational skills, and incidental use of
equipment and materials not incompatible with residential use of zoned area;
emergency medical treatment; performance of religious or civil rites; and
occasional business or professional meetings, consultations, or conferences.
Provided, the business of telephone, radio, or televised communications may be
carried on by one or more members of the household and not to exceed at any one
time more than one employee who is not a member of the household.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-8-3 R (EXCEPT R-1) AND A DISTRICTS; EMPLOYEES; CONDITIONS.
   Any other home occupation may be conducted in an R (except R-1) or A
District, if carried on solely by one or more members of the household and not
to exceed more than two employees who are not members of the household, and if
the occupation does not create a health or safety hazard, noise annoying to a
person of average sensibilities residing in an R or A District, noxious odors,
increased pedestrian or vehicular traffic in an R or A District, or any other
conditions injurious to the peace or quiet of an R or A District. Provided,
ambulance service may be carried on by one or more members of the household and
not to exceed at any one time more than two employees who are not members of
the household; provided, further, the restriction in this section with respect
to increased pedestrian or vehicular traffic shall not apply to nursery
schools, private tutoring, or music instruction, or to traffic consisting of
permitted vehicles operated by the persons carrying on the home occupation.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-8-4 OTHER ZONES; CONDITIONS.
   A home occupation may be conducted in any other zone if the occupation is
not injurious to the public health or safety and is not otherwise prohibited by
ordinance or other law.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-8-5 BUILDING; REQUIREMENTS.
   A home occupation may be carried on only within a building, except as
otherwise provided in this section. No building may be remodeled, added to, or
otherwise altered in such a manner as to diminish or otherwise alter the
residence character of the structure. Access to that part of a dwelling used
for a home occupation may be had only through an entrance used also as an
entrance to the part of the building occupied as a dwelling. The Planning
Commission may issue a special permit authorizing photographic sessions to be
conducted by a commercial photographer outdoors on residential premises
occupied by the photographer; the permit may include authorization for such
work to be done, also, by photographer business associates or employees of the
photographer.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-8-6 VEHICLES; R AND A DISTRICTS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No commercial type vehicle may be used in carrying on a home occupation in
R-1 District. No commercial type vehicle may be used in carrying on a home
occupation in any other R District or in an A District, except not to exceed
one ambulance or two panel or pickup trucks, or a tow truck operated by a
person holding a permit therefor issued by the Police Chief under Chapter 21,
Article 6 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-8-7 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   An application for a certificate of occupancy to conduct a home occupation
must be made to the Planning and Building Director in writing in accordance
with
Article 16 of this chapter, except that:
   (A)   Section 25-16-3 of this chapter shall not apply;
   (B)   No certificate of occupancy to conduct a home occupation shall be
required in respect of the following activities: stenographic and secretarial
work; clerical or bookkeeping work or draftsmanship which is solely incidental
to a home occupation or to an occupation carried on outside the premises by a
member of the household; writing; telephone, radio or televised communications;
sewing; knitting; cooking; art work; emergency medical treatment; performance
of religious or civil rites; and occasional business or professional meetings,
consultations or conferences; and
   (C)   Nursery schools shall not be required to comply with this section, but
shall comply with
Article 16 of this chapter. If the Development Services Director finds that a
home occupation would create any conditions prohibited by this chapter, a
certificate of occupancy therefor shall not be issued.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 9: MOBILE HOMES
Section
(a) General Provisions
   
25-9-1   Mobile homes; occupancy; location
   
25-9-2   Mobile homes; natural gas lines
   
25-9-3   Mobile homes; mechanical systems
   
25-9-4   R-6 Mobile Home District; requirements; general
(b) Mobile Home Parks
   
25-9-7   Lots; numbering
   
25-9-8   Drives; connection to streets; name; improvement; maintenance
   
25-9-9   Sidewalks; requirements; obstruction
   
25-9-10   Drainage; required
   
25-9-11   Driveways; drainage; permit
   
25-9-12   Utilities; lines and facilities, water supply, sewage disposal and
plumbing, and electrical system
   
25-9-13   Fire hydrants; location
   
25-9-14   Service buildings; recreation facilities
   
25-9-15   Buildings; responsibility
   
25-9-16   Solid waste; containers
   
25-9-17   Fuel tanks and drums; storage
   
25-9-18   Park office; register
   
25-9-19   License; certificate of occupancy; required
   
25-9-20   License; application; form; fee
   
25-9-21   Application; park plan; submission; fee
   
25-9-22   Certificate of occupancy; issuance
   
25-9-23   Mobile homes; placement; restrictions
   
25-9-24   Additions; permit
   
25-9-25   Licensee; duty; generally
   
25-9-26   License violations; notice to cease
   
25-9-27   License; revocation; suspension; grounds
   
25-9-28   License; revocation; suspension; procedure
   
25-9-29   License; issuance; after revocation or suspension
   
25-9-30   Nonconforming parks; defined; requirements; license
   
25-9-31   Lessees; agents; provisions applicable
(a) GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 25-9-1 MOBILE HOMES; OCCUPANCY; LOCATION.
   No person shall occupy any mobile home except in R-6 Mobile Home District,
R-7 Mobile Home District, or in a mobile home park which is licensed under this
article. Provided, a mobile home may be occupied for business or residential
use outside such zones or a licensed mobile home park as follows:
   (A)   If mounted upon a permanent type foundation and it shall conform to
all applicable requirements of the building, electrical, plumbing and zoning
ordinances, and other ordinances of the city;
   (B)   When placed in a travel trailer park and occupied as a residence or
the park office by the caretaker or owner of the park (not to exceed, however,
one such unit);
   (C)   When used as a field office during construction; or
   (D)   When displayed for sale on a mobile home sales lot or at a mobile home
manufacturing plant, in which latter situations one such unit may be occupied
for residential purposes or as a mobile home sales office.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-2 MOBILE HOMES; NATURAL GAS LINES.
   Natural gas lines shall not be installed on or above the surface of the
ground under or adjacent to mobile homes.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-3 MOBILE HOMES; MECHANICAL SYSTEMS.
   All mobile home mechanical systems shall comply with all ordinances of the
city and laws of the state which are applicable to systems of that type.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-4 R-6 MOBILE HOME DISTRICT; REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL.
   A mobile home and a mobile home lot in an R-6 Mobile Home District shall
conform to all of the requirements as described below.
   (A)   Lots; area; setbacks. A mobile home and mobile home lot in the R-
6 Mobile Home District shall conform to the minimum lot and yard requirements
for single-family dwellings as specified in the regulations for the R-1a
Single-Family District, except that the minimum lot size shall be 16,640 square
feet and the minimum interior side setback shall be 12 feet.
   (B)   Height. The height restrictions in the R-1a Single-Family District
shall apply also to the R-6 Mobile Home District.
   (C)   Principal uses and structures. Any principal use and structure
permitted in R-1a Single- Family District shall be permitted in R-6 Mobile Home
District.
   (D)   Accessory uses and structures. Accessory uses and structures permitted
in R-1a Single- Family District and those normally appurtenant to such uses and
structures shall be permitted in R-6 Mobile Home District; provided:
      (1)   Attached carports, porches, or similar structures shall be
constructed of the same basic materials as the mobile or modular home;
      (2)   A detached accessory building placed on a lot with a standard
mobile home shall not be required to be to the rear of the mobile home; and
      (3)   Accessory structures shall not be located in any of the setback
areas.
   (E)   Foundations; anchors; storage. A mobile home in R-6 Mobile Home
District shall be placed on a permanent foundation of concrete block, poured
reinforced concrete, pier type construction, or other comparable foundations
which meet the minimum standards of the city’s Building Code for single-family
dwelling building foundations. The permanent foundation should be adequate for
the placement and tie-down of the mobile home, thereby securing the
superstructure against uplift, sliding, rotation, or overturning. Anchors and
tie-downs shall be placed at least at each corner of the mobile home and at
intervals not to exceed 24 feet. Tie-downs shall be of the strap type (Type 1,
Class B, Grade 1 steel straps, one and one-fourth inches wide and 0.035 inches
thick, sometimes marked “Federal Specification QQS-781-F”) and shall run over
or through the roof from an acceptable ground anchor. The ground anchor shall
be constructed to resist a force equal to or exceeding a working load of 3,150
pounds. Unless the foundation is continuous, there shall be installed between
the permanent segments a non-combustible skirt. No combustible material shall
be stored under a mobile home.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(b) MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 25-9-7 LOTS; NUMBERING.
   Each mobile home park lot shall be numerically designated for address and
mail purposes.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-8 DRIVES; CONNECTION TO STREETS; NAME; IMPROVEMENT; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Connection to streets. The interior drive system within a mobile home
park shall connect to public streets at two or more points.
   (B)   Name. All mobile home park drives shall have identification names
corresponding to those shown on the plan submitted by the owner for approval.
   (C)   Improvement. Interior mobile home park drives shall be improved 40
feet from back of curb to back of curb. All such drives shall be constructed to
a minimum standard equivalent to two course bituminous penetration surface
placed on a six inch stabilized base course with concrete curb and gutter.
   (D)   Maintenance. All mobile home drives shall be maintained by the owner
in a safe and reasonably usable condition at all times.
§ 25-9-9 SIDEWALKS; REQUIREMENTS; OBSTRUCTION.
   All interior sidewalks shall be of concrete four inches in thickness and
four feet in width. Exterior sidewalks shall comply with the requirements of
the ordinances of the city pertaining to public sidewalks. No sidewalks shall
be obstructed by fences, by parked vehicles, or otherwise.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-10 DRAINAGE; REQUIRED.
   All areas of mobile home parks shall be adequately drained to the mobile
home park drives and to public streets or drainage ways. Drainage improvements
shall be adequate to contain drainage flow which is reasonably to be
anticipated.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-11 DRIVEWAYS; DRAINAGE; PERMIT.
   No driveways shall be constructed or drainage construction work shall be
done until a permit therefor shall have been obtained from the Development
Services Director.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-12 UTILITIES; LINES AND FACILITIES, WATER SUPPLY, SEWAGE DISPOSAL AND
PLUMBING, AND ELECTRICAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Utility lines and facilities. Utility line and facility locations in
mobile home parks shall be approved by the utility departments or companies
which supply the utility service. All utilities, including but not limited to
electricity, sewer, water, gas, and cable television, shall be installed
underground. The owner of the park shall not permit unqualified personnel to
construct, perform any maintenance work on, or connect any utilities in the
park. The owner or, if the park is not operated by the owner, the operator of
the park shall be responsible for the construction and operation of all
utilities in the park.
   (B)   Water supply. Public water supply for domestic use and fire protection
purposes complying with all ordinances of the city shall be provided in every
mobile home park.
   (C)   Sewage disposal; plumbing. Waste matter from all toilets, lavatories,
and showers in mobile home parks shall be discharged into a public sanitary
sewer, or into a private disposal system of a type which complies with this
municipal code, and all plumbing, exclusive of the internal plumbing of the
mobile homes, shall comply with this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Electrical system. The electrical distribution system of a mobile home
park shall comply with this code of ordinances pertaining to electrical
systems. Separate meters shall be used on each lot.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-13 FIRE HYDRANTS; LOCATION.
   Each mobile home must be located within 300 feet of a fire hydrant.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-14 SERVICE BUILDINGS; RECREATION FACILITIES.
   If the mobile home park contains a service building or recreation
facilities, such building and such facilities shall comply, not only with this
municipal code pertaining to buildings or facilities of such types, but also
with all rules and regulations of the Nebraska Department of Health.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-15 BUILDINGS; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner or, if the mobile home park is not operated by the owner, the
operator of the park shall be responsible for the construction and maintenance
of any building on the park.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-16 SOLID WASTE; CONTAINERS.
   The owner of a mobile home park shall provide containers for the storage of
solid wastes awaiting collection. Containers shall be adequate to contain
completely all solid wastes that are generated on the premises, and shall
conform to all applicable governmental regulations, including, but not limited
to, those pertaining to the size, sanitary condition, physical condition, and
container covers or other methods of closure. The owner shall provide a
location or locations for such containers which will facilitate the collection
of solid wastes from the premises. Such locations shall be reasonably
accessible to occupants of the park and to collection crews and, when
reasonably possible, shall be such as will enable the collection vehicle to
remain on a public street or alley and stop directly adjacent to the storage
container. Where private drives must be used, sufficient space shall be
reserved in the vicinity of parked vehicles to permit easy operation of the
collection vehicle without backing the vehicle. The collection points and the
containers located thereat shall be kept in a neat and sanitary condition by
the owner of the mobile home park. The owner of the park shall promulgate and
enforce rules and regulations governing solid waste storage and handling that
shall require not less than the requirements of this section and of other
applicable governmental regulations.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-17 FUEL TANKS AND DRUMS; STORAGE.
   No fuel oil tanks or drums shall be stored in a mobile home park.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-18 PARK OFFICE; REGISTER.
   Every mobile home park shall maintain an office in or adjacent to the park,
in which a copy of the park license and certificate of occupancy shall be
posted and a register of park occupancy shall be kept. It shall be the duty of
the park licensee to keep a register of park occupancy which shall be current
at all times and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Full name and address in the park of each occupant of mobile home;
   (B)   The make, model, serial number, year, and dimensions of each mobile
home; and
   (C)   The date of arrival and departure of each mobile home, and destination
of each departing mobile home.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-19 LICENSE; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, and maintain, or
permit to be established, operated, or maintained, upon any property owned or
controlled by such person a mobile home park within, or within two miles of,
the corporate limits of the city, without having first secured a license
therefor from the City Clerk, and a certificate of occupancy from the
Development Services Director, as provided by this subdivision (b) of this
article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-20 LICENSE; APPLICATION; FORM; FEE.
   The application for a license, or renewal of a license, to establish,
operate, or maintain a mobile home park shall be made on forms furnished by the
City Clerk, which shall include the name and address of the owner in fee of the
tract and of the applicant, if other than the owner and a legal description of
the premises upon which the park is or will be situated; and shall be signed by
the owner of the tract and, if the applicant is other than the owner, by the
applicant. The application shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be
accompanied by an annual fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code of ordinances. Provided, the amount of the
fee for any license issued less than six months prior to the following May 1
shall be 50% of the amount of the regular fee herein prescribed.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-21 APPLICATION; PARK PLAN; SUBMISSION; FEE.
   Where the application is for a license to establish, maintain, and operate a
mobile home park which was not physically in existence on the date of enactment
of this article, the applicant also shall submit to the City Clerk a plan, in
six copies, of the park as proposed to be constructed, maintained, and
operated, together with a plan filing fee in the amount provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code of ordinances.
   (A)   Park plan; contents. The plan for a mobile home park, which shall be
submitted as provided in this article, shall include:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner of record, and of any contract
purchaser, of the proposed mobile home park;
      (2)   Legal description of the land upon which the mobile home park is,
or will be located;
      (3)   Names of all adjacent public streets and roads;
      (4)   Contour topography lines at five-foot intervals;
      (5)   Drainage plans, including directions and calculated run-off;
      (6)   Locations and dimensions of all mobile home spaces, utility
easements, drives, recreation areas, streets, and sidewalks;
      (7)   Building setback lines from public streets and adjacent property
lines;
      (8)   Scale of the plan (no smaller than 1" = 100'), with complete
dimensions;
      (9)   Numbering system for each individual mobile home space;
      (10)   Density in square feet of mobile home space per gross acre;
      (11)   Dimensional area of the whole of the site;
      (12)   Areas designated for all fixed waste containers; and
      (13)   Location, mechanical plan, and building plan of shower and toilet
facilities, if to be constructed.
   (B)   Park plan; approval. Upon the submission of a plan in conformity with
the requirements of this article, the Development Services Director shall
examine or cause to be examined the plan and accompanying documents and shall
determine whether or not the plan complies with the requirements of this
subdivision (b) concerning the matters required to be shown in the plan, and
with all other applicable ordinances of the city and all other applicable
governmental regulations; provided the City Manager, or the designee of the
City Manager, shall determine the adequacy of the grade plan. If the plan shall
be so approved, the Director shall endorse such approval on one of the copies
of the plan and return such copy to the City Clerk, who shall attach such copy
to the application for a mobile home park license. If the Director shall not
approve the plan, he or she shall enter an order so determining, and file the
same with the City Clerk, who shall attach such order to a copy of the plan
remaining on file with the Clerk and shall deliver a conformed copy of the
order to the applicant.
   (C)   Park plan; copy. Prior to the issuance of a license to establish,
maintain, and operate the mobile home park, the applicant shall provide to the
Development Services Director one reproducible copy of all approved plans for
the park.
   (D)   Taxes; special assessments. No license to establish, operate, and
maintain a mobile home park shall be issued until there shall have been
submitted to the City Clerk a certificate showing that all real and personal
property taxes and accrued installments of special assessments on the property
to be used for such purpose have been paid.
   (E)   Issuance. Upon compliance with the requirements of this article, the
City Clerk shall issue to the applicant a license or, as the case may be, a
renewal license to establish, operate, and maintain the mobile home park shown
in the approved plan on file in the office of the City Clerk. Provided, such
license shall not entitle the licensee to occupy and operate the park until he
or she shall have made application to the Development Services Director for,
and there shall have been issued to him or her by the Director, a certificate
of occupancy; and the license shall so state.
   (F)   Expiration; renewal. All licenses to establish, maintain, and operate
a mobile home park shall expire on April 30. Application for license renewal
shall be made not less than 30 days prior to expiration of the existing
license.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-22 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; ISSUANCE.
   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued in respect of a mobile home park
until after a license to establish, maintain, and operate the park has been
issued as required by this subdivision (b) of this article and, except in the
case of a nonconforming mobile home park as defined in
Article 2 of this chapter, until all improvements required by this subdivision
(b) have been completed. A copy of the certificate of occupancy, when issued,
shall be maintained on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-23 MOBILE HOMES; PLACEMENT; RESTRICTIONS.
   No mobile home may be placed on an individual mobile home space which does
not front on an improved street or drive or with respect to which not all of
the required improvements have been completed.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-24 ADDITIONS; PERMIT.
   No additions increasing the floor area of mobile homes within a mobile home
park shall be constructed unless the materials, finish, and design of the added
part are substantially the same as those of the mobile home, the quality of
construction is equal to, or better, than that of the mobile home, and the
addition would not increase the density of the mobile home park beyond seven
dwelling units per gross acre. No such construction may be commenced until a
permit therefor shall have been issued by the Development Services Director
pursuant to an application made by the owner of the mobile home on a form
prescribed by the Director.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-25 LICENSEE; DUTY; GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the person to whom a license to establish, maintain,
and operate a mobile home park has been issued to comply, and to effect
compliance by all other persons, with all of the requirements of this
subdivision (b) of this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-26 LICENSE VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO CEASE.
   If it shall appear to the Development Services Director that the holder of a
license to establish, maintain, and operate a mobile home park is violating any
provision of this subdivision (b) of this article, the Director shall notify
such holder in writing to cease and desist from such violation within a
reasonable period of time to be specified in the notice.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-27 LICENSE; REVOCATION; SUSPENSION; GROUNDS.
   A willful, or willfully negligent, failure on the part of a holder of a
license to establish, maintain, and operate a mobile home park, to comply with
any provision of this subdivision (b) of this article, or any failure to comply
with an order of the Development Services Director to cease and desist from a
violation of such provisions shall constitute grounds for revocation or
suspension of the license by the Director as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-28 LICENSE; REVOCATION; SUSPENSION; PROCEDURE.
   If it shall appear to the Development Services Director that there has
occurred on the part of a holder of a license to establish, maintain, and
operate a mobile home park a failure of compliance of the type described in §
25-9-26 of this article, the Director shall:
   (A)   Enter a written finding that it so appears, which finding shall
specify the apparent failure;
   (B)   Set for hearing the question whether such failure has occurred and the
license should not be revoked or suspended because of the failure, which
hearing shall be held not less than 21 days after service of a notice upon the
holder of the license as hereinafter provided; and
   (C)   Serve or cause to be served upon the holder of the license personally,
or by certified mail addressed to the holder at his or her last known business
address, a written notice of such finding and of such hearing. If, after such
notice and such a hearing, the Director finds that such a failure of compliance
on the part of the holder of the license has occurred, and that future
compliance by the holder of the license with all of the provisions of this
subdivision (b) of this article is not reasonably to be anticipated, the
Director shall enter an order so determining and revoking the license, or,
alternatively, if the Director finds that future compliance by the holder of
the license with all of the provisions of this subdivision (b) of this article
reasonably is to be anticipated, the Director shall enter an order so
determining and, in the latter event, may suspend the license, either with
respect to the whole of the mobile home park or with respect to only a
specified part thereof, for a period not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-29 LICENSE; ISSUANCE; AFTER REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Anything in this subdivision (b) of this article to the contrary
notwithstanding, no license to establish, maintain, or operate a mobile home
park shall be issued to the holder of a license which has been revoked by the
Development Services Director, or which has been suspended by the Director and
the suspension of which has not expired, or, if the holder is an individual, to
the spouse of the holder or any firm or corporation in which the holder owns an
interest.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-30 NONCONFORMING PARKS; DEFINED; REQUIREMENTS; LICENSE.
   Any mobile home park which is physically in existence on the date of
adoption of this article, but which does not comply with all applicable
provisions of this article, shall be considered a nonconforming mobile home
park. Such nonconforming mobile home park shall conform to:
   (A)   The provisions of
Chapter 23 of this code of ordinances as such chapter existed on the date of
enactment of this article; and
   (B)   The requirements of §§ 25-9-17 through 25-9-20 and 25-9-24 of this
article. Any land area added to a nonconforming mobile home park shall conform
to all requirements of this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-9-31 LESSEES; AGENTS; PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this subdivision (b) of this article shall apply to
lessees and to agents of owners or lessees of mobile home parks, as well as to
the owners thereof, except where, and to the extent that, the nature of the
subject matter, or the context, is such that the provision clearly is not
applicable to lessees or, as the case may be, to agents of owners or lessees of
such parks.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 10: TRAVEL TRAILERS
Section
(a) General Provisions
   
25-10-1   Travel trailers; occupancy; location
   
25-10-2   Same; provisions applicable
(b) Trailer Parks
   
25-10-3   Trailer parks; provisions applicable
   
25-10-4   Trailer spaces; size
   
25-10-5   Sewer facilities; requirements
   
25-10-6   Electrical system; requirements
   
25-10-7   Service building; required
   
25-10-8   Trailer spaces; occupancy; duration
(a) GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 25-10-1 TRAVEL TRAILERS; OCCUPANCY; LOCATION.
   No person shall occupy any travel trailer outside a trailer park which is
licensed under this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-10-2 SAME; PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of subdivision (a) of Article 9 of this chapter, except § 25-
9-1, shall be applicable, also, to travel trailers.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(b) TRAILER PARKS
§ 25-10-3 TRAILER PARKS; PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of subdivision (b) of Article 9 of this chapter, except §§
25-9-11(D), 25-9-13, and 25-9-23, shall be applicable, also, to travel trailer
parks and to travel trailers in travel trailer parks.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-10-4 TRAILER SPACES; SIZE.
   All spaces in a trailer park for the parking of travel trailers shall be not
less than 20 feet by 60 feet in size. Subject to such restriction, the size of
such spaces shall be determined by the owner of the trailer park.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-10-5 SEWER FACILITIES; REQUIREMENTS.
   Sewer facilities for travel trailers, if provided in a trailer park, shall
conform to the provisions of the municipal code pertaining to sewers.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-10-6 ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; REQUIREMENTS.
   A system for furnishing electric power to travel trailers, if constructed
and if power is provided therefrom to such trailers, shall conform to this
municipal code.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-10-7 SERVICE BUILDING; REQUIRED.
   A service building shall be provided for all travel trailers in a trailer
park. Such building and the facilities therein shall comply, not only with the
following requirements, but also with the provisions of this municipal code
pertaining to buildings or facilities of such types, and with all rules and
regulations of the Nebraska Department of Health.
   (A)   Construction. The service building shall be of permanent type
construction and shall be properly protected from damage by ordinary uses and
by decay, corrosion, termites, and other destructive elements. Exterior
portions shall be of such materials, and be so constructed and protected, as to
prevent entrance or penetration of moisture and weather.
   (B)   Laundry and sanitary facilities. The service building shall contain
laundry facilities and separate shower facilities. It also shall contain a
minimum of three flush toilets and three lavatories for each sex, and three
urinals for the male sex, per each 100 travel trailer spaces, or part of such
number. The service building shall be located not more than 200 feet from any
travel trailer.
   (C)   Walls; partitions; ventilation. All rooms containing sanitary or
laundry facilities shall have sound-resistant walls extending to the ceiling
between male and female sanitary facilities. Walls and partitions around
showers, bathtubs, lavatories, and other plumbing fixtures shall be constructed
of dense, nonabsorbent, waterproof material, or be covered with moisture-
resistant material. All such rooms shall have not less than one window that can
be easily opened, or a mechanical device that will adequately ventilate the
room.
   (D)   Toilets; shower stalls. Toilets shall be located in separate
compartments equipped with self-closing doors. Shower stalls shall be of the
individual type. Rooms containing toilets or showers shall be screened to
prevent direct view of the interior when the exterior doors of the building are
open.
   (E)   Water. Hot and cold water shall be furnished to every lavatory, sink.
bathtub, shower, and laundry fixture, and cold water shall be furnished to
every water closet and urinal, in a service building.
   (F)   Illumination. Illumination levels in service buildings shall be
maintained as follows:
      (1)   General task areas shall be illuminated by not less than five foot-
candles;
      (2)   The laundry room work area shall be illuminated by not less than 40
foot-candles; and
      (3)   The area in front of mirrors in the toilet rooms shall be
illuminated by not less than 40 foot-candles.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-10-8 TRAILER SPACES; OCCUPANCY; DURATION.
   No travel trailer shall be permitted to occupy a parking site in a trailer
park for a period in excess of 15 days from the first date of occupancy.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 11: RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES
Section
   
25-11-1   Special right-of-way lines; established
   
25-11-2   Special right-of-way lines; Planning Commission
   
25-11-3   Special right-of-way lines; hearing; notice
   
25-11-4   Special right-of-way lines; City Council
   
25-11-5   Building permit; restriction
   
25-11-6   Setback lines; measurement
§ 25-11-1 SPECIAL RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES; ESTABLISHED.
   To facilitate future widening or re-aligning of existing major streets and
the establishing of major streets in the future, special street right-of-way
lines shown on the maps referred to in Article 1 (as originally enacted or
hereafter amended) of this chapter, are established in this article. Such
special street right-of-way lines are established in the exercise, and to the
extent of the city’s zoning power only, and nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to constitute the establishing or dedication of a public street, or
the taking of private property for that purpose.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-11-2 SPECIAL RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES; PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission may initiate proceedings, or hear and determine
applications, to establish additional special street right-of-way lines for the
purpose of facilitating future widening or re-aligning of existing major
streets, or the establishing of major streets in the future.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-11-3 SPECIAL RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES; HEARING; NOTICE.
   A proposal to establish additional special street right-of-way lines shall
be set for hearing before the Planning Commission, and notice of the hearing
shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city not
less than seven days before the hearing.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-11-4 SPECIAL RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES; CITY COUNCIL.
   When the Planning Commission has made a recommendation to the City Council
concerning the establishment of additional right-of-way lines, the City Council
shall set the proposal for hearing and notice of the hearing shall be given as
required in the case of other proposals to amend the city’s zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-11-5 BUILDING PERMIT; RESTRICTION.
   After the Planning Commission shall have caused notice of a hearing to be
published as provided in § 25-11-3 of this article, and prior to any final
action on the proposal by the City Council, no building permit may be issued
for the construction of a building or structure which, if constructed in
accordance with the plans on which the building permit is sought, would violate
any proposed or recommended special street right-of-way line if adopted by the
City Council in such proceedings. Nor may any public improvement or utility
facility be installed during this period unless the City Council shall
specifically authorize or approve the same; provided, nothing in this section
shall be construed in such manner as to impair the obligation of contracts of
privately-owned public utilities or to constitute the taking of property of
such utilities.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-11-6 SETBACK LINES; MEASUREMENT.
   If a special street right-of-way line has been or is established for any lot
or tract of land subject to this chapter, a required setback must be measured
from such special street right-of-way line.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 12: NONCONFORMING USES
Section
   
25-12-1   Article; scope
   
25-12-2   Nonconforming use; requirements; general; burden to show facts
   
25-12-3   Area requirements; compliance; required
   
25-12-4   Building; structure; completion
   
25-12-5   Building or structure; repair
   
25-12-6   Building or structure; enlargement; moving
   
25-12-7   Building or structure; damage
   
25-12-8   Building or structure; low value; limitation of time
   
25-12-9   Building or structure; different nonconforming use
   
25-12-10   Vacant property; limitation of time
   
25-12-11   Residence buildings; exceptions
   
25-12-12   Manufactured homes; exception
   
25-12-13   Floodplain Overlay Zone; uses
   
25-12-14   Same; structure; enlargement; alteration
   
25-12-15   Feedlots; corrals
   
25-12-16   Lot; nonconforming
§ 25-12-1 ARTICLE; SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article govern all nonconforming uses.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-2 NONCONFORMING USE; REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL; BURDEN TO SHOW FACTS.
   Any use of a lot or tract of land which existed, and any use of a building
or structure which was in existence or the construction of which had begun, on
the date when this chapter was enacted, and which was lawful immediately prior
to the enactment of this chapter, constitutes a nonconforming use and may be
continued although such use fails to conform to regulations provided in this
chapter, except as otherwise provided in this article as originally enacted or
hereafter amended. The burden to show the facts necessary to establish the
existence of a nonconforming use, and of a right to continue the same, shall be
upon the person asserting that the lot, tract of land, building, or structure
enjoys such status.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-3 AREA REQUIREMENTS; COMPLIANCE; REQUIRED.
   The failure of a building in use to comply with any yard, court, lot area,
lot area per dwelling unit, or lot coverage required by this chapter is not a
nonconforming use.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-4 BUILDING; STRUCTURE; COMPLETION.
   Any building or structure, the construction or planned use of which does not
conform to the requirements of this chapter at the time when this chapter was
enacted, but a building permit for which had been issued and the construction
of which had been commenced at the time when this chapter was enacted, may be
completed in accordance with the plans in respect which the building permit was
issued if the construction is completed within one year after the building
permit was issued. In such event, such planned use of the building or structure
is a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-5 BUILDING OR STRUCTURE; REPAIR.
   A building or structure whose use is nonconforming shall be kept repaired in
sound condition.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-6 BUILDING OR STRUCTURE; ENLARGEMENT; MOVING.
   (A)   A building or structure whose use is nonconforming may not be enlarged
or increased to occupy more area than the building occupied on its lot or tract
of land when this chapter was enacted, nor may its nonconforming use be
enlarged or increased within the building or structure; provided, if the only
nonconforming use is a legal nonconforming use in relation to setback
requirements, the existence of such nonconforming use shall not prohibit:
      (1)   The construction of an addition to a building or structure, or the
construction of an accessory building, which does not otherwise fail to conform
to the requirements of this chapter; or
      (2)   The enlargement or increase of a use within the building or
structure which does not otherwise fail to conform to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Neither may a building or structure whose use is nonconforming be
moved in whole or in part to any other part of a lot or tract of land it
occupies so long as any part of its use is nonconforming.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-7 BUILDING OR STRUCTURE; DAMAGE.
   A building or structure whose use is nonconforming, and which is damaged or
partially destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake, or any other calamity so
that its fair market value after the damage or partial destruction is more than
50% of its appraised value established for tax purposes immediately before the
damage or partial destruction, may be restored to its former condition and its
nonconforming use continued if restoration is begun within one year after the
damage or partial destruction and diligently continued to completion. If the
fair market value of such a building or structure after such damage or partial
destruction is less than 50% of its appraised value established for tax
purposes immediately before the damage or partial destruction, it may be
repaired, restored, or reconstructed only if after repair, restoration, or
reconstruction, the building or structure complies with all requirements of
this chapter. Provided, any repair or restoration of a building or structure
must comply fully with the provisions of this municipal code regulating such
work.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-8 BUILDING OR STRUCTURE; LOW VALUE; LIMITATION OF TIME.
   The nonconforming use of land on which at the time of enactment of this
chapter there is no building having an assessed valuation for tax purposes in
excess of $750 shall be converted to a use conforming with this chapter within
a period of five years if located within an R District, or within three years
if located within an O-P, C, or M District.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-9 BUILDING OR STRUCTURE; DIFFERENT NONCONFORMING USE.
   The use of any building or structure which is nonconforming may not be
changed to a different nonconforming use, except one that is of the same or a
more restrictive classification.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-10 VACANT PROPERTY; LIMITATION OF TIME.
   A lot, tract of land, building, or structure, or any combination thereof,
whose use is nonconforming and which becomes and remains vacant and unoccupied
for a continuous period of one year may only be re-occupied for a use that
conforms to all the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-11 RESIDENCE BUILDINGS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Anything in any other provision of this article to the contrary
notwithstanding, the restrictions in §§
25-15-6,
25-15-7, and
25-15-10 of this chapter shall not apply to a residence use if there is no
increase in the number of dwelling units in such residence building unless such
use is in a Floodplain Overlay Zone or a Floodplain District.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-12-12 MANUFACTURED HOMES; EXCEPTION.
   Manufactured homes shall comply with the provisions of this article
pertaining to buildings; provided, a manufactured home may be replaced at any
time by a more recent model home; provided, further, if the manufactured home
is in a Floodplain Overlay Zone or Floodplain District, it shall comply with
all of the provisions of Article 19 of this chapter, as amended, applicable to
manufactured homes.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-12-13 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE; USES.
   Anything in any other provision of this article to the contrary
notwithstanding, a use of any structure or other use of premises in a
Floodplain Overlay Zone which existed and was lawful immediately prior to the
enactment of
Article 19 of this chapter, and which still existed on November 12, 1979, may
be continued even if it was not, and is not, in conformity with all provisions
of such article or amendments thereof; provided, no such use, if discontinued
for a period of one year, may be re-established. Any use which does not conform
to the provisions of Article 19 of this chapter or any amendment thereof may
not be changed to another non-conforming use.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-12-14 SAME; STRUCTURE; ENLARGEMENT; ALTERATION.
   No structure in a Floodplain Overlay Zone which, although lawful immediately
prior to the enactment of
Article 19 of this chapter, is not in conformity with all provisions of such
Article 19 of this chapter as amended, may be enlarged or otherwise altered
except in conformity with the requirements of such article as amended;
provided, the ground floor area of any structure in existence on June 26, 1978,
may be enlarged:
   (A)   If the enlargement does not exceed 25% or 250 square feet, whichever
is greater; and
   (B)   If, in addition, the value of the structure after the enlargement does
not exceed 150% of the value of the structure before the enlargement.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord., 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-12-15 FEEDLOTS; CORRALS.
   Anything in this article to the contrary notwithstanding, this article shall
not be construed to prohibit:
   (A)   The expansion of a nonconforming use of a feedlot or corral from the
level of use existing at the time of enactment of this section to a level not
exceeding the highest level which was attained during the five-year period
immediately preceding the expansion, providing no part of the feedlot or corral
is situated within 1,000 feet of a nonagricultural residence;
   (B)   The moving of a nonconforming feedlot or corral which is in use at the
time of enactment of this section to a location such that no part of the
feedlot or corral is situated within 1,000 feet of a nonagricultural residence,
providing the use thereafter does not exceed the highest level of use of the
feedlot or corral which was attained during the five-year period immediately
preceding commencement of the moving; or
   (C)   A resumption of the use of a nonconforming feedlot or corral which had
been wholly discontinued, providing:
      (1)   The resumption occurs not more than five years after enactment of
this section, or more than five years after the prior use was terminated,
whichever is later;
      (2)   The resumed use does not exceed the highest level of use which was
attained during the five-year period immediately preceding discontinuance of
the use; and
      (3)   No part of the feedlot or corral is situated within 1,000 feet of a
nonagricultural residence.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-12-16 LOT; NONCONFORMING.
   A lot of record which was lawfully in existence at the time of the adoption
of this chapter, the width or area, or both, of which is less than the minimum
requirement of this chapter nevertheless may be occupied and used in conformity
with all other requirements for its zone if:
   (A)   Minimum lot area and minimum lot width are each a minimum of 50% of
what would otherwise be required; and
   (B)   All yard and lot coverage requirements of this chapter are met.
(Ord. 3971, passed - -2008)
ARTICLE 13: SPECIAL PERMITS
Section
   
25-13-1   Special permit; nature
   
25-13-2   Special permit; standards; procedures; adoption
   
25-13-3   Special permits; issued; when; conditions
   
25-13-4   Application; fee
   
25-13-5   Application; hearing; notice
   
25-13-6   Findings
   
25-13-7   Planning Commission; decision; time
   
25-13-8   Special permit; pending variance
   
25-13-9   Special permit; duration; building permit
   25-13-10   Building permit; certificate of occupancy
   
25-13-11   Special permit; transfer; termination
   
25-13-12   Perimeter fence; applicant
   
25-13-13   Perimeter fence; application fee
   
25-13-14   Perimeter fence; findings; bond
   
25-13-15   Perimeter fence; term
   
25-13-16   Perimeter fence; default; revocation
   
25-13-17   Perimeter fence; public ways
   
25-13-18   Subdivision identification sign; bond
§ 25-13-1 SPECIAL PERMIT; NATURE.
   A special permit is a permit for a use of a lot, tract of land, building, or
structure which is permissible under this chapter only if authorized by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-2 SPECIAL PERMIT; STANDARDS; PROCEDURES; ADOPTION.
   The Planning Commission, before hearing or acting upon any application for a
special permit under any provision of this chapter, shall, by resolution, adopt
standards and procedures to be applied and followed by the Commission for the
purpose of equitably and judiciously granting such special permits, which
standards and procedures shall be subject to approval by the City Council, all
as provided by state law. Such resolution(s), when adopted, shall govern all
proceedings before and by the Planning Commission concerning special permits.
The adoption by the Planning Commission of a resolution in the following form:
   BE IT RESOLVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SCOTTSBLUFF,
NEBRASKA, that the Planning Commission hereby adopts “as the standards and
procedures to be applied and followed by it for the purpose of equitably and
judiciously granting special permits under
Chapter 25 of the municipal code as now existing or hereafter amended” all of
the standards and procedures prescribed in such chapter, as now existing or
hereafter amended, concerning the issuance of special permits, shall constitute
adoption by the Commission of the standards and procedures required by the
statute; and the standards and procedures thus adopted by the Commission shall
be deemed to have been approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-3 SPECIAL PERMITS; ISSUED; WHEN; CONDITIONS.
   The Planning Commission may issue a special permit for the use of a lot,
tract of land, building, or structure in circumstances and a manner authorized
by other articles of this chapter if the Commission finds the proposed use:
   (A)   Provides a service required by the neighborhood or community and is
consistent with sound principles of land use;
   (B)   Will not be injurious to the use of neighboring lots, tracts of land,
buildings, or structures;
   (C)   Will not create special hazards or problems for the area in which it
is located;
   (D)   Is related to and harmonious with the general plan for the area in
which it is located, as indicated by this chapter; and
   (E)   Otherwise is in accordance with the intents and purposes of this
chapter. The Commission may make the use which is authorized in the special
permit subject to reasonable conditions which in the discretion of the Planning
Commission are necessary to carry out the intents and purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-4 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   An application for a special permit shall be signed by the owner of
the lot, tract of land, building, or structure in respect of which the permit
is sought and, if the use is proposed by a person other than the owner, by such
other person, and shall be filed with the Development Services Director.
   (B)   The application shall be addressed to the Planning Commission and
shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the lot or tract of land and the building or
structure thereon, if there is any, for which the special permit is requested;
      (2)   The name or names of the owner or owners;
      (3)   A description of the nature of the use for which the special permit
is requested;
      (4)   A statement of the section of this chapter which is asserted to
authorize the use for which the special permit is requested; and
      (5)   A statement of the reason or reasons why the special permit should
be issued. The application shall be accompanied by the filing fee provided in
Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   This section shall have no application to applications for special
permit to construct and maintain a perimeter fence.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-5 APPLICATION; HEARING; NOTICE.
   The Secretary of the Planning Commission, at the request of the Development
Services Director, shall promptly set the application for public hearing. The
Secretary shall give notice of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing in
the same manner as notice is required to be given by Neb. RS 19-904 and 19-905.
Any person entitled to notice may waive notice of a hearing in writing. Such
waiver must accompany the application.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-6 FINDINGS.
   No special permit shall be issued unless the Planning Commission shall find
in writing that there exists as a basis for the permit the facts that under
this chapter authorize issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-7 PLANNING COMMISSION; DECISION; TIME.
   If the Planning Commission fails to act on an application after three
regular meetings of the Commission, the Commission shall be deemed to have
issued the special permit effective on the date of the second regular meeting
without conditions; provided, if the applicant requests or consents to a
continuance of the hearing beyond such date, the preceding provisions of this
section shall not apply.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-8 SPECIAL PERMIT; PENDING VARIANCE.
   No special permit may be issued while an application for a variance is
pending on hearing or determination by the Board of Adjustment or on appeal
from its decision.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-9 SPECIAL PERMIT; DURATION; BUILDING PERMIT.
   If the use for which a special permit is required also requires a building
permit, a special permit issued by the Planning Commission shall expire one
year after the day it is issued unless the required building permit is issued
within one year after the special permit is issued.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-10 BUILDING PERMIT; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Neither a building permit nor a certificate of occupancy for a use requiring
a special permit may be issued before a special permit is issued by the
Planning Commission. If the Commission issues a special permit for a use which
requires a building permit or a certificate of occupancy, or both, neither a
building permit nor, as the case may be, certificate of occupancy may be issued
until a ten-day appeal period has expired.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-11 SPECIAL PERMIT; TRANSFER; TERMINATION.
   A special permit may not be transferred and, if a change of ownership of the
lot or tract of land for which the special permit was issued occurs, the
special permit shall thereupon terminate.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-12 PERIMETER FENCE; APPLICANT.
   A special permit to construct and maintain a perimeter fence may only be
issued to and held by a corporation:
   (A)   Organized and having perpetual existence under the laws of the state;
   (B)   Having a registered agent in the county;
   (C)   Having under its articles of incorporation power to construct and
maintain such a fence;
   (D)   Which owns the lands or part of the lands on which the fence is to be
constructed or, if it does not own any, or owns only a part, of such lands, has
a clear legal right to construct and maintain the fence on the lands which it
does not own;
   (E)   Which has entered into covenants in writing with the owners of any
lands which the corporation does not own to construct and maintain the entire
fence in perpetuity, which covenants shall run with the lands, bind also the
corporation’s successors, and be in recordable form;
   (F)   Which has recorded similar covenants with respect to lands which the
corporation still owns; and
   (G)   Which has otherwise complied with the requirements for a special
permit prescribed in this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-13 PERIMETER FENCE; APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   An application for a special permit to construct and maintain a
perimeter fence may be signed only by a corporation which meets or will meet
all of the requirements specified in Neb. RS 25-13-12. The application shall
allege, in addition to the matters specified in Neb. RS 25-13-4, that the
corporation has complied, or before issuance of a permit will comply, in full
with each of the requirements specified in Neb. RS 25-13-12, stating the facts
with respect to each requirement in such section.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A copy, certified by the secretary of the corporation, of the
articles of incorporation and any amendments thereto, showing the dates of
filing of each with the Secretary of State; and
      (2)   If the fence, or a part thereof, is to be constructed upon lands
not owned by the corporation, a list of the names and addresses of the owners
of such lands, together with a sample copy of the written covenants which the
corporation has entered or will enter into with such owners on behalf of
itself, its successors, and assigns concerning the construction and maintenance
of the fence; and, with respect to the lands of which the corporation still is
the record title owner, a sample copy of the written covenants which the
corporation has executed and recorded, or will execute and record, whereby the
corporation has bound or will bind itself, its successors, and assigns to
construct and maintain the fence. The application shall also be accompanied by
a filing fee in the amount specified in provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of
this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-14 PERIMETER FENCE; FINDINGS; BOND.
   If the Planning Commission finds that a special permit to construct and
maintain a perimeter fence should issue it may make the special permit, when
issued, subject to reasonable conditions, and shall, before a special permit is
issued, fix the amount of a bond to be filed by the corporation with the City
Clerk, and by him or her approved, prior to issuance of the special permit. The
bond shall be executed by the corporation and by a corporate surety authorized
to do business in the state. The bond shall be payable to the city to reimburse
the city for any damage the city may sustain in the event the corporation, its
successors, or assigns shall fail to construct and maintain the perimeter
fence, or any part thereof, in compliance with the requirements of Article 4 of
this chapter, as amended, and of this article, as amended (including, but not
limited to, reasonable expense, the city may incur in obtaining or attempting
to obtain compliance by the corporation, its successors, or assigns with such
articles, whether through or without litigation); and the condition of the bond
shall be that the corporation, its successors, and assigns, shall construct and
maintain the perimeter fence in compliance with the requirements of Article 4
of this chapter, as amended, and of this article, as amended; otherwise, the
bond shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-15 PERIMETER FENCE; TERM.
   The permit shall, in the sound discretion of the Planning Commission, be for
a permanent use or for use for a term of years, and regardless, shall be
subject to the conditions specified in §§ 25-13-16 and 25-13-17 of this
article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-16 PERIMETER FENCE; DEFAULT; REVOCATION.
   If the corporation shall fail to construct or to maintain the perimeter
fence in compliance with the requirements of Article 4 of this chapter, as
amended, and of this article, as amended, the Development Services Director
shall so notify the corporation (or as the case may be, its successors or
assigns) and the surety company in a writing mailed to each by certified mail
addressed to the last known address of each. If the default shall not have been
corrected within 90 days thereafter, the Planning Commission thereafter may,
after notice to the corporation, surety company, and owners of record of the
lands on or adjacent to which the fence, or affected segment of the fence, was
constructed, and hearing order the fence repaired, replaced, or removed in
whole or in part, and either before, after, or in the absence of an order to
repair, replace, or remove the fence, may revoke the special permit in whole or
in part. The remedies herein provided shall not be exclusive of, but cumulative
to, any other remedies at law or equity which the city or owners of affected
lands may have by reason of the presence, nature, condition, or absence of the
fence, or any part thereof, and resort to one remedy shall not bar a resort to
another unless the remedies are inherently mutually exclusive.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-17 PERIMETER FENCE; PUBLIC WAYS.
   Anything in this or any other article of this chapter to the contrary
notwithstanding, any permit that may be issued by the Planning Commission to
construct and maintain a perimeter fence within the right-of-way of a public
street or alley or other public way which then is outside the corporate limits
of the city shall be and remain without prejudice to any rights with respect to
such street, alley, or other public way which are vested in the public by
operation of law; and if such street, alley, or public way subsequently shall
be annexed to the city, shall be and remain subject to the power of the City
Council to order removal of obstructions from any streets, alleys, or public
ways within the corporate limits of the city. Any permit which the Planning
Commission may propose to issue concerning the construction and maintenance of
a perimeter fence within the right-of-way of a public street or alley or other
public way which then is within the corporate limits of the city shall be and
remain subject to the power of the City Council to order removal of
obstructions from any streets, alleys, or public ways within the corporate
limits of the city, and no such permit shall be issued by the Planning
Commission prior to authorization of the proposed obstruction by the City
Council. Such authorization by the City Council, if granted, shall in terms
reserve to the City Council the right subsequently to order the obstruction
removed, and may be upon such other terms and conditions as the City Council
may prescribe.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-13-18 SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN; BOND.
   If the Planning Commission finds that a special permit to erect and maintain
a subdivision identification sign or signs in a residence zone should issue, it
may make the special permit, when issued, subject to reasonable conditions, and
shall, before a special permit is issued, fix the amount of a bond to be filed
by the owner of the sign(s) with the City Clerk, and by him or her approved,
prior to issuance of the special permit. The bond shall be executed by the
owner and by a corporate surety authorized to do business in the state. The
bond shall be payable to the city to reimburse the city for any damage the city
may sustain in the event the owner, its successors, or assigns shall fail to
construct and maintain the sign, or any part thereof, in compliance with the
requirements of Article 6 of this chapter, as amended, (including, but not
limited to, reasonable expense the city may incur in obtaining or attempting to
obtain compliance by the owner, its successors, or assigns with such article,
whether through or without litigation); and the condition of the bond shall be
that the owner, its successors, and assigns shall erect and maintain the sign
in compliance with the requirements of Article 6 of this chapter, as amended;
otherwise, the bond shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 14: VARIANCES
Section
   
25-14-1   Application; incident to appeal
   
25-14-2   Application; filing; form
   
25-14-3   Hearing; determination
   
25-14-4   Variance; expiration
   
25-14-5   Building permit; issued; when
§ 25-14-1 APPLICATION; INCIDENT TO APPEAL.
   An application for a variance will be heard by the Board of Adjustment only
if the application is made:
   (A)   After the appropriate officer or employee of the city shall have
denied an application for a building permit or, as the case may be, for a
certificate of occupancy in respect of the proposed use which is the subject of
the application for a variance; and
   (B)   As an incident to an appeal from such a decision, as provided in
Article 17 of this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-14-2 APPLICATION; FILING; FORM.
   (A)   The application shall be in writing and filed with the Development
Services Director, and may either be incorporated in, or be filed with, the
copy of the notice of appeal filed with the Director.
   (B)   The application shall be addressed to the Board of Adjustment and
shall state:
      (1)   The description of the lot, tract of land, building, or structure
for which the variance is sought;
      (2)   The name or names of the owner or owners;
      (3)   The Code Administrator II has denied an application for a building
permit or, as the case may be, for a certificate of occupancy in respect of the
proposed use which is the subject of the application for a variance;
      (4)   The nature of the variance sought;
      (5)   The exceptional practical difficulty or exceptional and undue
hardship to be overcome by a granting of the requested variance; and
      (6)   Such other information as the Board by rule shall require.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-14-3 HEARING; DETERMINATION.
   The Board of Adjustment shall provide by rule for the setting of
applications for hearing, which rule shall provide for hearings to be held with
reasonable promptness. If the Board fails to act on an application after three
regular meetings of the Board, the Board shall be deemed to have granted the
requested variance on the day of the third regular meeting date without
conditions or modifications; provided, if the applicant requests or consents to
a continuance of the hearing beyond such date, the preceding provisions in this
sentence shall not apply.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-14-4 VARIANCE; EXPIRATION.
   If a variance is granted for use requiring construction, modification, or
alteration of a building or structure for which a building permit is required,
the right to such variance shall expire unless the required building permit is
issued within six months after the variance is granted.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-14-5 BUILDING PERMIT; ISSUED; WHEN.
   (A)   If the Board of Adjustment grants an application for a variance in a
situation in which a building permit is required, such building permit may not
be issued until the statutory period for appeal from the decision of the Board
has expired.
   (B)   No building permit may be issued:
      (1)   While an application for a variance is pending before the Board; or
      (2)   In event the Board denies the application, unless the decision of
the Board is reversed by a court.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 15: REZONING; AMENDMENTS
Section
   
25-15-1   Initiation; procedures
   
25-15-2   Petition; contents
   
25-15-3   Planning Commission; referral to
   
25-15-4   Planning Commission; hearing; recommendation
   
25-15-5   Planning Commission; recommendation
   
25-15-6   City Council; hearing; notice
   
25-15-7   City Council; decision
   
25-15-8   Petition; withdrawal
   
25-15-9   Petition; denial
   
25-15-10   Permits; certificates; issue; when
   
25-15-11   Planned Business Center; general requirements
   
25-15-12   Planned Business Center; zone; petition; tentative development plan
   
25-15-13   Planned Business Center; tentative plan; contents
   
25-15-14   PBC District; effective; when; condition subsequent
   
25-15-15   Final plan; filing
   
25-15-16   Final plan; form; modification of tentative plan
   
25-15-17   Final plan; contents
   
25-15-18   Final plan; approval
   
25-15-19   Final plan; disapproval; reconsideration
   
25-15-20   Final plan; subsequent modification
   
25-15-21   Building and improvement plans; conformance
   
25-15-22   Building permit; issue; when
   
25-15-23   Construction; time; speculation
   
25-15-24   Construction; failure to construct
   
25-15-25   Time limits; extension
   
25-15-26   Reports
   
25-15-27   Floodplain Overlay Zone; amendments
§ 25-15-1 INITIATION; PROCEDURES.
   Proposals to amend, supplement, extend, change, modify, or repeal any zoning
regulation, restriction, or condition, or to change any boundary of a zone
established by this chapter may be initiated in any of the following ways:
   (A)   On a motion adopted by the City Council or the Planning Commission;
   (B)   On a petition addressed to the City Council and filed with the
Development Services Director by the owner or owners of 50% or more of multiple
lots or tracts of land within the area in respect of which the change is
proposed and the owners of 50% or more of the lots or tracts of land within 300
feet of the area in respect of which the change is proposed; or
   (C)   On a petition addressed to the City Council and filed with the
Development Services Director by the owner or owners of a lot or lots, or tract
or tracts of land in respect of which the change is requested. The petition
shall be accompanied by the filing fee provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this
code of ordinances.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-2 PETITION; CONTENTS.
   A petition of the type referred to in § 25-15-1(B) and (C) of this article
shall contain the following information and allegations:
   (A)   Legal description of the property involved;
   (B)   Statement of the petitioner(s) that the proposed use would provide a
service required by the neighborhood and/or community and be consistent with
sound principles of land use; would not be injurious to the use of neighboring
tracts of land, lots or blocks or unplatted land, buildings or structures;
would not create special hazards or problems for the area in which it be
located; is related to, and would be harmonious and consistent with, the
comprehensive development plan for the area in which it would be located, as
indicated by this chapter and the city’s adopted comprehensive development
plan; and otherwise would be in accordance with the intents and purposes of
this chapter; and
   (C)   A statement of reason(s) why the petition should be granted.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-3 PLANNING COMMISSION; REFERRAL TO.
   A proposal made in compliance with § 25-15-1 of this article shall be
referred by the City Clerk to the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-4 PLANNING COMMISSION; HEARING; RECOMMENDATION.
   The Planning Commission shall hear and consider the proposal at its next
regular meeting or at a special meeting, whichever occurs first, but not later
than 30 days after the proposal has been referred to it. The Planning
Commission shall cause notice to be served upon the board of education of each
school district to be affected by the proposal as required by the state
statutes.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-5 PLANNING COMMISSION; RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make a written recommendation to the
City Council within 70 days after the proposal has been referred to the
Commission.
   (B)   The Commission may recommend:
      (1)   Rejection of the proposal entirely;
      (2)   Approval of the proposal without amendment; or
      (3)   Approval of the proposal with amendments the Commission finds
appropriate.
   (C)   Failure of the Commission to act on the proposal within the time
specified in this section shall constitute a recommendation of approval of the
proposal without amendments; provided, if the applicant requests or consents to
a continuance, the preceding provisions of this section shall not apply.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-6 CITY COUNCIL; HEARING; NOTICE.
   After the City Council receives the written recommendation of the Planning
Commission, or after the time within which the Commission may act expires
without action by the Commission, the City Manager shall set the matter for a
public hearing at a regular meeting or a special meeting called for that
purpose, and shall cause notice of hearing to be given as required by statute.
Such notice shall be given by publication thereof in a paper of general
circulation in the city at least one time ten days prior to such hearing. Such
public hearing shall be held within 30 days after the recommendation of the
Commission has been received or are due, whichever occurs first, unless the
applicant requests or consents to a continuance or, if there be no applicant,
the City Council orders a continuance. A person entitled to notice may waive
notice in writing.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-7 CITY COUNCIL; DECISION.
   After hearing as provided for in this article, the City Council may:
   (A)   Deny the proposal;
   (B)   Grant the proposal; or
   (C)   Grant the proposal with modifications which were proposed at the
public hearing held by the Planning Commission and the public hearing held by
the City Council; provided, the City Council may make modifications which were
not proposed at the public hearing held by the Planning Commission or the City
Council if such modifications would not materially change the sense of the
basic proposal which was the subject of the hearings. The grant of a proposal,
with or without modifications, shall not effect an amendment of the city’s
zoning ordinance; such an amendment shall become effective only upon the
enactment and publication of an amending ordinance as provided by law.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-8 PETITION; WITHDRAWAL.
   A petition filed as provided in § 25-15-1 of this article may be withdrawn
with permission of either the Planning Commission or the City Council before
that body acts on it; provided, if public notice of a hearing on the petition
has been given as provided in this article, such hearing must be held.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-9 PETITION; DENIAL.
   If a petition has been denied by the City Council, the same proposal may not
be presented again by petition within one year after the date of filing of the
petition that was denied, unless either the Planning Commission or the City
Council gives special permission for such petition to be re-filed sooner.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-10 PERMITS; CERTIFICATES; ISSUE; WHEN.
   No department of the city may issue a building permit, certificate of
occupancy, or other pertinent permit when a hearing on a proposal, as provided
for in § 25-15-1 of this article, is pending before either the Planning
Commission or the City Council, or when the action of the City Council is the
subject of a pending judicial action, except as is required to repair and
maintain any building, structure, lot, or tract of land while the proposal is
pending.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-11 PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   A proposal to create a PBC District, and to construct therein a planned
business center, is subject to the requirements of §§ 25-15-1 to 25-15-10 of
this article and, also, to the additional requirements of the succeeding
sections of this article. It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, occupy,
or operate a planned business center not created in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-12 PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER; ZONE; PETITION; TENTATIVE
DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   A petition for creation of a Planned Business Center District shall be
addressed to the City Council and filed with the Development Services Director;
shall be accompanied by a tentative development plan (called tentative plan in
this article), which shall be filed with the petition; shall request both the
creation of a PBC District in a described area and approval of the tentative
plan; and shall be signed by the owner of the lot or lots, or tract or tracts
of land located in the proposed PBC District.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-13 PLANNED BUSINESS CENTER; TENTATIVE PLAN; CONTENTS.
   The tentative plan must include:
   (A)   A site plan showing the areas to be developed for buildings, the
anticipated total gross floor space, the area to be developed for parking, the
points of ingress and egress (including access streets where required), and
adjustments to be made for abutting lots, tracts of land, and zones;
   (B)   An architect’s preliminary sketches of buildings and landscaping;
   (C)   A statement of the types of businesses and uses proposed, and of the
market area to be served; and
   (D)   A statement of the ownership in the proposed PBC District.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-14 PBC DISTRICT; EFFECTIVE; WHEN; CONDITION SUBSEQUENT.
   If a proposal to create a PBC District is approved by the City Council, with
or without amendments, the creation of the PBC District is effective when the
ordinance approving the proposal becomes effective, subject to a condition
subsequent that a final development plan (called final plan in this article)
must be submitted to and approved by the City Council as provided in this
article. Upon failure to submit a final plan, or if the City Council shall make
final findings disapproving a final plan, the PBC District shall automatically
terminate and, if immediately prior to the creation of the zone, the land had
been otherwise zoned by an ordinance of the city, the land shall automatically
become subject again to such former zoning.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-15 FINAL PLAN; FILING.
   Within 24 months after the enactment of an ordinance creating a PBC
District, the owner or owners of the lot or lots, or tract or tracts of land
located in the PBC District must submit a final plan to the City Council for
approval.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-16 FINAL PLAN; FORM; MODIFICATION OF TENTATIVE PLAN.
   The final plan must conform to the tentative plan approved by the City
Council. The petitioner may, however, before the City Council acts on the final
plan file with the Development Services Director a request, addressed to the
City Council, for modification of the tentative plan as approved. If it shall
appear to the City Council that the use of the land in accordance with the
tentative plan as proposed to be modified may be of a substantially different
character, for zoning purposes, from the use of the land in accordance with the
tentative plan as approved, the City Council, before acting upon the request
for modifications, shall order the request referred to the Planning Commission,
and thereafter proceedings shall be had upon the request before the Planning
Commission and, subsequently, before the City Council as provided in §§ 25-15-
4 and 25-15-6 of this article. If a request for modification is approved, with
or without changes, by the City Council, the modification shall be incorporated
by the petitioner in the final plan.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-17 FINAL PLAN; CONTENTS.
   In addition to any modifications of the tentative plan approved as provided
in § 25-15-16 of this article, the final plan shall include:
   (A)   A site plan showing the areas to be developed for buildings, the areas
to be developed for parking, the location of pedestrian paths and vehicular
roads, the location of ingress and egress (including access streets where
required), the location and height of walls, provisions for loading and
unloading, the location, size, and number of signs, and the location and types
of improvements to be made in relating to the use of abutting lots or tracts of
land and other zones;
   (B)   Architect’s sketches of the proposed buildings and landscaping;
   (C)   Preliminary engineering plans of the improvements to be installed;
   (D)   A schedule for planned construction showing the anticipated completion
date;
   (E)   A statement of the types of businesses and uses proposed to be served;
and
   (F)   A statement of the ownership of the proposed planned business center.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-18 FINAL PLAN; APPROVAL.
   If the City Council finds that the final plan conforms to the tentative plan
as approved by the City Council and any modifications approved in accordance
with § 25-15-16 of this article, the City Council may approve the final plan by
resolution. The approval shall be endorsed on the final plan by the Mayor or,
in the event of his or her absence or disability, the Vice President of the
City Council.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-19 FINAL PLAN; DISAPPROVAL; RECONSIDERATION.
   If the City Council finds the final plan does not conform to the tentative
plan, with or without modifications approved in accordance with § 25-15-16 of
this article, and there is no petition pending to modify further the final plan
so that it will so conform, the City Council shall, by resolution, make
findings that the final plan fails to conform and disapprove it. The
Development Services Director shall promptly notify the petitioner that the
final plan has been disapproved and state the findings of the City Council. If
the petitioner does not file a petition to modify the proposed final plan
within 20 days after the City Council has disapproved the plan, the City
Council’s disapproval thereupon shall become final. If the petitioner does file
a petition to modify the final plan and it appears from the petition that the
proposed modifications are such that the final plan so modified will conform to
the tentative plan and modifications of it previously approved, the City
Council shall reconsider its action of disapproval at the next regular meeting
of the City Council or at a special meeting called for the purpose to meet
before the next regular City Council meeting. If, after reconsideration, the
City Council finds the modifications proposed to the disapproved final plan are
sufficient to cause it to conform to the tentative plan and any modifications
of the tentative plan previously approved, the City Council may, by resolution,
approve the final plan as thus modified.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-20 FINAL PLAN; SUBSEQUENT MODIFICATION.
   After a final plan has been approved, as provided in either §§ 25-15-18 or
25-15-19 of this article, an owner of the land may file with the Development
Services Director a petition, addressed to the City Council, to modify the
final plan. If it shall appear to the City Council that the use of the land in
accordance with the final plan as proposed to be modified may be of a
substantially different character, for zoning purposes, from the use of the
land in accordance with the final plan as approved, the City Council, before
acting upon the request for modifications, shall order the request referred to
the Planning Commission, and thereafter proceedings shall be had upon the
request before the Planning Commission and, subsequently, before the City
Council as provided in §§ 25-15-4 and 24-15-6 of this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-21 BUILDING AND IMPROVEMENT PLANS; CONFORMANCE.
   Building and improvement plans and specifications for a planned business
center, and each part thereof, shall conform to the final plan as approved by
the City Council.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-22 BUILDING PERMIT; ISSUE; WHEN.
   The Code Administrator II may not issue any building permit for a center
until:
   (A)   The plans and specifications for all buildings and improvements have
been approved by the Planning and Building Director as conforming to the final
plan; and
   (B)   A bond has been posted with the City Clerk in an amount fixed by the
Director, either in cash or with sureties satisfactory to the Director
conditioned upon installation of all improvements required in the final plan.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-23 CONSTRUCTION; TIME; SPECULATION.
   Construction of all buildings and improvements in conformance with the final
plan approved by the City Council shall be commenced within three years after
enactment of the ordinance creating the PBC District for the planned business
center. The holding of undeveloped lots or tracts of land in the PBC District
for speculative purposes is prohibited.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-24 CONSTRUCTION; FAILURE TO CONSTRUCT.
   If it shall appear to the City Council that the owner or owners of the land
in respect of which a final
plan for a planned business center has been approved by the City Council have
failed:
   (A)   To commence construction of the center within the time permitted by
this article;
   (B)   To complete construction of the center within a reasonable time after
construction is commenced; or
   (C)   To construct the center in conformance with the final plan, the City
Council may order referred to the Planning Commission the question whether the
final plan and the zoning of the land as PBC District should be revoked, or the
final plan should be modified and the size of the PBC District reduced.
Thereafter, proceedings shall be had with reference to such matter as provided
in §§ 25-15-4 and 25-15-6 of this article, and if the City Council, upon a
hearing, shall find that the construction of the center does not, in one or
more of the respects mentioned in this section, conform to the final plan, may
revoke approval of the final plan and repeal the ordinance creating the PBC
District, or may modify the final plan and by ordinance, reduce the area of the
PBC District to fit the completed construction, if any, as in the exercise of a
sound discretion will be most in accordance with the zoning purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-25 TIME LIMITS; EXTENSION.
   The City Council may, on written application and for good cause shown,
extend the time limits prescribed in the sections of this article pertaining
specifically to PBC Districts and planned business centers for a period not to
exceed 24 months in aggregate.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-26 REPORTS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, require the petitioner or the owner
or owners of the lots or tracts of land in respect of which a final plan has
been approved to submit written reports on the progress of development of the
planned business center.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-15-27 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this
article may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed to
reflect any and all changes in federal, state, or local regulations provided,
however, that no such action may be taken until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which citizens and parties in interest shall have an
opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. At least ten days
shall elapse between the date of this publication and the public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of such amendment will be provided to the Nebraska Department
of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency for review and
approval before being adopted.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
ARTICLE 16: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
25-16-1   Enforcement; entry; inspection
   
25-16-2   Certificate of occupancy; necessity
   
25-16-3   Certificate of occupancy; application; plan
   
25-16-4   Certificate of occupancy; fees
   
25-16-5   Certificate of occupancy; issued; when
   
25-16-6   Certificate of occupancy; contents; file; copies
   
25-16-7   Public nuisance; declaration; abatement
   
25-16-8   Remedies; cumulative
§ 25-16-1 ENFORCEMENT; ENTRY; INSPECTION.
   The Development Services Director, or his or her authorized representative,
may enter any building or structure or go upon any lot or tract of land to
inspect for compliance with or to prevent violation of any provision of this
chapter. Such right of entry may be exercised only during daylight hours. A
dwelling may not be entered without consent of its occupant unless a search
warrant has been obtained in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-16-2 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; NECESSITY.
   A vacant lot or tract of land may not be occupied or used, nor may the use
of any building, structure, lot, or tract of land be changed, until the owner
or occupant has applied for and there has been issued a certificate of
occupancy authorizing such use. Provided, this section shall not apply to any
building or structure the outside dimension of which is ten feet by 12 feet or
less.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-16-3 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; APPLICATION; PLAN.
   An application for a certificate of occupancy must be accompanied by a plan
in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing:
   (A)   The location of all buildings or structures and any parking to be
provided on the lot or tract of land involved;
   (B)   Accurate dimensions of the lot or tract of land and all buildings or
structures built or to be built on the lot or tract of land;
   (C)   The location of the main building on each adjacent lot; and
   (D)   Any other information required to enable the Development Services
Director to determine if the plan complies with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-16-4 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; FEES.
   Unless a certificate of occupancy is applied for at the same time
application is made for a building permit, the inspector shall charge a fee as
described in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code of ordinances for each
certificate of occupancy and $1 for a copy of any original certificate issued.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-16-5 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; ISSUED; WHEN.
   The Development Services Director shall issue a certificate of occupancy
within ten days after application for it is made if the proposed use of the
building, structure, lot, or tract of land complies with the provisions of this
chapter and any other ordinances and statutes pertaining to building
construction, use, health, or safety. If an application for a certificate of
occupancy is made in conjunction with an application for a building permit, the
Director shall issue the certificate of occupancy when the requirements of this
section have been met.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-16-6 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; CONTENTS; FILE; COPIES.
   A certificate of occupancy shall state that the proposed use of the
building, structure, lot, or tract of land for which it is issued appears to
comply with the provisions of this chapter and any other ordinance which
regulates the construction or use of a building or structure, or pertaining to
health or safety. The Development Services Director shall keep on file in his
or her office a copy of the certificate of occupancy as issued, and shall
furnish, on payment of the fee prescribed in § 25-16-4 of this article, a copy
of the certificate of occupancy to any person having an interest either as
owner or tenant in the building, structure, lot, or tract of land for which the
certificate was issued.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-16-7 PUBLIC NUISANCE; DECLARATION; ABATEMENT.
   Any building, structure, lot, or tract of land which is built, moved,
altered, or used in violation of any provision of this chapter is declared to
be a public nuisance. The City Attorney is authorized to prosecute any action
in a court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin any person, firm, association,
or corporation from building, moving, altering, using, or maintaining any
building, structure, lot, or tract of land as a nuisance.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-16-8 REMEDIES; CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided in this article are, unless the context otherwise
clearly indicates, cumulative to each other and to any other remedies provided
by law.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 17: APPEALS
Section
   
25-17-1   Appeals; to Board of Adjustments; fee
   
25-17-2   Appeals; notice of appeal; fee
   
25-17-3   Adjacent landowners; names; fees
   
25-17-4   Hearing; notice; rules of Board
§ 25-17-1 APPEALS; TO BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; FEE.
   On appeal to the Board of Adjustment by a person aggrieved by an order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Development Services
Director or by the Code Administrator II, such person, at the time of filing
the notice of appeal, shall pay to the Development Services Director a fee in
the amount provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this code of ordinances. Upon
the filing of the notice and payment of the fee, if the appeal is taken from an
order, requirement, decision, or determination of the Code Administrator II,
the Director shall in writing notify the Inspector thereof.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-17-2 APPEALS; NOTICE OF APPEAL; FEE.
   Notice of an appeal to the Board of Adjustment shall be filed as prescribed
by the rules of the Board. The fee provided in Chapter 6, Article 6 of this
code of ordinances shall be paid by the appellant (unless appellant is the city
or an officer of the city) to the Development Services Director at the time of
filing the notice of appeal.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-17-3 ADJACENT LANDOWNERS; NAMES; FEES.
   The Development Services Director shall cause to be prepared a list of the
names of the owners of all lots and tracts of land immediately adjacent on the
sides and in the rear of appellant’s property extending 300 feet therefrom, and
of the lots and tracts of land directly opposite from appellant’s property
extending 300 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4332, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 25-17-4 HEARING; NOTICE; RULES OF BOARD.
   Appeals shall be heard at a time and in a manner prescribed by rules of the
Board of Adjustment. Notice of a hearing on an appeal shall be given as
required by statute and also shall be served upon the persons whose names are
on the list of owners of lots and tracts of land referred to above, either by
personal service, by mailing, or by leaving at the last known place of
residence, as the Board shall provide.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 18: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES
Section
   
25-18-1   Violations; penalty
§ 25-18-1 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter is a Class II violation. After
the Development Services Director, or, as the case may be, the Code
Administrator II, shall have notified any person, firm, association, or
corporation in writing of a violation, each day such violation or refusal or
failure to comply continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 19: FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE
Section
(a) Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, and Purposes
   
25-19-1   Definitions
   
25-19-2   Statutory authorization
   
25-19-3   Findings of fact
   
25-19-4   Statement of purpose
(b) General Provisions
   
25-19-5   Adherence to regulations
   
25-19-6   Lands to which article applies
   
25-19-7   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
25-19-8   Compliance
   
25-19-9   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
25-19-10   Interpretation
   
25-19-11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
25-19-12   Severability
(c) Establishment of Districts
   
25-19-13   Establishment of zoning districts
(d) Development Permit
   
25-19-14   Floodplain management administration
   
25-19-15   Permits required
   
25-19-16   Application for permit and demonstration of compliance
   
25-19-17   Flood data required
   
25-19-18   Variances and appeals
   
25-19-19   Enforcement
(e) Standards for Floodplain Development
   
25-19-20   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse
   
25-19-21   Encroachments
   
25-19-22   Floodway Overlay District
   
25-19-23   Elevation and flood-proofing requirements
   
25-19-24   Design and construction standards
   
25-19-25   Nonconforming use
   
25-19-26   Amendments
(f) Flood Fringe Overlay District (Including AO and AH Districts)
   
25-19-27   Permitted uses
   
25-19-28   Standards for the Flood Fringe Overlay District
   
25-19-29   Standards for Flood Fringe Overlay District; manufactured homes
   
25-19-30   Standards for Flood Fringe Overlay District; recreational vehicles
   
25-19-31   AO District; provisions applicable
(g) Floodway Overlay District
   
25-19-32   Permitted uses
   
25-19-33   Encroachments; prohibited without certification
(h) Variance Procedures
   
25-19-34   Variance requests; Board of Adjustment to hear
   
25-19-35   Variance requests; appeal from decision of Board of Adjustment
   
25-19-36   Variance requests; factors to be considered
(i) Conditions for Variances
   
25-19-37   Variances; general conditions
   
25-19-38   Variances; historic structures
   
25-19-39   Variances; when not allowed
   
25-19-40   Variances; condition for allowance
   
25-19-41   Variances; further conditions for allowance
   
25-19-42   Variances; written notice to successful applicant
(j) Nonconforming Use
   
25-19-43   Nonconforming use; conditions for continuance
   
25-19-44   Nonconforming use; destruction
(k) Penalties for Violation
   
25-19-45   Penalties
(a) STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, AND PURPOSES
§ 25-19-1 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in Chapter 25,
Article 19 shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give this article its most reasonable application. Where a
term is defined in the following sections shall be the meaning of that term
wherever it appears in this article.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are
expected to rise during a 0.2% annual chance flood.
   0.2% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOODPLAIN. The floodplain that would be inundated by the
0.2% annual chance flood and delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this article or a request for a variance.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Also shall be known as ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH zone on the city’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation to which floodwaters are expected to
rise during the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any change to real estate, including but not limited to the
construction, reconstruction, renovation, repair, expansion or alteration of
buildings or other structures; the placement of manufactured homes; streets and
other paving; utilities; filling, grading, and excavation; mining; dredging;
drilling operations; storage of equipment or materials; or obstructions.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of June 15, 1979.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The usual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That area of the floodplain, outside of the floodway, that has
a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the special flood hazard area
boundaries and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of FLOODING). FLOODPLAIN includes flood fringe and
floodway. FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA are the same for use by this
article.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, and
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of river or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could  contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either: (1) By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior or (2) Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built or modified so as to render the structure in violation
of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this article.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted
by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured  homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation (including the alteration or relocation of a watercourse
or drainway), channel rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, stored
equipment or material, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, or other
analogous structure or matter which may impede, retard, or change the direction
of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris
carried by such water, or that is placed where the natural flow of the water
would carry such structure or matter downstream to the damage or detriment of
either life or property. Dams designed to store or divert water are not
obstructions if permission for the construction thereof is obtained from the
Department of natural Resources pursuant to the Safety of Dams and Reservoirs
Act (Neb. RS 46-1601 to 46-1670 as amended).
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   POST-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved after December 31, 1974 or on or after the city's initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated June 15, 1979, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM STRUCTURE. A building that was constructed or substantially
improved on or before December 31, 1974 or before the city's initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map dated June 15, 1979, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is (i) built on a single chassis; (ii)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
(iii) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and (iv) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus a freeboard
factor as specified in this article.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given
year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the floodplain development permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. START OF CONSTRUCTION also includes substantial
improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles,
the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not the alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or re-division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land
by any means into two or more lots, tracts, parcels, or other divisions of land
including changes in existing lot lines for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of lease, partition by the court for distribution to heirs or devisees,
transfer of ownership, or building or lot development.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either (1) any project for improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions,
or (2) any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to an applicant from the requirements of this
article that allows construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
article where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this article is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided. Watercourse means
any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that serves to give
direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year and that has a
bed and well-defined banks.
   WATERCOURSE. Any depression two feet or more below the surrounding land that
serves to give direction to a current of water at least nine months of the year
and that has a bed and well-defined banks.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-2 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed to protect the
public health, safety, general welfare, and property of the people of the
state. The Legislature, in Neb. RS 31-1001 to 31-1023 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer, and enforce floodplain
management regulations to the county, city, or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the flood prone area. Therefore, the City Council ordains as follows this
section.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-3 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the city are subject to inundation that results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood
heights and velocities as well as the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses
vulnerable to floods or hazardous to others that are inadequately elevated or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-4 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this article to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
25-19-3 by applying the provisions of this article to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
that service such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of
initial construction.
   (C)   Reduce financial burdens from flood damage borne by the city, its
governmental units, its residents, and its businesses by preventing excessive
and unsafe development in areas subject to flooding.
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the city
to purchase flood insurance from the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
(b) GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 25-19-5 ADHERENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this article are in compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations as published in Title 44 of the Code of Federal
Regulations and the Nebraska Minimum Standards for Floodplain Management
Programs as published in the Nebraska Administrative Code Title 455, Chapter 1.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-6 LANDS TO WHICH ARTICLE APPLIES.
   This article shall apply to all lands within the jurisdictions of the city
identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) shown on the Index 310206IND0
dated 06-15-1979 as Zones A, Al-30, AE, AO, or AH and within the Zoning
Districts FW and FF established in §
25-19-13. In all areas covered by this article, no development shall be allowed
except upon the issuance of a floodplain development permit to develop, granted
by the Floodplain Administrator or the designated representative under such
safeguards and restrictions as the Floodplain Administrator or the designated
representative may reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of the
general welfare, health of the inhabitants of the city and where specifically
noted in §§
 25-19-14 through
25-19-25.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-7 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the floodway and the flood fringe overlay districts shall
be determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map or on the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the zoning or other
city map, the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
In such cases where the interpretation is contested, the Board of Adjustment
will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood elevation for the point in
question shall be the governing factor in locating the district boundary on the
land. The person contesting the location of the district boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment
and to submit their own technical evidence, if so desired.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-8 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified floodplains of the city, no development shall be located,
extended, converted, or structurally altered without full compliance with the
terms of this article and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-9 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This article does not intend to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this article imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this article shall prevail. All other
articles inconsistent with this article are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-10 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this article
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur or the flood height may be increased
by manmade or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings restricted
by debris. This article does not imply that areas outside floodway and flood
fringe district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts will be
free from flooding or flood damage. This article shall not create liability on
the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages
that may result from reliance on this article or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-12 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this article is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this article shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
(c) ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 25-19-13 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Along watercourses where a floodway has been established, the mapped
floodplain areas are hereby divided into the two following districts: a
floodway overlay district (FW) and a flood fringe overlay district (FF) as
identified in the Flood Insurance Study dated December 1978 and on accompanying
FIRM panels as established in §
25-19-6.
   (B)   The flood fringe overlay district shall correspond to flood zones A,
AE, A1-30, AH, AO, AR, A99, and floodway areas in Zone AE that are identified
on FIRM panels. The floodway overlay district shall correspond to the floodway
areas in Zone AE that are identified on the FIRM panels. Within these
districts, all uses not meeting the standards of this article and those
standards of the underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
(d) DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
§ 25-19-14 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Manager or
designated representative of the city is hereby designated as the city’s local
Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and
directed to administer, implement, and enforce all provisions of this article.
If the local Floodplain Administrator position is unfilled, the Director of
Development Services shall assume or assign the duties and responsibilities
herein.
   (B)   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties of the Floodplain
Administrator shall include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Review, approve, or deny all applications for floodplain
development permits.
      (2)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites are
reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this article
have been satisfied.
      (3)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local
government agencies from which prior approval is required.
      (4)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the Nebraska Department of Natural
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (7)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new
or substantially improved structures in the floodplain overlay zone.
      (8)   Verify, record, and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which all new or substantially improved
structures have been floodproofed.
      (9)   Verify, record, and maintain record of all improved or damaged
structures to ensure compliance with standards in applicable sections. Track
value of improvements and market value with permits. Also, ensure consistent
market value estimations to evaluate against damaged or improved values.
      (10)   Ensure a comprehensive development plan as amended is consistent
with this article.
      (11)   In the event the Floodplain Administrator discovers work done that
does not comply with applicable laws or articles, the Floodplain Administrator
may revoke the permit and work to correct any possible violation in accordance
with this article.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-15 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required before any development,
construction, or substantial improvement is undertaken. No person, firm,
corporation, government agency, or other entity shall initiate any floodplain
development without first obtaining a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-16 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND DEMONSTRATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such
application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the proposed development and estimated cost
to be covered by the floodplain development permit.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract, and house and streets address, or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development.
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction.
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee and authorized agent who may be required
to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
   (B)   If any proposed development is located entirely or partially within a
floodplain, applicants shall provide all information in sufficient detail and
clarity to enable the Floodplain Administrator to determine that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, water, electrical,
and other systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage;
      (3)   Structures will be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement;
      (4)   Construction materials are flood resistant;
      (5)   Appropriate practices to minimize flood damage have been utilized;
and
      (6)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing, and
any other service facilities have been designed and located to prevent entry of
floodwaters.
   (C)   For all new and substantially improved structures, an elevation
certificate based upon the finished construction certifying the elevation of
the lowest floor, including basement, and other relevant building components
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed surveyor, engineer, or architect.
   (D)   When floodproofing is utilized for an applicable structure, a
floodproofing certificate shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and
be completed by a licensed professional engineer or architect.
   (E)   For all development proposed in the floodway, no-rise certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator and be completed by a
licensed professional engineer.
   (F)   Any other such information as reasonably may be required by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be provided.
   (G)   Letters of Map Revision. Federal regulations in Title 44 of the Code
of Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Part 65.5 and 65.6 allow for changes to the
special flood hazard area through a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) or a Letter
of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F), provided the community determines that
the land and any existing or proposed structures that would be removed from the
floodplain are “reasonably safe from flooding.” The city acknowledgment form
asserting this is required for LOMR and LOMR-F applications and must be signed
by the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator shall not sign a
community acknowledgment form unless all criteria set forth in the following
divisions (G)(1) through (3) are met:
      (1)   Applicant shall obtain floodplain development permit before
applying for a LOMR or LOMR-F.
      (2)   Applicant shall demonstrate that the property and any existing or
proposed structures will be “reasonably safe from flooding,” according to the
minimum design standards in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
      (3)   All requirements listed in the Simplified Approach in FEMA
Technical Bulletin 10-01 shall be met and documentation from a registered
professional engineer shall be provided. If all of these requirements are not
met, applicant must provide documentation in line with the Engineered Approach
outlined in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-17 FLOOD DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   All Zone A areas on the FIRM are subject to inundation of the base
flood; however, the base flood elevations are not provided. Zone A areas shall
be subject to all development provisions of this article. If Flood Insurance
Study data is not available, the city shall utilize any base flood elevation or
floodway data currently available from federal, state, or other sources,
including from a study commissioned by the applicant pursuant to best technical
practices.
   (B)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the floodplain unless the applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial improvement, when
combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated developments or
substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any location as shown in the Flood Insurance
Study or on base flood elevation determinations.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-18 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Variance and appeals procedures. The Board of Adjustment as
established by the city shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the requirements of this article.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this article.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb. RS
19-912.
   (D)   In evaluating such appeals and requests, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this article, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner, future
owners, and neighboring properties;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the city;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to have a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations that are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
the floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing government services during and after flood
conditions including emergency management services and maintenance and repair
of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water
systems, streets, and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause and also upon a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued based upon a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or articles.
      (4)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing the items in divisions (E)(5) through (9)
below have been fully considered and requirements of Ned. RS 19-912-R.R.S. 1943
are met. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (5)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure on the National Register of Historic Places and the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      (6)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in water surface elevations along the floodway profile during the base
flood discharge would result.
      (7)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (8)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of
a city representative that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure
below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance and also that such construction below the base flood elevation
increases risks to life and property. Such notification shall be maintained
with the record of all variance actions as required by this article.
      (9)   All requests for variances and associated actions and documents,
including justification for their issuance, shall be maintained by the city.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit or the
failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
provisions of this article shall constitute a violation. A structure or other
development without a floodplain development permit, elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed professional engineer of compliance with these
regulations, or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation
until such time as documentation is provided.
   (B)   Notices. When the Floodplain Administrator or other authorized city
representative determines, based on reasonable grounds, that there has been a
violation of the provisions of this article, the Floodplain Administrator shall
give notice of such alleged violation as hereinafter provided. Such notice
shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include an explanation of the alleged violation;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any remedial act
required;
      (4)   Be served upon the property owner or their agent as the case may
require; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial actions that, if taken, will bring
the development into compliance with the provisions of this article.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of this article or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a Class II Violation as stated in §
 6-7-1 of this code. Any person, firm, corporate, or other entity that violates
this article or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined not more than $250, and in addition, shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   The imposition of such fines or penalties for any violation or non-
compliance with this article shall not excuse the violation or non-compliance
or allow it to continue. All such violations or non-compliant actions shall be
remedied within an established and reasonable time.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
(e) STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
§ 25-19-20 ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF A WATERCOURSE.
   (A)   A watercourse or drainway shall not be altered or relocated in any way
that in the event of a base flood or more frequent flood will alter the flood
carrying characteristics of the watercourse or drainway to the detriment of
upstream, downstream, or adjacent locations.
   (B)   No alteration or relocation shall be made until all adjacent
communities that may be affected by such action and the Nebraska Department of
Natural Resources have been notified and all applicable permits obtained.
Evidence of such notification shall be submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-21 ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   When proposing to permit any of the following encroachments, the
standards in §
25-19-22(B) shall apply:
      (1)   Any development that will cause a rise in the base flood elevations
within the floodway; or
      (2)   Any development in Zones A, A1-30, and Zone AE without a designated
floodway that will cause a rise of more than one foot in the base flood
elevation; or
      (3)   Alteration or relocation of a stream; then
   (B)   The applicant shall:
      (1)   Apply to FEMA for conditional approval of such action via the
Conditional Letter of Map Revision process (as per Title 44 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, Chapter 1, Part 65.12) prior to the permit for the
encroachments; and
      (2)   Supply the fully approved package to the Floodplain Administrator
including any required notifications to potentially affected property owners.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-22 FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Within any floodway, any new construction or substantial improvements
shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Standards for the Floodway Overlay District.
      (1)   New structures for human habitation are prohibited.
      (2)   All encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development must be prohibited unless certification by
a registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
the development shall not result in any increase in water surface elevations
along the floodway profile during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
These developments are also subject to all the standards of §§
25-19-20 through
25-19-24.
      (3)   In Zone A areas, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any flood
elevation and floodway data available through federal, state, or other sources,
including studies done under §
25-19-24(H) in meeting the standards of this section.
   (C)   Only uses having a low flood-damage potential and not obstructing
flood flows shall be allowed within the Floodway Overlay District to the extent
that they are not prohibited by any other article. The following are
recommended uses for the Floodway Overlay District:
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, nurseries, and
forestry.
      (2)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking, and play areas.
      (3)   Nonresidential uses such as loading areas, parking, and airport
landing strips.
      (4)   Public and private recreational uses such as golf courses, archery
ranges, picnic grounds, parks, and wildlife and nature preserves.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-23 ELEVATION AND FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential structures.
      (1)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30, and AH, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above one foot above the base flood elevation. Mechanical equipment including
those associated with utilities, such as but not limited to electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other
service facilities shall also be elevated to or above one foot above base flood
elevation.
      (2)   In Zone AO, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number specified in feet on
the FIRM or, if no depth number is specified on the FIRM, at least as high as
three feet. Mechanical equipment including those associated with utilities,
such as but not limited to electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities, shall also be elevated to
or above the one foot above base flood elevation.
      (3)   In the floodway, new structures for human habitation are
prohibited.
   (B)   Nonresidential structures.
      (1)   In Zones A, AE, A1-30, and AH, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical
equipment including those associated with utilities, such as but not limited to
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air condition equipment and
other service facilities shall be elevated to or above one foot above the base
flood elevation.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this section are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate shall
be provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in §
 25-12-14.
      (3)   (a)   Zone AO areas have special flood hazards associated with base
flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not
exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. In
Zone AO all new construction and substantial improvements shall have the lowest
floor, and mechanical equipment including those associated with utilities, such
as but not limited to electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as one foot above the depth number
specified in feet on the FIRM or, if no depth number is specified on the FIRM,
at least as high as three feet; or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood
elevation:
         (b)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this section are satisfied. A floodproofing certificate shall
be provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in §
25-12-14.
   (C)   Space below lowest floor.
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be used solely for the parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage of readily removable items.
      (2)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements)
and below the base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum or two openings having a net total area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Appurtenant structures. Structures accessory to a principal building
may have the lowest floor below one foot above base flood elevation provided
that the structure complies with the following requirements:
      (1)   The structure shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   The use of the structure must be limited to parking of vehicles or
storage of items readily removable in the event of a flood warning.
      (3)   The floor area shall not exceed 864 square feet in R1, R1A, R4, and
R6 zones.
      (4)   The structure shall have a low damage potential.
      (5)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or other lateral movement.
      (6)   The structure shall be designed to automatically provide for the
entry and exit of floodwaters for the purpose of equalizing hydrostatic forces.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed space;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall not be higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they allow the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (7)   No utilities shall be installed except electrical fixtures in the
structure, which must be elevated or floodproofed to one foot above base flood
elevation.
      (8)   The structure shall be constructed and placed on the building site
so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (9)   If the structure is converted to another use, it must be brought
into full compliance with the minimum standards governing such use.
   (E)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within the Floodplain Overlay District be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home utilities,
mechanicals, and equipment, is one foot above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance
with the provisions of this article if the site meets the following criteria:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home as incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood.
      (2)   New manufactured home parks of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is
less, shall follow the standards of §
25-19-24(H).
      (3)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the manufactured home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured
homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (F)   Existing structures.
      (1)   The provisions of this article do not require any changes or
improvements to be made to lawfully existing structures. However, when an
improvement is made to a structure in the floodplain, a floodplain development
pennit is required and the following provisions shall apply.
      (2)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure where the costs of which would equal or exceed
50% of the pre-improvement market value shall constitute a substantial
improvement and shall fully comply with the provisions of this article.
      (3)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure in the floodway shall comply with the provisions
of §
25-19-22.
      (4)   Any addition, alteration, reconstruction, or improvement of any
kind to an existing structure that will change the compliance requirements of
the building shall require applicable documentation including an elevation
certificate, floodproofing certificate, or no rise certification.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-24 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Anchoring. All buildings or structures shall be firmly anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   Building materials and utilities.
      (1)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with materials and
utility equipment resistant to flood damage. All buildings or structures shall
also be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood and flood-
related damages.
      (2)   All buildings or structures shall be constructed with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Drainage. Within Zones AO and AH, adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and
away from proposed structures.
   (D)   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewer systems
shall be located, designed, and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damages to such systems and the infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
      (2)   All new or replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate discharge from the system into floodwaters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and designed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (E)   Other utilities. All other utilities such as gas, electrical, and
other utilities shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage to such utilities and facilities.
   (F)   Storage of materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   The storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (G)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles to be placed on sites
within the floodplain shall:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, which shall mean it is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site by only quick-
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and no permanently attached
additions; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this article.
   (H)   Subdivisions. Subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, shall require
assurance that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is less, where
base flood elevation data are not available, shall be supported by hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses that determine base flood elevations and floodway
information. The analyses shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer
in a format required by FEMA for conditional letters of map revision and a
letters of map revision.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-25 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or use of a structure or premises that was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this article, but that is not in conformity with
the provisions of this article may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this article. The utility
providers shall notify the Floodplain Administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of 12 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this article. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code or regulations or the cost of
any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places, provided that the alteration shall not preclude its continued
designation.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 25-19-26 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries of
Article 19 may be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed as defined by §§
25-15-1 through
25-15-10 and
25-15-27.
(Ord. 4293, passed 11-7-2022)
(f) FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT  (INCLUDING AO AND AH DISTRICTS)
§ 25-19-27 PERMITTED USES.
   Any use permitted in §
25-19-32 of this article shall be permitted in the Flood Fringe Overlay
District. No use shall be permitted in the district unless the standards of §§
25-19-21 through
25-19-26 of this article are met.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-28 STANDARDS FOR THE FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   All new construction or substantial improvements in the Flood Fringe Overlay
District shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   The lowest floor, including basement, of residential structures shall
be elevated to or above one-foot above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   The lowest floor, including basement, of non-residential structures
shall be elevated to or above one-foot above the base flood elevation or,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall be flood proofed
so that below that level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection (f) of this article are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Development Services Director as set
forth in §
25-19-18(B)(7) of this article.
   (C)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria: A minimum of two openings having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be not
higher than one-foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens,
louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (D)   Within AH Districts, adequate drainage paths around structures on
slopes shall be required in order to guide floodwaters around and away from
proposed structures.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-29 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT; MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes in a special flood hazard area shall be
anchored to resist floatation, collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured
homes must be anchored in accordance with local building codes or FEMA
guidelines. In the event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are
used, the following specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
      (2)   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (B)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved within
special flood hazard areas on the city’s FIRM shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above
one-foot above the base flood elevation; and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of
division (A) above if located on sites:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood.
   (C)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special flood
hazard areas on the FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of division (B)
above shall be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (A)
above.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000; Ord. 4146, passed - -)
§ 25-19-30 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT; RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within the special flood hazard areas
on the city’s Director map shall either be on the site for fewer than 180
consecutive days, be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or meet the
permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
“manufactured homes” of this article. A recreational vehicle is ready for
highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site
only by quick-disconnect type utilities and securely devices, and has no
permanently-attached additions.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-31 AO DISTRICTS; PROVISIONS APPLICABLE.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in this article
are areas designated as AO Districts. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply within AO Districts.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as one-foot above the depth number
specified in feet on the FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is
specified).
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent grade at
least as high as one-foot above the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM
(at least two feet if no depth number is specified); or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Such certification
shall be provided to the Development Services Director as set forth in §
25-19-18(B)(7) of this article.
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be required
in order to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(g) FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 25-19-32 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Only uses having a low flood damage potential and not obstructing
flood flows shall be permitted within the Floodway Overlay District to the
extent that they are not prohibited by any other provision of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The following are recommended uses for the Floodway District:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, such as general farming, pasture, nurseries, and
forestry;
      (2)   Residential uses, such as lawns, gardens, parking, and play areas;
      (3)   Non-residential areas such as loading areas, parking, and airport
landing strips; and
      (4)   Public and private recreational uses, such as golf courses, archery
ranges, picnic grounds, parks, wildlife, and nature preserves.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-33 ENCROACHMENTS; PROHIBITED WITHOUT CERTIFICATION.
   New structures for human habitation are prohibited in the Floodway Overlay
District. All encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development in any floodway district are prohibited in
the Floodway Overlay District unless certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that the development shall not
result in any increase in water surface elevations along the floodway profile
during occurrence of the base flood discharge. These uses are subject to the
standards of §§
25-19-21 through
25-19-31 of this article. In District A unnumbered, any flood elevation and
floodway data available through federal, state, or other sources or §
25-19-26 of this article shall be obtained, reviewed, and reasonably utilized
in meeting the standards of this section.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(h) VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 25-19-34 VARIANCE REQUESTS; BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-35 VARIANCE REQUESTS; APPEAL FROM DECISION OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided by the
state statutes.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-36 VARIANCE REQUESTS; FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall consider
all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this article, and:
   (A)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the city;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (J)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(i) CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES
§ 25-19-37 VARIANCES; GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the factors in §
25-19-36 of this article have been fully considered, and providing further that
the requirements of Neb. RS 19-910 are met. As the lot size increases beyond
the one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-38 VARIANCES; HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-39 VARIANCES; WHEN NOT ALLOWED.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels along the floodway profile during the base flood discharge
would result.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-40 VARIANCES; CONDITION FOR ALLOWANCE.
   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the
minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-41 VARIANCES; FURTHER CONDITIONS FOR ALLOWANCE.
   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient cause,
a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional
hardship to the applicant, and a determination that the granting of a variance
will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public
safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, or conflict with other provisions of this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-42 VARIANCES; WRITTEN NOTICE TO SUCCESSFUL APPLICANT.
   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given a written notice
that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor evaluation.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(j) NONCONFORMING USE
§ 25-19-43 NONCONFORMING USE; CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUANCE.
   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of the article but which is not in conformity with the
provisions of this article may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future use
of the building premises shall conform to this article. The Water
Superintendent and the Wastewater Superintendent shall notify the Planning and
Building Director in writing of instances of nonconforming uses where water and
sewer services have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
   (B)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-19-44 NONCONFORMING USE; DESTRUCTION.
   If any nonconforming use or structure is destroyed by any means, including
flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of the market
value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it is
reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this article. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places, provided that the
alteration shall not preclude its continued designation.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
(k) PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION
§ 25-19-45 PENALTIES.
   Any building or structure which is in violation of any provision of this
article is declared to be an unsafe structure. All provisions of
Chapter 4, Article 6 of this code of ordinances to unsafe structures, including
penalty provisions, shall be applicable to violations of this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 20: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
25-20-1   Definitions; applicability
   
25-20-2   Wind energy conversion system; WECS
   
25-20-3   WECS; site
   
25-20-4   WECS; swept area
   
25-20-5   WECS; total height
   
25-20-6   Findings; City Council
   
25-20-7   Article; purpose
   
25-20-8   Heights
   
25-20-9   Setback
   
25-20-10   Special permit
   
25-20-11   Special permit; application
   
25-20-12   Special permit; Article 13 requirements
   
25-20-13   Special permits; findings; Planning Commission; additional
   
25-20-14   Abandonment
§ 25-20-1 DEFINITIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   Whenever used in the article, the terms defined in the following sections
shall bear the meaning given them in those sections.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-2 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM; WECS.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. A machine that converts kinetic energy in
wind into a different, usable form of energy, including a machine commonly
known as a wind turbine or windmill. Unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the term refers to all components of such a system, including, but
not limited to, the tower and transmission equipment. For convenience, the term
usually is abbreviated “WECS.”
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-3 WECS; SITE.
   SITE. The lot or tract of land upon which a WECS is placed. It includes such
a lot or tract of land whether privately- or publicly-owned, and regardless of
whether the WECS is owned by, in possession or control of, or operated by the
same person who owns or is in possession of the lot or tract of land.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-4 WECS; SWEPT AREA.
   SWEPT AREA. The largest area of the WECS which extracts energy from the wind
stream.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-5 WECS; TOTAL HEIGHT.
   TOTAL HEIGHT. The aggregate height of the tower and the furthest vertical
extension of any other component of the WECS.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-6 FINDINGS; CITY COUNCIL.
   It is found and declared that:
   (A)   Wind energy is an abundant, renewable, and nonpolluting energy
resource, and its conversion to electricity will reduce dependence on
nonrenewable energy sources and decrease air and water pollution which may
result from use of conventional energy;
   (B)   Wind turbines which convert wind energy to electricity are currently
available on a commercial basis from many manufacturers; and
   (C)   The generation of electricity by properly sited wind turbines can be
cost effective, and in many instances, existing power distribution systems can
be used to transmit electricity from wind generating stations to utilities or
other users.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-7 ARTICLE; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to regulate the occupancy and use of lands by
wind energy conversion systems for protection of the public health, safety, and
general welfare, including, but not limited to, that of owners and occupants of
adjacent lands in a manner that will facilitate the effective and efficient use
of such systems.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-8 HEIGHTS.
   The total height of a WECS shall not exceed 80 feet except in the A
District, or the maximum height permitted by regulations of the state or the
federal government, whichever is lesser. The minimum distance of any blade
above the ground shall be 15 feet; provided, if there shall exist within a 250-
foot radius of the center point of the tower any building, structure (not
including electrical transmission or distribution lines, antennas, slender, or
open lattice towers or open fences), or tree in excess of 35 feet in height,
the minimum distance of any blade above the ground shall be the greater of:
   (A)   The sum of 30 feet and the height, in feet, of the tallest of such
building(s), structure(s), or tree(s); or
   (B)   Such distance above the ground as the manufacturer shall recommend to
assure sufficient air flow for adequate operation of the WECS.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007)
§ 25-20-9 SETBACK.
   The tower support base of the WECS shall be located a distance from the
boundary lines of the lot or tract of land, and from all above ground utility
lines, that is not less than one and one-fourth times the total height of the
WECS.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-10 SPECIAL PERMIT.
   The Planning Commission may issue a special permit authorizing the erection,
maintenance, and operation of WECS in any zone, and modifying as to such
system, as provided in this article, zoning regulations pertaining to height,
setback, and other provisions of this chapter which otherwise would apply to
the system, if the Commission determines that the requirements of this article,
and of Article 16 of this chapter, have been met.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-11 SPECIAL PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a special permit to erect, maintain, and operate a
WECS shall comply with the requirements for an application for a special permit
as described elsewhere in the municipal code and, in addition, shall include
the following information:
      (1)   Address and telephone number of the owner of the lot or tract of
land and, if the WECS is to be erected, maintained, or operated by some other
person, the name, address, and telephone number of such other person; and
      (2)   A plot plan and development plan drawn in sufficient scale and
detail to clearly describe:
         (a)   The property lines and physical dimensions of the proposed site,
including all public streets and alleys abutting the site;
         (b)   The location and total height of the WECS;
         (c)   The location, dimensions, and types of all major existing
structures and uses of the site;
         (d)   The location of all above ground utility lines and other WECSs
on the site or within a radius from the center of the tower which is equal to
one and one-half times the total height of the proposed WECS;
         (e)   The location and size of all buildings, structures, and trees
exceeding 35 feet in height within a 500-foot radius of the proposed WECS (for
purposes of this requirement, electrical transmission and distribution lines,
antennas, slender or open lattice towers, and open fences are not considered
structures);
         (f)   Where applicable, the location of all transmission facilities
proposed for installation;
         (g)   Where applicable, the location of all road and other service
structures proposed as part of the installation; and
         (h)   The zoning districts within which are situated the lot or tract
of land and adjacent lots and tracts of land.
   (B)   There also shall be submitted with the application a copy of a
proposed policy of liability insurance in an amount satisfactory to the
Development Services Director.
   (C)   If the WECS is to be erected, maintained, or operated by a person
other than the owner of the lot or tract of land, the application shall be
signed, also, by such other person.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-12 SPECIAL PERMIT; ARTICLE 13 REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the other requirements and provisions of Article 13 of this chapter
concerning proceedings on applications for a special permit, the terms of such
a permit, the issuance of building permits and certificates of occupancy, and
the transfer of special permits shall apply to a special permit issued under
this article.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-13 SPECIAL PERMIT; FINDINGS; PLANNING COMMISSION; ADDITIONAL.
   The Planning Commission may approve a special permit for a WECS if it finds,
in addition to the findings required for the issuance of a special permit, that
the proposed use will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
general welfare.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-20-14 ABANDONMENT.
   A WECS shall be deemed abandoned if not in continuous use, except during
maintenance and repair or during the temporary absence of the operator. If the
Development Services Director shall determine that a WECS has been abandoned
within the meaning of this section, he or she shall cause to be delivered or
mailed to the owner of the lot or tract of land and, if the WECS was in the
possession of or operated by some other person, to such other person, a written
notice of such determination and that the WECS, including the tower, shall be
removed within 30 days after delivery or mailing of the notice. If the notice
is mailed, it shall be addressed to the person being notified at the latter’s
last known residence address.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 21: SATELLITE EARTH STATIONS
Section
   
25-21-1   Finding; City Council
   
25-21-2   Article; purpose
   
25-21-3   Satellite earth station; location; setback; C-1, C-2, C-3, PBC, M-1,
and M-2 Districts
   
25-21-4   Satellite earth station; O-P, R-1, R-1a, R-4, R-6, or A Districts
   
25-21-5   Satellite earth station; number; exception and permit
   
25-21-6   Satellite earth station: height; exceptions
   
25-21-7   Satellite earth station; color, appearance; character
   
25-21-8   Residences served; number
   
25-21-9   Advertising
§ 25-21-1 FINDING; CITY COUNCIL.
   It is found and declared that the use of satellite earth stations, as an
alternative means of receiving television service, is becoming common within
the city and the area of the city’s building and zoning jurisdiction and,
particularly, outside the city’s corporate boundaries, in areas out of the
reach of the cable television, or where conventional television reception is
poor.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-21-2 ARTICLE; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to regulate the occupancy and use of lands by
satellite earth stations for protection of the public health, safety, and
general welfare, including but not limited to that of owners and occupants of
adjacent lands, in a manner that will facilitate the effective and efficient
use of such stations.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-21-3 SATELLITE EARTH STATION; LOCATION; SETBACK; C-1, C-2, C-3, PBC, M-1,
AND M-2 DISTRICTS.
   In any C-1, C-2, C-3, PBC, M-1, or M-2 District, a satellite earth station
may be located anywhere on a lot or tract of building; provided, the location
shall comply with all setback requirements of the zone in which the station
will be located and, if the location will be in a commercial or industrial zone
which abuts a residential zone, the station shall be set back not less than ten
feet from any boundary with the residential zone and shall be effectively
screened from view from any property in the residential zone by a solid fence,
wall, or hedge on the property on which the station will be located.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007)
§ 25-21-4 SATELLITE EARTH STATION; O-P, R-1, R-1A, R-4, R-6, OR A DISTRICTS.
   In any O-P, R-1, R-1a, R-4, R-6, or A District, a satellite earth station
may be located only in the rear yard of a lot or tract, shall be set back from
every lot or tract line not less than five feet, and shall be located not less
than five feet distant from any part of a residential building (including an
attached garage). Provided, if a usable satellite signal cannot be obtained (as
determined by the Development Services Director or other city employee
designated by the City Manager) from the rear yard, the station may be placed
upon the roof of the dwelling if the height of the station in such location
does not exceed any height restriction contained in this article.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007)
§ 25-21-5 SATELLITE EARTH STATION; NUMBER; EXCEPTION AND PERMIT.
   Not more than one satellite earth station may be installed on a lot or tract
of land in an R District, or on two or more lots or tracts of land in such a
zone which are occupied or used in common; provided, the Planning Commission
may issue a special permit for installation of one or more additional such
stations in a planned unit development if the Commission shall determine that
technological considerations (including, but not necessarily limited to, the
adequacy of signals received) reasonably require use of an additional station
or stations.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-21-6 SATELLITE EARTH STATION; HEIGHT; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No satellite earth station, including the platform or structure upon
which it is mounted, shall exceed in height the following restrictions, or
restrictions upon the height of structures generally in the zone, whichever is
the more restrictive:
      (1)   In any C-1, C-2, C-3, PBC, M-1, or M-2 District: 20 feet; or
      (2)   In any O-P, R-1, R-1a, R-4, R-6, or A District: 15 feet.
   (B)   Provided the foregoing restrictions in this section shall not apply to
a commercial or public satellite earth station that is a part of, or mounted
on, a communication tower.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007)
§ 25-21-7 SATELLITE EARTH STATION; COLOR; APPEARANCE; CHARACTER.
   All satellite earth stations shall be neutral in color and to the extent
reasonably possible, as determined by the Code Administrator II, shall be
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood in appearance and character.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-21-8 RESIDENCES SERVED; NUMBER.
   In any R District, except in the case of a planned unit development or an
apartment complex under one ownership, a satellite earth station may serve only
one residence.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
§ 25-21-9 ADVERTISING.
   No form of advertising shall be placed on any part of a satellite earth
station, except a small manufacturer’s identification plate and, except in the
case of a station operated by a television or radio station, the call letters
or numbers of the latter station.
(Ord. 3639, passed - -2000)
ARTICLE 22: LANDSCAPING
Section
   
25-22-1   Intent
   
25-22-2   Definitions
   
25-22-3   Applicability
   
25-22-4   Materials, installation, and maintenance standards
   
25-22-5   Tree plantings
   
25-22-6   Street yard landscape provisions
   
25-22-7   Bufferyard and screening provisions
   
25-22-8   Parking lot landscaping
   
25-22-9   Nature-based stormwater best management practices (BMPs)
   
25-22-10   Performance guarantee
   
25-22-11   General provisions
§ 25-22-1 INTENT.
   The provisions of this article provide guidance on the development of sites
within the city by addressing landscaping and screening requirements. The
provisions in this article are designed to improve the appearance of the
community, buffer potentially incompatible land uses from one another, and
conserve the value or properties within the city and its extra-territorial
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-2 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be used for terms contained within this
article:
   BUFFERYARD. A landscaped area intended to separate and partially obstruct
the view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one another.
   IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE AREA. The total horizontal area of all buildings, roofed
or covered spaces, paved surface areas, walkways and driveways, and any other
site improvements that decrease the ability of the surface of the site to
absorb water, expressed as a percent of site area. The surface water area of
pools is excluded from this definition.
   LANDSCAPED AREA. The area within the boundaries of a given lot, site, or
common development consisting primarily of plant material, including but not
limited to grass, trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover, and other organic plant
materials; or grass paver masonry units installed such that the appearance of
the area is primarily landscaped.
      (1)   INTERIOR LANDSCAPED AREA. Any required landscaped area within a
site including interior islands, endcap islands, and corner islands. See Figure
25-22-8.
      (2)   PERIMETER PARKING LOT LANDSCAPED AREA. Any required landscaped area
around the perimeter of a parking facility.
   PARKING FACILITY. An area on a lot or site, including one or more parking
spaces, along with provision for access, circulation, maneuvering, and
landscaping.
   SCREENING. The method by which a view of one site from another adjacent site
is shielded, concealed, or hidden.
   STREET YARD LANDSCAPE. The area of a lot, site, or common development which
extends inward of a minimum depth of ten feet from any street property line.
(Ord. 3951, passed - -2007; Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-3 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to all new development on each
lot or site upon application for a building permit, except for the following:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings;
   (B)   Reconstruction or replacement of a lawfully existing use or structure
following a casualty loss;
   (C)   Remodeling, rehabilitation, or improvements to existing uses or
structures which do not substantially change the location of structures,
parking, or other site improvements;
   (D)   Additions or enlargements of existing uses or structures which
increase floor area or impervious coverage area by less than 20% of the
building established on the site on the effective date of this article. Where
such cumulative additions or enlargements are 20% or greater, these provisions
shall apply only to that portion where the new development occurs.
(Ord. 4072, passed - -2012; Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-4 MATERIALS, INSTALLATION, AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   List of recommended and prohibited plant material. Plantings shall be
consistent with the List of Recommended and Prohibited Plant Materials provided
by the Scottsbluff Park, Cemetery, & Tree Board through the Department of
Development Services. All plant materials in required landscape areas including
but not limited to street yard landscaping, bufferyards, screening, and parking
lot landscaping, shall conform in size, species, and spacing with this section
of the article.
   (B)   Plant selection.
      (1)   The overall landscape plan shall not contain more than 33% of any
one plant species.
      (2)   All landscape plans must use at least 50% native and/or drought
tolerant plant materials to be installed, as appropriate for their location.
   (C)   Minimum plant sizes.
      (1)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of four feet in height, measured
from the top of the root ball to the top of the tree.
      (2)   Streetscape, or large, deciduous trees shall be a one and one-half
inches caliper or larger, measured twelve inches above the root ball.
      (3)   Small, or ornamental, deciduous trees shall be a one and one-half
inches caliper or larger, measured 12 inches above the root ball.
   (D)   Use of inorganic landscaping materials.
      (1)   No artificial trees, shrubs, plants, or turf shall be used to
fulfill the minimum requirements for landscaping.
      (2)   Inorganic materials, such as stone or decorative pavers, may be
used provided that such material does not comprise more than 35% of the minimum
required landscaped area.
      (3)   Other concrete and/or asphalt pavement surfaces may not be used
within the minimum required landscaped area, except for walkways and driveways.
      (4)   Loose rock shall not be permitted within any required landscaped
area which is within ten feet of a traveled street surface or sidewalk as
defined under Chapter 22 of the Municipal Code.
   (E)   Upon installation of required landscape materials, each owner shall
take appropriate actions to ensure their continued health and maintenance.
Required landscaping that does not remain healthy shall be replaced
consistently with this section and the approved landscaping plan for the
project.
(Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-5 TREE PLANTINGS.
   (A)   In any required landscaped area, including but not limited to street
yard landscaping, bufferyards, screening, and parking lot landscaping
bufferyard requirements, and parking lot landscaping requirements. One tree of
an approved species shall be planted and maintained for each 500 square feet of
required landscape area.
   (B)   Existing trees approved for preservations shall be counted toward
satisfaction of this requirement.
   (C)   All required trees shall meet the minimum size requirements as set
forth by §
25-22-4.
(Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-6 STREET YARD LANDSCAPE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Depth of street yard landscape area. Landscaping shall be required
adjacent to each street property line and shall extend from the right-of-way to
a minimum depth inward of ten feet on private property for all land uses and
zoning classifications. Provided however, that this requirement shall not be
applicable land that is used for single-family or two-family residential uses.
      (1)   Street yard landscaping depth may be reduced to not less than five
feet in order to meet off-street parking requirements.
   (B)   Location of street trees. All trees and shrubs planted in the street
yard landscape area shall meet the spacing and location requirements of this
chapter and those of Chapter 20 Article 7 of the Municipal Code.
   (C)   Obstructions. Street yard landscape areas required by this chapter
shall not be obstructed by any type or size of fence.
(Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-7 BUFFERYARD AND SCREENING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Bufferyard applications. These provisions apply when use is
established in a more intensive zoning district which is adjacent to a less
intensive zoning district.
      (1)   The owner, developer, or operator of the lot or site in the more
intensive zoning district shall install and maintain a landscaped bufferyard on
his or her lot or site along the common lot line. Bufferyards are not required
on single-family or two-family residential use types in the more intensive
zoning district.
      (2)   Criteria for review and approval of appropriate bufferyard design
includes, but is not limited to the following: meets base bufferyard
requirements, provides separation of uses, obstructs view between uses, allows
access to utilities and detention, and maintains surface water drainage.
Appropriate site design may allow for bufferyards to be incorporated into
stormwater detention, water quality areas, and utility easements.
      (3)   The bufferyard dimensions set forth in Table 25-22-7 apply to
zoning districts which share a common lot line; except
      (4)   When a public alley with a width not less than 20 feet or street
separates a more intensive zoning district from a less intensive zoning
district, no bufferyard is required.
      (5)   If a six feet high solid wood or PVC fence or masonry wall is
incorporated into the design, the required bufferyard may be reduced to a width
not less than ten feet, conditional on approval by the Planning Commission. The
finished side of the fencing shall face the less intensive zoning district
property or site. A row of shrubs of an approved species with a minimum height
of three feet, planted a maximum of four feet from center shall accompany the
fence or wall.
      (6)   Each bufferyard shall be entirely landscaped and free of paved
areas, access ways, storage, or other disturbances.
   (B)   Bufferyard requirements.
   TABLE 25-22-7
District A (More
Intensive District)  District B (Less Intensive Adjacent District)
(Note 2)
                     A, AR, R-1B, R-1, R- R-4, R-6 (Note 1) O-P, C-1, C-2, PBC,
                     1A (Note 1)                            C-3
District A (More
Intensive District)  District B (Less Intensive Adjacent District)
(Note 2)
                     A, AR, R-1B, R-1, R- R-4, R-6 (Note 1) O-P, C-1, C-2, PBC,
                     1A (Note 1)                            C-3
R-4                  10 feet              --                --
R-6                  10 feet              --                --
O-P                  10 feet              --                --
C-1                  5 feet               --                --
C-2                  10 feet              10 feet           --
PBC                  10 feet              10 feet           --
C-3                  15 feet              15 feet           --
M-1                  15 feet              15 feet           10 feet
M-2                  20 feet              20 feet           20 feet
Note 1: Applies only to residential uses previously established in the zoning
district.
Note 2: Buffer requirements do not apply to single-family or two-family
residential established in District A.
 
   (C)   Screening application. Screening is required when one or more of the
following conditions is directly visible from or faces toward the boundary of a
less intensive zoning district.
      (1)   Rear elevations of buildings;
         (a)   Screening of rear of elevations of buildings shall not be
required if less intensive zoning district is separated from more intensive
zoning district by a public alley with a minimum width of 20 feet.
      (2)   Outdoor storage areas, cargo containers, or storage tanks, unless
otherwise screened;
      (3)   Loading docks, refuse collection points, and other service areas;
      (4)   Major machinery or areas housing a manufacturing process;
      (5)   Major on-site traffic circulation areas or car, truck, and/or
trailer parking; or
      (6)   Sources of glare, noise, or other environmental effect.
   (D)   Screening method. An opaque barrier shall be provided which visually
screens the conditions listed above from less intensive uses as follows:
      (1)   A solid wood, PVC, and/or masonry fence or wall at least six feet
in height.
      (2)   A landscaping screen, using evergreen or deciduous materials,
capable of providing a substantially opaque, hedge-like barrier which will be
capable of providing a solid screen within three years of planting.
      (3)   A landscaped earth berm with a maximum slope of three to one,
rising no less than six feet above the existing grade of the lot line
separating the zoning districts.
      (4)   A chain-link fence with an opaque barrier incorporated into it,
such as slats, with at least six feet in height.
      (5)   Any combination of these methods that achieves a cumulative minimum
height of six feet and provides an opaque barrier.
   (E)   Location of screening. Any screening method shall be installed within
the required bufferyard or in close proximity of the items listed in this
section (§
25-22-7 C 1-6).
   (F)   Drainage. Screening shall not adversely affect surface water drainage.
   (G)   Permitted interruptions of screening. Screening may be interrupted to
provide access drives to service areas or for loading purposes to buildings.
Such breaks or interruptions shall not exceed 20% of the length of the required
screened area.
(Ord. 4276, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-8 PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING.
   Landscape requirements. Interior and perimeter landscaping shall be provided
for all parking facilities larger than 6,000 square feet to buffer the facility
from surrounding properties and rights-of-way; reduce the environmental effects
of large, hard-surfaced area; and improve the retention and absorption of storm
water runoff. Parking facilities with an area less than 6,000 square feet shall
be exempt from the interior landscaping requirements; parking facilities under
2,000 square feet shall be exempt from both perimeter and interior landscaping
requirements.
   (A)   Perimeter landscaping requirements.
      (1)   Each off-street parking facility shall provide a minimum landscaped
buffer of ten feet with a three feet minimum screen along any street property
line.
         (a)   Perimeter landscaping required depth may be reduced not to less
than five feet in order to meet off-street parking requirements.
      (2)   Each parking facility that abuts a residential district shall
provide a 20 foot landscaped buffer along its common property line with the
residential district.
      (3)   A parking facility which abuts property in a residential district
shall provide a fence, wall, landscape screen, or earth berm not less than four
feet in height for the length of the common boundary. A grade change, terrace,
or other site feature which blocks the sight line of headlights into a
residential property may satisfy this requirement, subject to the determination
of the City Planner.
      (4)   Landscaping or screening installed in any required landscaped area
shall not obstruct the view from the off-street parking facility to any
driveway approach, street, alley, or sidewalk. Landscaping shall further not
obstruct any views among parking spaces and circulation ways, or visibility
between vehicles and pedestrians. (See §
25-2-104.1 for sight triangle requirements).
   (B)   Interior landscaping requirements.
      (1)   Each parking facility of over 6,000 square feet shall provide
interior landscaped area equal to no less than 5% of the total paved area of
the parking facility.
         (a)   Parking facilities within the M-1 and M-2 Districts shall be
exempt from this requirement.
      (2)   Interior and endcap landscape islands shall not be less than nine
feet in width and 18 feet in length for a single row of parking spaces, or 36
feet in length for a double row of spaces with five foot curb radii at both
ends.
      (3)   Corner landscape islands shall be defined by extensions of the
edges of intersection parking spaces.
      (4)   Landscape islands shall be evenly distributed to the maximum extent
possible.
      (5)   Landscape strips may be used in place of individual interior
landscape islands if they comply with the following standards:
         (a)   The minimum width of a landscape strip shall be six feet and the
minimum length shall be 70 feet.
         (b)   The landscape strip shall contain a minimum of one tree every 18
feet or at least 50% vegetative cover other than turf grass.
         (c)   Wheel stops shall be placed in a location to prevent vehicles
from overhanging the landscape strip more than 12 inches.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0783407908d75783f018f97f9350015499280c1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6265.png]
 
   (C)   Planting requirements.
      (1)   Each interior or endcap island shall be planted with a minimum of:
         (a)   One large tree or two small trees; and
         (b)   With the remaining area in groundcover, which may be sod,
ornamental grasses, organic mulch, or perennial or seasonal plantings, or
shrubs spaced in accordance with common horticultural practices. Rock mulch may
only be used if pre-approved by the City Planner.
      (2)   Each parking facility corner island shall be planted with two large
trees or five small trees spaced in accordance with common horticultural
practices, with the remaining area in groundcover, which may be sod, ornamental
grasses, organic mulch, or perennial or seasonal plantings, or shrubs spaced in
accordance with common horticultural practices. Rock mulch may only be used if
pre-approved by the City Planner.
      (3)   Each perimeter landscaping bed shall be planted with a minimum of
one tree for every 500 square feet, spaced in accordance with common
horticultural practices, with the remaining area in groundcover, which may be
sod, ornamental grasses, organic mulch, or perennial or seasonal plantings, or
shrubs spaced in accordance with common horticultural practices. Rock mulch may
only be used if pre- approved by the City Planner.
      (4)   Trees shall meet the size requirements listed under §
25-22-4.
(Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-9 NATURE-BASED STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs).
   (A)   When a nature-based or natural functioning stormwater BMP is
installed, the BMP shall be landscaped and developed in such a way as to
enhance or be in harmony with the surrounding site landscape.
   (B)   Examples of nature-based BMPs include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Bioretention
      (2)   Retention ponds
      (3)   Extended detention basins
      (4)   Vegetated buffers
      (5)   Bioswales
      (6)   InfiItration basins/planters/trenches
      (7)   Rain gardens; and/or
      (8)   Constructed wetlands.
   (C)   Elements shall be “free form” following the natural contours of the
land. If land lacks contour, the BMP shall be created to look like a natural
landscape feature. Side slopes and lines should vary to give the appearance of
a natural condition.
      (1)   Trees and shrub of approved species shall be planted in groupings
intermittently along the BMP to create the appearance of the plants naturally
occurring.
      (2)   Erosion control measures approved by the Public Works Director or
his or her designee shall be required on all slopes.
   (D)   Stormwater BMPs shall meet all requirements of
Chapter 24 of the Municipal Code.
(Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-10 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   If, athe time of an application for a certificate of occupancy, any
required landscaping is not installed, the developer or owner of a site must
submit a performance guarantee (by bond, letter of credit or other security
approved in writing by the city attorney) satisfactory to the city in the
amount of the value of a bona fide contract to install such landscaping. Such a
contract must be reviewed and approved by the City Planner.
   (B)   The developer or owner shall grant the city permission to enter upon
the land to install required landscaping if this has not been done within 12
months of the effective date of the certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   The city shall release any bond or other arrangement immediately when
the Department of Development Services verifies that required landscaping has
been installed.
   (D)   These provisions shall not apply to single-family or two-family
residential uses exclusively.
(Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
§ 25-22-11 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Obstruction of view. Landscaping or screening installed in any
landscaped area shall not obstruct the view from or to any driveway approach,
street, alley, or sidewalk. (See §
25-2-104.1 for sight triangle requirements.)
   (B)   Earth berm locations. All earth berm locations shall be reviewed to
determine how the berms shall relate to drainage and public utilities.
   (C)   Refuse collection points shall always be screened with a six feet
opaque barrier.
   (D)   Exceptions. A development may continue to comply with the bufferyard
and screening requirements in effect at the time of issuance of its original
permit, regardless of whether an adjacent lot or site is subsequently rezoned
to a less intensive district which would otherwise require compliance with
bufferyard or screening provisions.
(Ord. 4280, passed 4-4-2022)
ARTICLE 23: AIRPORT ZONING OVERLAY AREA
Section
   
25-23-1   Purpose
   
25-23-2   Definitions
   
25-23-3   Adoption of Western Nebraska Regional Airport; airport layout plan
   
25-23-4   Airport hazard area description
   
25-23-5   Zone descriptions
   
25-23-6   Height restrictions
   
25-23-7   Use regulations
   
25-23-8   Nonconforming uses
   
25-23-9   Administration and enforcement of article
   
25-23-10   Permit; required and exceptions
   
25-23-11   Appeals
§ 25-23-1 PURPOSE.
   This article shall be known as the airport zoning regulations. These
regulations are intended to provide for the safe operation of aircraft into and
out of Western Nebraska Regional Airport, William G. Heilig Field.
§ 25-23-2 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be used for terms contained in this article
that are not otherwise defined.
   AIRPORT. The Western Nebraska Regional Airport, William G. Heilig Field,
Scottsbluff, Nebraska.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. William G. Heilig: 3,944 feet MSL.
   AIRPORT ENCROACHMENT. Any structure, tree, or use of land which obstructs
the airspace
required for the flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at Western
Nebraska Regional Airport, William G. Heilig Field, or is otherwise hazardous
to the operation of aircraft.
   AIRPORT ENCROACHMENT AREA. Any area of land or water upon which an airport
hazard might be established if not prevented by this article.
   DEPARTURE LIMIT. The horizontal line perpendicular to the runway centerline,
established as the beginning of the usable takeoff runway.
   ELECTRICAL FACILITY. An overhead electrical line, including poles or other
supporting structures, owned or operated by an electric supplier as defined in
Neb. RS 70-1001.01, for the transmission or distribution of electrical power to
the electric supplier’s customers.
   EXISTING RUNWAY. An instrument runway or a visual runway that is paved or
made for turf that has been constructed or is under construction.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport intended for use for the landing,
taking off, or taxiing of aircraft.
   LANDING THRESHOLD. A horizontal line, perpendicular to the runway
centerline, established as the beginning of the usable landing runway.
   LOCATIONS and BOARDERS. Vicinity of the airport located in Sections 16, 17,
20, and 21, Township 22, Range 54, Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey zero datum
plane, abbreviated MSL.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree, or use of land which does not
conform to the requirements of this article, or an amendment thereto, as of the
effective date of this article or amendment.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, or body politic, and includes any
trustee, receiver, assignee, or other similar representatives thereof.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Any municipality, city, village, or county.
   PROPOSED RUNWAY. An instrument runway or a visual runway that has not been
constructed and is not under construction, but that is depicted on the airport
layout plan that has been conditionally or unconditionally approved by, or has
been submitted for approval to the Federal Aviation Administration.
   RUNWAY. The portion of the landing area intended for the landing and/or
taking off of aircraft.
   STRUCTURE. Any object constructed or installed by human, including, but
without limitation, buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmission
lines.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth, except farm crops which are cut at least
once a year, and except shrubs, bushes, or plants which do not grow to a height
of more than five feet.
   ZONING REFERENCE POINT. The point of intersection of the centerline of
William B. Heilig Field, Runway 12/30 with the centerline of William B. Heilig
Field, Runway 5/23.
(Ord. 4173, passed - -2015)
§ 25-23-3 ADOPTION OF WESTERN NEBRASKA REGIONAL AIRPORT; AIRPORT LAYOUT PLAN.
   In order to define the dimensions of the zones established by these
regulations, the city hereby adopts the Airport Project No. 3-31-0072-22,
Airport Layout Plan, dated May 16, 1994. All subsequent adopted airport layout
plans are incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 4173, passed - -2015)
§ 25-23-4 AIRPORT HAZARD AREA DESCRIPTION.
   The airport hazard area shall consist of operation zones, approach zones,
turning zones, and transition zones as described in this article.
(Ord. 4173, passed - -2015)
§ 25-23-5 ZONE DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   The operation zones are longitudinally centered on each existing or
proposed runway.
      (1)   Length. For existing and proposed paved runways, the operation
zones begin and end 200 feet beyond the end of each runway. For existing and
proposed turf runways, the operation zones begin and end at the runway ends.
      (2)   Width. For existing and proposed instrument runways, the operation
zones are 1,000 feet
wide, with 500 feet on either side of the runway centerline. For all other
existing and proposed runways, the operation zones are 500 feet wide, with 250
feet on either side of the runway centerline.
      (3)   Height. The height limit of the operation zones is the same as the
height of the nearest point on an existing or proposed runway or the surface of
the ground, whichever is higher.
   (B)   The approach zones extend from the end of each operation zone and are
centered along the extended runway centerlines. An approach zones’ dimensions
are as follows.
      (1)   Instrument runways.
         (a)   Length and width. The approach zone extends ten miles from the
operation zone, measured along the extended runway centerline. The approach
zone is 1,000 feet wide at the end of the nearest runway (such as, adjacent to
the operation zone) and expands uniformly to 16,840 feet wide at the farthest
end of the zone (such as, ten miles from the operation zone).
         (b)   Height limit. The height limit of an approach zone begins at the
elevation of the runway end for which it is the approach and rises one foot
vertically for every 50 feet horizontally (50:1), except that the height limit
shall not exceed 150 feet above the nearest existing or proposed runway end
elevation within three miles of the end of the operation zone at the runway
end. At three miles from said operation zone, the height limit resumes sloping
one-foot vertically for every 50 feet horizontally (50:1) and continues to the
ten-mile limit.
      (2)   Visual runways.
         (a)   Length and width. An approach zone extends from the operation
zone to the limits of the turning zone, measured along the extended runway
centerline. The approach zone is 500 feet wide at the end of the zone nearest
the runway (such as, adjacent to the operation zone) and expands uniformly so
that at a point on the extended runway centerline three miles from the
operation zone, the approach zone is 3,700 feet wide.
         (b)   Height. The highest limit of an approach zone begins at the
elevation of the runway and for which it is the approach and rises one-foot
vertically for every 40 feet horizontally, except that the height limit shall
not exceed 150 feet above the nearest existing or proposed runway and elevation
within three miles of the end of the operation zone at the runway end.
   (C)   The transition zones extend outward at a right angle to the runway
centerline and upward at a rate of one-foot vertically for every seven feet
horizontally (7:1). The height limit of a transition zone begins at the height
limit of the adjacent approach zone or operation zone and ends at a height of
150 feet above the highest elevation on the existing or proposed runway.
   (D)   The turning zones are located at a distance of three miles radius from
the corners of the operational zone and each runway and conceding adjacent arcs
with tangent lines, excluding any area within the operation zone, approach
zone, or transition zone. The height limit of the turning zone is 150 feet
above the highest elevation on the existing or proposed runway.
(Ord. 4173, passed - -2015)
§ 25-23-6 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   No building, transmission line, pole, tower, chimney, wires, or other
structure or appurtenance of any kind or character shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, repaired, or established, nor shall any tree or other object of
natural growth be allowed to grow, above the heights described in §
25-23-5 of this article.
(Ord. 4173, passed - -2015)
§ 25-23-7 USE REGULATIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no use may be made of
any land within any runway area zone, approach-departure zone, horizontal zone,
conical zone, or transition zone in any manner as to create electrical
interference with the radio or radar communication or navigation aids between
the airport and aircraft; make it difficult for air crews to distinguish
between airport lights and others; result in glare in the eye of air crews
using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; or
otherwise endanger the landing, taking off, or maneuvering of a aircraft within
the zones in this article.
(Ord. 4173, passed - -2015)
§ 25-23-8 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Continuation of lawful nonconforming uses. Any land use lawfully
existing on the effective date of this article may continue, subject to the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Enlarging degree of nonconformance. No nonconforming structure or tree
shall be built, replaced, altered, replanted, or allowed to grow to a height
that increases the degree of nonconformance or that violates the height limits
established by this article.
   (C)   Damage or destruction.
      (1)   Should a structure occupied by a lawful nonconforming use be
damaged to the extent that the cost of restoration exceeds 50% of the
replacement cost of the structure, the nonconforming use shall no longer be
permitted.
      (2)   Any non conforming tree which has been damaged or decayed to the
extent of 50% or more shall be removed.
   (D)   Abandonment. If any structure or property containing a lawful
nonconforming use becomes vacant or unused for a continuous period of six
months or longer, any subsequent use must conform to all airport zoning
regulations.
   (E)   Unlawful nonconforming uses. These provisions shall not be interpreted
as authorization for or approval of the continuation of any structure, use, or
tree in violation of any zoning regulations in effect on or before the
effective date of this article.
(Ord. 4173, passed - -2015)
§ 25-23-9 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE.
   The location of various encroachment areas is within the city. It shall be
the duty of the city Development Services Department (“Development Services
Department”) to enforce this article, and the Development Services Department
is appointed the “administrative agency” provided for in Neb. RS 3-319. The
Development Services Department shall have all the powers and perform all
duties as provided by the Airport Zoning Act.
§ 25-23-10 PERMIT; REQUIRED AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall hereafter be unlawful to erect, construct,
reconstruct, repair, or establish any building, transmission line, pole, tower,
chimney, wires, or any other structure or appurtenance within the hazard area
without first obtaining a permit from the Development Services Department upon
a form furnished by it. Any application shall be promptly considered and
granted or denied. Applications for action by the Board of Adjustment shall be
transmitted in accordance with the applicable provisions of the airport zoning
regulations, appropriate city and/or county ordinances, and/or state law. It
shall also be unlawful to plant or replant any tree or other object of natural
growth without the necessary permit.
   (B)   Permit exceptions. Within the outer area of the approach zones and
within the turning zones, no permit shall be required for any construction or
planting that is not higher than 75 feet above the nearest existing or proposed
runway end. The repair, reconstruction, or replacement of nonconforming
electric facilities will be permitted in compliance with Neb. RS 3-311(3).
   (C)   Location sketch and zoning map. The boundaries, approach zones,
operations zone, transition zones, and turning zones of the airport are
indicated on the zoning map that accompanies and is made a part of this article
by reference. A copy of the airport hazard area zoning regulations shall at all
times be on file in the office of the Airport Director located at Western
Nebraska Regional Airport.
(Ord. 4173, passed - -2015)
§ 25-23-11 APPEALS.
   (A)   Designation of Board of Adjustment. The city Board of Adjustment shall
be the Board of Adjustment with respect to this article, and shall have and
exercise the powers conferred by Neb. RS 3-320, and such other powers and
duties as are conferred and imposed by law. Any person aggrieved or affected by
any decisions or actions made in administration of this article may appeal such
decision or action to the Board of Adjustment. Any appeal taken pursuant to
this article shall be by the procedure established by law.
   (B)   Powers of the Zoning Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment
shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, or decision
made by the Development Services Department in the enforcement of this article;
      (2)   To hear and decide any special exemptions to the terms of this
article which the Board of Adjustment may be required to pass under this
article; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances under Neb. RS 3-312.
   (C)   Appeal from the decisions of Board of Adjustment. Any person aggrieved
or affected by a decision of the Board of Adjustment may appeal to the District
Court for the county, in the manner provided in Neb. RS 3-324 et seq.
(Ord. 4173, passed - -2015)
ARTICLE 24: WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   
25-24-1   Intent and purpose
   
25-24-2   Definitions
   
25-24-3   Zoning; towers; height restrictions
   
25-24-4   Conditional use permits
   
25-24-5   Preferred areas
   
25-24-6   Tower placement
   
25-24-7   Compliance with zoning, FAA, and FCC regulations
   
25-24-8   Provider cooperation
   
25-24-9   Tower and WCF site maintenance
   
25-24-10   Tower inactivity
§ 25-24-1 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the WCF regulations is to encourage and promote
wireless communications coverage for all areas of the city while minimizing the
visual, environmental, and neighborhood impacts. The goals include providing
personal wireless services throughout the city quickly, effectively, and
efficiently while ensuring that basic matters such as FAA, FCC, and airport
zoning requirements are met as well as addressing security, decommissioning,
and preferred locations.
   (B)   More preferred locations include commercial, industrial, and
agricultural areas and less preferred locations include residential areas. More
preferred locations in residential areas include public lands, proximity to
existing overhead utility corridors, and proximity or attachment to existing
structures that might assist with screening.
§ 25-24-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, certain terms and words are defined as
follows.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior device designed and intended for telephonic, radio,
data, internet, or television communications through the sending and/or
receiving of electromagnetic waves. For purposes of this article, ANTENNA shall
not include an ANTENNA used by an amateur radio operator nor an ANTENNA or
satellite dish used for the private or non-commercial reception of television
or radio signals.
   ANTENNA HEIGHT. The vertical distance from natural grade to the top of all
appurtenances.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or structure other than a tower
which can be used for location of telecommunications facilities.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   PWS (PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER). A personal wireless service
facility owner, operator, lessee, or any officer or employee thereof.
   TOWER(S). Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers, or monopole towers.
   UTILITY SUBLOT. A lot that may be smaller than the minimum allowed in a
district or otherwise out of standard compliance. A UTILITY SUBLOT must have
legal vehicular access. Water may be allowed for property maintenance, but
there shall be no sewer service allowed.
   WCF. A wireless telecommunications facility.
   WCF SITE. A tract or parcel of land that contains the personal wireless
service facilities, including any antenna, support structure, accessory
building, and parking, and may include other uses associated with and ancillary
to personal wireless services.
§ 25-24-3 ZONING; TOWERS; HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Antennas in all zoning districts may be allowed after administrative
review and approval of the appropriate planning and building official when
attached to existing structure, including rooftops, building faces, water
tower, or existing utility structure provided the antenna does not exceed 12
feet in height above the existing structure and blends in with said structure.
   (B)   This article recognizes two types of towers associated with PWS: those
up to 75 feet in height, which are constructed primarily for local distribution
and reception of wireless signals; and those greater than 75 feet in height,
which are constructed primarily for the concentration and transmission of
signals to and from other towers.
   (C)   Towers of any height shall be a conditionally permitted use by special
review in A Agricultural and AR Agricultural Residential Districts.
   (D)   Except as noted in division (E) below and §
25-24-7 of this article, towers over 75 feet in height shall not be affected by
the ordinances set forth in this article.
   (E)   Towers no greater than 75 feet in height shall be a conditionally
permitted use by special review in all zones, except where current zoning
permits towers as a use by right. However, allowances may be made to towers
exceeding 75 feet in height if such towers must be extended due to local
circumstances or to accommodate co-location by other PWS. The conditions set
forth in this article shall apply to towers.
§ 25-24-4 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   Applications for conditional use permits (CUP) shall include the following:
The legal description of the parcel upon which the PWS facilities are to be
located; a survey of the parcel by a licensed surveyor; a scaled site plan
clearly indicating the location, type, and height of proposed tower; adjacent
land uses and zoning; and adjacent roadways and proposed means of access. The
site plan shall indicate the antenna, antenna support structure, building,
fencing, buffering, and all other items required in this article.
§ 25-24-5 PREFERRED AREAS.
   There are more preferred areas for towers and less preferred areas for
towers. More preferred areas include: parks, public lands, proximity to
existing overhead utility corridors, and proximity to what might be termed
“shadow” structures, such as churches, schools, and public facilities,
especially those that are multi-story. Less preferred areas might include
subdivisions that are wholly served by underground utilities.
§ 25-24-6 TOWER PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Towers, where possible, shall be constructed on existing utility
easements and rights-of-way, subject to existing utility restrictions, such as
areas where underground utilities are required.
   (B)   Towers may be constructed on private land, as a permanent easement, as
a land rental arrangement, or on a lot owned by the PWS. Creation of utility-
type sub-lots will not be subject to minimum lot size as set forth in
Chapter 20 of this code of ordinances, but will be subject to access
requirements and no water service.
   (C)   Required setbacks will be determined on individual site basis through
review of each conditional use permit. Collapsible tower design may be required
in certain instances.
   (D)   Towers may be built on municipal land subject to the conditional use
permit process and subject to such legal and administrative contracts as deemed
appropriate and necessary by the planning and development official.
   (E)   Towers may be required to blend in and enhance comparability with
adjacent land uses as reasonably feasible.
   (F)   Towers must be enclosed and secured by a chain-link fence or
equivalent, of a minimum of six feet in height, however an appropriate privacy-
type fence may be required to improve compatibility in residential
neighborhoods. Anti-climb protection must be installed to prevent, to the
extent possible, unauthorized access. The security fence must enclose all
components of the site, including footings, guy wires (if present), cabinets,
equipment building, and back-up generator. No property line setbacks are
automatically required for towers in this category, however, the security fence
enclosure must be adequate for the safe access and maintenance of the tower and
its equipment.
§ 25-24-7 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING, FAA, AND FCC REGULATIONS.
   PWS must provide evidence that proposed towers have met all applicable
regulations, including local airport zoning, prior to construction and be
compliant with E-911 public safety access point. PWS must also submit an
airport obstruction evaluation/airport airspace analysis (FAA Form 7460-1)
aeronautical study to FAA for determination of tower obstruction to aviation
operations. An FAA approved airspace analysis report shall be submitted to the
planning and development official prior to any tower construction commencing.
§ 25-24-8 PROVIDER COOPERATION.
   (A)   No PWS shall act to exclude any other PWS from using the same
facility, building, structure, or location. PWSs shall cooperate in good faith
to achieve co-location of facilities and equipment with other PWSs.
   (B)   Upon request by the city, a PWS shall provide evidence why co-location
is not feasible.
§ 25-24-9 TOWER AND WCF SITE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Any tower approved in this article must be maintained in a manner
consistent with generally accepted industry practices. A tower may be inspected
at any time, subject to approved access by the service provider, to ensure the
safety of the general public. Any deficiencies in structure or operation shall
be promptly remedied.
   (B)   The property and WCF site shall be maintained in a reasonable manner
and be kept weed free; options can include rock, mulch, landscaping, and
maintenance or any combination thereof.
§ 25-24-10 TOWER INACTIVITY.
   A PWS or its successors or assigns shall promptly remove a tower and return
the WCF site to its pre-construction conditions, should a tower be
decommissioned or otherwise deemed unnecessary or unusable.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA STATUTES
Neb. RS Section                         Code Section
3-311(3)                                25-23-10
3-312                                   25-23-11
3-319                                   25-23-9
3-320                                   25-23-11
3-324 et seq.                           25-23-11
9-201 et seq.                           11-1-28,
                                        13-8-1
9-301 et seq.                           13-8-1
9-401 et seq.                           13-8-1
9-501 et seq.                           13-8-1
9-601 et seq.                           13-8-1
9-701                                   13-8-1
9-801 et seq.                           13-8-1
13-901 et seq.                          20-7-24
16-205                                  Chapter 11, Article 2
16-207 et seq.                          Chapter 20
16-211                                  Chapter 17, Article 2
16-212                                  Chapter 17, Article 2
16-230                                  Chapter 12
16-231                                  Chapter 9
16-234                                  Chapter 4
16-240                                  Chapter 9,
                                        25-1-3.1
16-241 et seq.                          Chapter 5
16-247                                  Chapter 14, Article 2
16-249                                  Chapter 20, Article 2
16-250                                  Chapter 20, Article 3
16-251                                  Chapter 10
16-321                                  4-6-18,
                                        4-6-30
16-401 et seq.                          Chapter 6, Article 1
16-609 et seq.                          Chapter 20, Article 2
16-614                                  Chapter 20, Article 1
16-646                                  4-6-22
16-661 et seq.                          Chapter 20, Article 3
16-671                                  21-1-30
16-702                                  4-6-22
16-707                                  4-6-22
Chapter 16, Article 9                   25-1-3.1
Chapter 16, Article 10, subdivision (a) 6-5-104,
                                        6-5-110
Chapter 16, Article 10, subdivision (b) 6-5-84
16-1039                                 6-5-87
18-132 et seq.                          Chapter 4
18-401 et seq.                          Chapter 18
18-501 et seq.                          Chapter 18
18-1508                                 Chapter 1
18-1720                                 Chapter 12
18-1722                                 Chapter 4, Article 6
18-1722.01                              Chapter 4, Article 6
18-1901 et seq.                         Chapter 4, Article 3
18-2101 et seq.                         6-2-94.2
18-2102.01                              6-2-90
19-101 et seq.                          Chapter 19
19-611 et seq.                          Chapter 6, Article 1
19-904                                  25-13-5
19-905                                  25-13-5
19-910                                  25-2-137,
                                        25-19-37
19-912                                  25-9-18
19-912-R.R.S. 1943                      25-9-18
                                        6-2-76,
19-1826                                 6-2-77,
                                        6-2-79,
                                        6-2-84
                                        6-2-76,
19-1827                                 6-2-77,
                                        6-2-79,
                                        6-2-84
19-2417 et seq.                         Chapter 20, Article 3
19-3501                                 Chapter 6, Article 5
25-13-4                                 25-13-13
25-13-12                                25-13-13
Chapter 28, Article 4                   12-1-3
28-401 et seq.                          Chapter 6, Article 7
28-431                                  22-1-2,
                                        22-9-10
28-510 et seq.                          Chapter 13, Article 2
28-519                                  Chapter 13, Article 2
28-520 et seq.                          Chapter 13, Article 2
28-610                                  Chapter 13, Article 5
28-801 et seq.                          Chapter 13, Article 9
28-903                                  Chapter 13, Article 5
28-1101 et seq.                         Chapter 13, Article 8
28-1255                                 8-1-32
28-1322                                 Chapter 13, Article 3
31-1001 to 31-1023                      25-19-2
Chapter 32                              7-1-2
Chapter 35                              6-2-141
37-101                                  2-1-18
45-104.01                               6-6-7.1
46-1601 to 46-1670                      25-19-1
49-14,103.01 through 49-14,103.03       6-1-5
49-14,103.06                            6-1-5
                                        6-2-109,
                                        6-2-110,
                                        11-1-6,
                                        11-1-14,
53-101 et seq.                          11-1-18,
                                        11-1-23,
                                        11-1-82,
                                        11-2-4,
                                        13-6-1
53-124.11                               11-1-87
53-134                                  11-1-87
53-160                                  6-6-18
60-3,113                                22-6-47
60-401 et seq.                          22-7-5
60-498.01 to 60-498.04                  22-5-2
60-498.02                               22-5-2
60-624                                  22-5-2
60-699                                  22-7-5
60-6,142                                3-5-3
60-6,196                                22-5-3
60-6,197                                22-5-3
60-6,197.01                             22-5-4
60-6,198                                22-5-3
60-6,211.05                             22-5-4
60-6,257                                22-3-11
60-6,315 et seq.                        Chapter 13, Article 2
60-6,318                                Chapter 13, Article 2
60-6,319                                Chapter 13, Article 2
60-6,375                                3-5-3
60-6,278 through 60-6,282               3-5-3,
                                        22-7-5
66-489                                  6-6-18
66-489.02                               6-6-18
66-4,140                                6-6-18
66-4,145                                6-6-18
66-4,146                                6-6-18
69-202                                  11-1-66
69-2427 et seq.                         13-1-1.1
71-401 et seq.                          22-5-8
70-1001.01                              25-23-2
71-1557                                 25-2-78
Chapter 71, Article 46                  4-10-1,
                                        4-10-2
77-2602                                 6-6-18
Chapter 71, Article 27                  11-1-30,
                                        11-2-6
77-2704.24                              6-6-18
77-27,142 et seq.                       6-6-18
77-4009                                 6-6-18
84-712.01                               6-2-129
A1-109                                  Chapter 1, Article 2
                                        
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     1-1-2 -
                     1-1-12,
                     1-1-14,
                     1-2-8 -
                     1-2-18,
                     2-2-5 -
                     2-2-7,
                     2-6-2 -
                     2-6-4,
                     3-1-4,
                     3-1-5,
                     3-1-8 -
                     3-1-12,
                     3-2-3,
                     3-2-9 -
                     3-2-14,
                     4-1-18 -
                     4-1-20,
                     4-1-27 -
                     4-1-30,
                     4-2-10 -
                     4-2-17,
                     4-2-19 -
                     4-2-26,
                     4-2-42,
                     4-3-35,
                     4-3-40 -
                     4-3-42,
                     4-3-50 -
                     4-3-56,
                     4-3-60 -
                     4-3-62,
                     4-3-72 -
                     4-3-79,
                     4-3-85 -
                     4-3-90,
                     4-3-92 -
                     4-3-94,
                     4-3-105,
                     4-3-106,
                     4-3-108 -
                     4-3-113,
                     4-3-119 -
                     4-3-125,
                     4-3-127,
                     4-3-129 -
                     4-3-131,
                     4-3-136,
                     4-3-137,
                     4-3-142 -
                     4-3-144,
                     4-3-146,
                     4-3-148 -
                     4-3-150,
                     4-3-155,
                     4-4-1 -
                     4-4-5,
                     4-5-8,
                     4-6-1,
                     4-6-8,
                     4-6-12,
                     4-6-30,
                     4-6-32,
                     4-6-33,
                     5-1-3,
                     5-1-5,
                     5-1-6 -
                     5-1-9,
                     5-1-11,
                     5-1-12,
                     5-1-14,
                     5-1-15,
                     5-1-17 -
                     5-1-19,
                     5-1-22,
                     5-1-23,
                     5-1-26,
                     5-1-27,
                     5-1-29,
                     6-1-14,
                     6-1-16 -
                     6-1-20,
                     6-1-23 -
                     6-1-39,
                     6-1-45,
                     6-1-46,
                     6-1-51,
                     6-1-53,
                     6-2-3 -
                     6-2-6,
                     6-2-8 -
                     6-2-14,
                     6-4-3 -
                     6-4-8,
                     7-1-2,
                     7-1-3,
                     9-1-2 -
                     9-1-7,
                     9-1-9,
                     10-1-1 -
                     10-1-7,
                     11-1-1,
                     11-1-6,
                     11-1-7,
                     11-1-12 -
                     11-1-17,
                     11-1-19 -
                     11-1-22,
                     11-1-36 -
                     11-1-40,
                     11-1-42 -
                     11-1-47,
                     11-1-69,
                     11-1-91,
                     11-2-1,
                     11-2-3,
                     11-2-8 -
                     11-2-10,
                     11-3-1 -
                     11-3-4,
                     13-1-2, 13-1-3,
                     13-2-4 -
                     13-2-8,
                     13-3-1 -
                     13-3-3,
                     13-3-15,
                     13-3-16,
                     13-3-19,
                     13-3-20,
                     13-4-2,
                     13-4-4,
                     13-5-1,
                     13-6-3,
                     13-7-1 -
                     13-7-8,
                     13-7-10 -
                     13-7-14,
                     13-8-2 -
                     13-8-4,
                     13-9-3,
                     13-9-4,
                     13-10-4,
                     13-10-6,
                     13-10-9 -
                     13-10-11,
                     13-10-13,
                     13-10-14,
                     14-1-1 -
                     14-1-6,
                     14-2-2 -
                     14-2-8,
                     14-2-10,
                     14-2-11,
                     15-1-2,
                     15-1-3,
                     15-1-5,
                     17-1-1,
                     17-1-3 -
                     17-1-7,
                     17-2-1,
                     17-2-4 -
                     17-2-9,
                     19-1-1,
                     19-1-2,
                     19-1-4 -
1116     2-25-1957   19-1-7,
                     19-1-9 - 19-1-14,
                     19-1-17,
                     19-2-3,
                     19-2-6,
                     19-2-8,
                     19-2-9,
                     19-3-13,
                     19-3-15,
                     19-4-2,
                     20-1-1,
                     20-1-11,
                     20-1-12,
                     20-2-1,
                     20-2-2,
                     20-3-1,
                     20-3-6 -
                     20-3-10,
                     20-3-15,
                     20-3-16,
                     20-4-1,
                     20-5-1 -
                     20-5-14,
                     20-5-16,
                     20-5-17,
                     20-5-20 -
                     20-5-24,
                     20-5-28,
                     20-5-31,
                     20-5-32,
                     20-6-2 -
                     20-6-7,
                     20-6-11,
                     20-6-13,
                     20-6-14,
                     20-6-17,
                     20-6-31,
                     20-6-33 -
                     20-6-35,
                     20-6-37 -
                     20-6-50,
                     21-1-11 -
                     21-1-13,
                     21-1-15 -
                     21-1-23,
                     21-1-25,
                     21-1-26,
                     21-1-29 -
                     21-1-33,
                     21-1-36,
                     21-1-38,
                     21-1-40,
                     21-1-41,
                     21-1-43 -
                     21-1-49,
                     21-1-53,
                     21-1-55,
                     21-1-59,
                     21-1-61,
                     21-1-62,
                     21-2-1 -
                     21-2-3,
                     22-1-1,
                     22-1-3,
                     22-1-4,
                     22-1-6 -
                     22-1-12,
                     22-1-14,
                     22-1-16 -
                     22-1-48,
                     22-2-1,
                     22-2-4 -
                     22-2-7,
                     22-2-9 -
                     22-2-11,
                     22-2-16 -
                     22-2-19,
                     22-2-21,
                     22-2-24 -
                     22-2-28,
                     22-2-36 -
                     22-2-41,
                     22-2-46,
                     22-2-48 -
                     22-2-50,
                     22-2-55 -
                     22-2-61,
                     22-2-67,
                     22-2-68,
                     22-2-76 -
                     22-2-78,
                     22-2-83 -
                     22-2-86,
                     22-2-109,
                     22-2-118 -
                     22-2-122,
                     22-2-124,
                     22-2-127 -
                     22-2-129,
                     22-2-131,
                     22-2-132,
                     22-3-1,
                     22-3-2,
                     22-3-4,
                     22-3-6 -
                     22-3-11,
                     22-3-13,
                     22-3-14,
                     22-3-17 -
                     22-3-19,
                     22-4-2 -
                     22-4-7,
                     22-6-3,
                     22-6-9,
                     22-6-15 -
                     22-6-19,
                     22-6-21 -
                     22-6-25,
                     22-6-34,
                     22-6-36,
                     22-6-37,
                     22-6-39,
                     22-6-41,
                     22-6-46,
                     22-7-1 -
                     22-7-4,
                     22-8-1,
                     22-8-3 -
                     22-8-6,
                     22-8-8,
                     22-8-9,
                     22-9-1 -
                     22-9-5,
                     22-9-7,
                     22-9-9,
                     22-9-11 -
                     22-9-13,
                     22-9-17 -
                     22-9-20,
                     22-10-2,
                     22-10-3,
                     23-1-1 -
                     23-1-4,
                     23-1-6,
                     23-1-7,
                     23-1-12,
                     23-1-13,
                     23-1-16,
                     23-1-18,
                     23-1-21,
                     23-1-30,
                     23-1-31,
                     23-2-1,
                     23-2-4,
                     23-2-9,
                     23-2-10,
                     23-2-12,
                     23-2-14,
                     23-2-17 -
                     23-2-20,
                     23-2-22,
                     23-3-2 -
                     23-3-4,
                     23-3-6 -
                     23-3-8,
                     23-5-1,
                     23-5-2
1158     - -1958     6-2-8
1159     - -1958     14-2-5
1168     - -1958     22-2-19,
                     22-8-5
1194     - -1977     11-1-46
1202     - -1958     22-9-2
                     21-1-12,
                     21-1-13,
                     21-1-15 -
                     21-1-23,
                     21-1-25,
                     21-1-26,
1225     - -1959     21-1-32,
                     21-1-33,
                     21-1-36,
                     21-1-38,
                     21-1-41,
                     21-1-55,
                     21-1-59,
                     21-1-62
1268     - -1960     21-1-31
1306     4-10-1961   22-2-26,
                     22-2-27
1363     - -1962     22-6-9
1445     - -1963     22-10-2
1458     3-9-1964    3-1-11,
                     3-2-10
1487     - -1965     22-6-22
                     22-2-4,
1539     - -1965     22-2-78,
                     22-6-16,
                     22-6-17
1561     - -1966     22-6-41,
                     22-6-46
1589     - -1966     22-2-58
1641     - -1967     4-5-8
                     10-1-3,
1698     - -1968     10-1-5,
                     10-1-6
1706     - -1968     17-1-6
1715     - -1968     13-7-10 -
                     13-7-14
                     22-2-38,
                     22-2-48,
1723     - -1968     22-2-55,
                     22-2-127 -
                     22-2-129,
                     22-6-24
1723     - -1968     22-8-9
                     20-6-37 -
1756     - -1969     20-6-45,
                     20-6-47 -
                     20-6-50
                     11-1-12 -
1767     - -1969     11-1-14,
                     11-1-17
1771     - -1982     4-6-3
1797     - -1969     22-2-60
                     23-1-1 -
                     23-1-4,
                     23-1-6,
                     23-1-7,
                     23-1-12,
                     23-1-13,
                     23-1-16,
                     23-1-18,
                     23-1-30,
                     23-1-31,
                     23-2-1,
1873     - -1970     23-2-4,
                     23-2-9,
                     23-2-10,
                     23-2-14,
                     23-2-17 -
                     23-2-20,
                     23-2-22,
                     23-3-2 -
                     23-3-4,
                     23-3-6 -
                     23-3-8,
                     23-5-1,
                     23-5-2
1878     - -1971     7-1-3
1889     - -1971     22-6-15
1901     - -1971     4-6-32,
                     4-6-33
1904     - -1971     13-7-2 -
                     13-7-8
                     22-3-19,
                     22-9-1,
                     22-9-3 -
                     22-9-5,
1906     - -1971     22-9-7,
                     22-9-9,
                     22-9-11 -
                     22-9-13,
                     22-9-17 -
                     22-9-20
1918     - -1972     13-3-2
1924     - -1972     6-1-46
1925     - -1972     22-2-25
1929     - -1972     20-6-14
                     2-2-5,
1935     - -1972     2-2-6,
                     2-2-7,
                     2-6-2
1941     - -1972     6-4-3 -
                     6-4-8
1943     - -1972     6-1-14, 6-1-17 -
                     6-1-19
1944     - -1972     22-2-11
                     19-1-1,
                     19-1-2,
                     19-1-4 -
                     19-1-7,
                     19-1-9 -
1945     - -1972     19-1-11, 19-1-14,
                     19-1-17,
                     19-2-3,
                     19-2-8,
                     19-3-13,
                     19-3-15
1987     - -1973     21-1-11
1994     - -1973     7-1-2
                     9-1-6,
                     9-1-7,
1995     - -1973     13-3-15,
                     13-3-16,
                     13-3-19,
                     13-3-20
2000     - -1974     22-6-25
2052     - -1974     22-6-9
2081     - -1974     6-2-9
2100     - -1975     21-1-29,
                     21-1-30
2107     - -1975     22-2-76,
                     22-2-77
                     1-1-2 -
2109     - -1975     1-1-12,
                     1-1-14
2172     - -1976     22-2-24
                     5-1-3,
                     5-1-5 -
                     5-1-9,
                     5-1-11,
                     5-1-12,
2177     - -1976     5-1-14 -
                     5-1-20,
                     5-1-22,
                     5-1-23,
                     5-1-26,
                     5-1-27,
                     5-1-29
                     22-2-17,
2195     - -1976     22-2-18,
                     22-2-56,
                     22-2-57
                     4-2-10 -
                     4-2-17,
2200     - -1976     4-2-19 -
                     4-2-26,
                     4-2-42
2209     - -1976     15-1-3
2243     - -1976     6-2-13
                     22-1-7,
                     22-1-17,
2286     - -1977     22-2-84 -
                     22-2-86,
                     22-6-19,
                     22-6-34
                     11-1-36 -
                     11-1-40,
2294     - -1977     11-1-42 -
                     11-1-45,
                     11-1-47
                     19-1-12,
                     19-1-13,
2298     - -1977     19-2-6,
                     19-2-9,
                     19-4-2
2341     - -1977     22-2-109
2354     - -1977     21-2-1 -
                     21-2-3
                     21-1-43 -
                     21-1-45,
2359     - -1977     21-1-47,
                     21-1-49,
                     21-1-61
                     4-3-35,
                     4-3-40 -
                     4-3-42,
                     4-3-54 -
                     4-3-56,
                     4-3-60 -
                     4-3-62,
                     4-3-72 -
                     4-3-77,
                     4-3-79,
                     4-3-85 -
                     4-3-90,
                     4-3-92 -
                     4-3-94,
                     4-3-105,
2382     - -1978     4-3-106,
                     4-3-108 -
                     4-3-113,
                     4-3-119,
                     4-3-122 -
                     4-3-125,
                     4-3-127,
                     4-3-129 -
                     4-3-131,
                     4-3-136,
                     4-3-137,
                     4-3-142 -
                     4-3-144,
                     4-3-146,
                     4-3-148 -
                     4-3-150,
                     4-3-155
2389     - -1978     22-1-12,
                     22-6-36
                     4-1-18,
                     4-1-19,
2409     - -1978     4-1-23,
                     4-1-27 -
                     4-1-30
2418     - -1978     4-3-120,
                     4-3-121
2419     - -1978     21-1-48
2430     - -1978     22-2-67
2434     - -1978     20-6-46
2435     - -1978     5-1-24
2439     - -1978     22-8-4
                     4-3-50 -
2445     - -1979     4-3-53,
                     4-3-78
2451     - -1979     23-2-12
2455     - -1979     23-1-21
2459     - -1978     22-8-6
2463     - -1979     6-1-16,
                     6-1-20
                     22-2-1,
2468     - -1979     22-2-9,
                     22-2-10
2489     - -1979     21-1-40
2498     - -1979     22-1-37,
                     22-4-2
2499     - -1979     21-1-53
2523     - -1979     4-6-1
2531     - -1979     13-7-1
2537     - -1979     22-1-47
2543     - -1979     22-2-21
2554     - -1980     17-2-8
                     4-1-20,
2565     - -1980     4-6-8,
                     4-6-12,
                     4-6-30
                     22-1-1,
                     22-1-3,
                     22-1-4,
                     22-1-6,
                     22-1-8 -
                     22-1-11,
                     22-1-14,
2577     - -1980     22-1-16,
                     22-1-18 -
                     22-1-36,
                     22-1-38 -
                     22-1-46,
                     22-1-48,
                     22-2-16,
                     22-2-121
                     20-5-8,
2581     - -1980     20-5-23,
                     21-1-46
2597     - -1998     6-6-17
                     18-1-1,
                     18-1-2,
                     18-1-4 -
                     18-1-6,
                     18-1-8,
                     18-1-10,
                     18-1-11,
                     18-1-13 -
                     18-1-25,
                     18-1-27 -
                     18-1-29,
                     18-2-2 -
                     18-2-4,
                     18-2-6 -
                     18-2-8,
2613     - -1980     18-2-10,
                     18-2-14 -
                     18-2-16,
                     18-3-1,
                     18-3-4,
                     18-3-6,
                     18-3-8,
                     18-4-1,
                     18-4-2,
                     18-4-11,
                     18-4-12,
                     18-4-14,
                     18-4-17,
                     18-4-24,
                     18-5-1 -
                     18-5-3
2617     - -1980     22-6-33,
                     22-6-35
2623     - -1980     22-2-22
                     22-2-12,
2625     - -1980     22-2-13,
                     22-2-20
2637     - -1981     23-1-6 -
                     23-1-8
2654     - -1981     22-6-26
2663     - -1981     4-7-4 -
                     4-7-18
                     20-6-53 -
2664     - -1981     20-6-55,
                     20-6-60 -
                     20-6-64
                     13-4-3,
2672     - -1981     13-6-8 -
                     13-6-15
2678     - -1981     23-1-9
                     20-4-2,
2681     - -1981     20-4-3,
                     20-4-5,
                     20-4-6
2689     - -1981     6-4-2
2693     - -1981     10-1-4,
                     10-1-6
2695     - -1981     2-6-1
2697     - -1981     5-1-25
2704     - -1981     4-1-26,
                     19-3-5
2709     - -1981     23-1-11
2713     - -1982     20-6-20
2715     - -1982     2-2-3,
                     2-5-4
2717     1-25-1982   22-2-47
2722     - -1982     1-1-1,
                     1-1-13
2723     - -1982     15-1-19
2728     - -1982     20-6-15
2732     - -1982     22-4-1
2734     - -1982     5-1-13
2739     - -1982     18-1-12
2741     - -1982     20-3-4,
                     20-3-5
2742     - -1982     20-3-14
2744     - -1982     17-2-2,
                     20-5-33
2751     - -1982     17-2-3
2752     - -1982     20-3-3
2759     - -1982     18-4-13
2763     - -1982     4-3-126,
                     4-3-128
                     4-8-1 -
                     4-8-5,
2771     - -1982     4-8-7 -
                     4-8-12,
                     4-8-15 -
                     4-8-19
2801     - -1983     21-1-63
                     19-2-2,
2809     - -1983     19-2-7,
                     19-3-8
                     21-1-42,
2812     - -1983     21-1-60,
                     21-1-65,
                     21-1-66
                     16-2-1 -
                     16-2-4,
                     16-2-7 -
2827     - -1983     16-2-19,
                     16-2-21 -
                     16-2-30,
                     16-2-35
                     6-5-84 -
2839     - -1983     6-5-99,
                     6-5-104 -
                     6-5-125
2858     - -1984     15-1-18
2865     - -1984     13-6-16,
                     13-6-17
                     11-1-65,
2873     - -1984     11-1-67,
                     11-1-68
                     6-1-1 -
                     6-1-3,
2883     - -1984     6-1-13,
                     6-1-15,
                     6-1-22
                     13-2-2,
2885     - -1984     13-2-9,
                     13-2-10
2887     - -1984     13-6-18
2888     - -1984     11-1-70
                     4-1-5,
2892     - -1984     4-2-27,
                     4-3-44
2897     - -1985     2-5-3
2900     - -1985     4-3-59,
                     4-3-70
                     4-9-1 -
2903     - -1985     4-9-3,
                     4-9-5 -
                     4-9-7
2907     - -1985     4-10-1,
                     4-10-2
2909     - -1985     22-2-8
2910     - -1985     22-8-7
                     2-1-2,
2915     - -1985     2-1-6,
                     2-1-7
2933     - -1985     11-2-7
2947     - -1985     23-1-14,
                     23-1-29
2961     - -1986     16-2-20,
                     16-2-33
2962     - -1986     11-4-2 -
                     11-4-10
                     11-1-83,
2973     - -1986     11-1-85,
                     11-1-86
2977     - -1986     11-1-84
3004     - -1986     11-1-10
                     4-1-22,
                     4-1-31,
3006     - -1986     4-3-64,
                     4-3-95,
                     4-3-96
3018     - -1987     22-6-45
3025     - -1987     4-3-71
3044     - -1987     23-1-23
3056     - -1987     11-4-1
3062     - -1987     4-1-21
3063     - -1987     20-1-6
3069     - -1988     6-1-21
3083     - -1988     15-1-8
                     4-3-1,
3084     - -1988     4-3-80,
                     4-3-98,
                     4-3-99
3088     - -1988     22-6-38
3097     - -1988     20-3-12
3101     - -1988     20-6-16
                     15-1-23,
                     15-1-25 -
                     15-1-27,
                     20-7-1 -
                     20-7-6,
3103     - -1988     20-7-13,
                     20-7-16,
                     20-7-23,
                     20-7-27,
                     20-7-28,
                     20-7-31
3104     - -1988     23-2-8
3109     - -1989     18-4-15
3130     - -1989     11-1-82
                     22-1-5,
3133     - -1989     22-2-15,
                     22-2-123
3134     - -1989     20-6-19,
                     20-6-57
3142     - -1989     13-10-15
3143     - -1989     22-3-15,
                     22-3-16
                     6-5-1 -
                     6-5-18,
                     6-5-32 -
                     6-5-37,
                     6-5-39,
                     6-5-44 -
                     6-5-47,
3148     - -1990     6-5-52,
                     6-5-53,
                     6-5-58 -
                     6-5-63,
                     6-5-68 -
                     6-5-72,
                     6-5-77 -
                     6-5-79
3150     - -1990     18-4-16,
                     23-2-13
3153     - -1990     21-1-37
3156     - -1990     21-1-56
3159     - -1990     6-1-5
                     15-1-24,
                     20-7-7,
                     20-7-8,
                     20-7-10 -
3161     - -1990     20-7-12,
                     20-7-15,
                     20-7-17 -
                     20-7-21,
                     20-7-29,
                     20-7-30
                     4-1-4,
                     4-1-16,
3162     - -1990     4-5-7,
                     4-8-6,
                     4-8-13,
                     4-8-14
3163     - -1990     20-7-9
3168     - -1990     20-7-32 -
                     20-7-34
3170     - -1990     22-2-11
3172     - -1990     5-1-28
3174     - -1990     20-7-35
                     18-1-3,
3175     - -1990     18-1-12,
                     18-1-26
3176     - -1990     19-1-8
                     2-1-5,
                     2-1-9,
                     2-1-18,
3184     - -1991     2-2-4,
                     2-5-5,
                     2-5-7,
                     2-7-1 -
                     2-7-6
3188     - -1991     20-7-14
3193     - -1991     14-2-1
3195     - -1991     23-1-20,
                     23-1-22
                     3-1-1,
                     3-1-2,
                     3-2-4 -
                     3-2-6,
3202     - -1991     3-3-1 -
                     3-3-3,
                     3-3-6,
                     20-6-26 -
                     20-6-30
3207     - -1992     6-4-1
3208     - -1992     4-7-1 -
                     4-7-3
3220     - -1992     20-3-2
3223     - -1992     4-3-147
3235     - -1992     11-1-11
3240     - -1992     2-1-11
3241     - -1992     13-5-3
                     18-1-7,
                     18-1-30,
                     18-2-9,
                     18-2-12,
                     18-2-13,
                     18-2-24,
                     18-2-25,
3248     - -1992     18-2-29,
                     18-3-3,
                     18-3-5,
                     18-3-7,
                     18-3-9,
                     18-4-3,
                     18-4-4,
                     18-4-7,
                     18-4-10
3252     - -1992     14-2-9
3254     - -1992     20-6-24
3257     - -1992     22-6-53,
                     22-6-54
3260     - -1992     21-1-50,
                     21-1-54
                     23-4-1,
3261     - -1992     23-4-2,
                     23-4-4 -
                     23-4-27
3267     - -1993     2-4-3 -
                     2-4-8
3270     - -1993     20-7-24
3282     - -1993     6-2-1,
                     6-2-2
                     22-3-22,
3292     - -1993     22-3-24 -
                     22-3-26
3293     - -1993     13-10-2
3294     - -1993     22-6-7,
                     22-6-13
3304     - -1993     18-2-1
3322     - -1993     22-6-27,
                     22-6-28
3339     - -1994     17-1-2
                     3-1-3,
3340     - -1994     3-2-1,
                     3-2-2
3341     - -1994     11-1-94
3342     - -1994     20-4-4
                     22-5-5 -
3343     - -1994     22-5-7,
                     22-5-9
                     6-5-19,
                     6-5-21,
                     6-5-22,
3352     - -1994     6-5-24 -
                     6-5-28,
                     6-5-30,
                     6-5-31
                     19-1-15,
                     19-1-18,
3355     - -1994     19-2-4,
                     19-3-4,
                     19-3-6,
                     19-3-7
3356     - -1994     6-5-23
3357     - -1994     22-6-5
3358     - -1994     13-2-3
                     22-6-8,
3363     - -1994     22-6-10 -
                     22-6-12,
                     22-6-14
                     20-7-22,
3371     - -1994     20-7-25,
                     20-7-26
                     6-2-19 -
                     6-2-21,
                     6-2-27 -
                     6-2-30,
                     6-2-34 -
                     6-2-40,
                     6-2-44 -
                     6-2-46,
                     6-2-50,
                     6-2-51,
                     6-2-53 -
                     6-2-55,
                     6-2-59 -
                     6-2-61,
                     6-2-65,
                     6-2-66,
                     6-2-71,
                     6-2-72,
                     6-2-101,
                     6-2-106,
                     6-2-107,
3378     - -1994     6-2-112,
                     6-2-117 -
                     6-2-119,
                     6-2-123 -
                     6-2-126,
                     6-2-130,
                     6-2-131,
                     6-2-135,
                     6-2-136,
                     6-2-139 -
                     6-2-143,
                     6-2-147,
                     6-2-148,
                     6-2-152,
                     6-2-153,
                     6-2-157,
                     6-2-158,
                     6-2-166,
                     6-2-170,
                     6-2-171,
                     16-1-1 -
                     16-1-3
3379     6-27-1994   6-1-40
3380     - -1994     22-2-110
3395     - -1994     23-2-2,
                     23-2-3
3396     - -1994     19-3-14
3408     - -1995     18-3-2
3409     - -1995     13-3-9
3410     - -1995     13-3-12
3421     - -1995     5-1-20
3426     - -1995     13-3-10,
                     13-3-11
3427     - -1995     3-2-15
3428     - -1995     22-8-2
3432     - -1995     20-3-18
3436     - -1995     3-3-4
                     20-6-51,
3437     - -1995     20-6-52,
                     20-6-58,
                     20-6-59
3439     - -1995     13-10-17
3440     - -1995     6-2-116
3442     - -1995     6-2-22
3444     - -1995     6-2-98 -
                     6-2-100
3445     - -1995     23-1-15
3446     - -1995     15-1-11 -
                     15-1-15
                     3-2-7,
3447     - -1995     3-2-8,
                     3-3-5
3449     - -1995     22-2-66
3451     - -1995     12-1-16
                     12-1-1,
3452     - -1995     12-1-8,
                     12-1-10 -
                     12-1-20
3453     - -1995     15-1-9
3458     - -1995     6-6-29
                     2-1-2.1, 2-1-11.1 - 2-1-13,
                     2-2-1,
                     2-2-2,
                     2-3-2,
3461     - -1995     2-3-4,
                     2-3-5,
                     2-3-9,
                     2-3-10,
                     2-3-12 -
                     2-3-14
3462     - -1995     11-1-66
3466     - -1995     22-2-65
3468     - -1995     22-6-6
3474     - -1995     6-2-41
                     19-1-3,
                     19-3-1 -
3482     - -1996     19-3-3,
                     19-3-11,
                     19-4-1
3486     - -1996     6-2-76 -
                     6-2-89
3488     - -1996     2-3-11
3489     - -1996     15-1-6
3490     - -1996     13-3-18
                     6-6-30,
                     22-1-13,
3499     - -1996     22-6-47 -
                     22-6-52,
                     22-6-55 -
                     22-6-57
3502     - -1996     13-10-1
                     4-1-13,
3503     - -1996     4-1-15,
                     4-2-2 -
                     4-2-4
3506     - -1996     4-1-24,
                     4-1-25
                     19-1-14.1,
3507     - -1996     19-1-16,
                     19-3-18
3510     - -1996     20-1-2 -
                     20-1-4
3511     - -1996     6-1-4
3518     - -1997     13-10-3.1
                     6-6-35,
3520     - -1997     20-6-56,
                     20-6-70 -
                     20-6-78
3522     - -1997     2-2-8,
                     2-5-8
3524     - -1997     22-6-2
3529     - -1997     6-6-33,
                     6-6-33.1
3532     - -1997     4-3-97,
                     4-3-145
                     4-1-7,
3534     - -1997     6-2-162,
                     6-2-165
3537     - -1997     22-6-40
3538     - -1997     22-6-42 -
                     22-6-44
3544     - -1997     6-1-17.1
3549     - -1997     22-3-3,
                     22-3-5
3556     - -1997     22-3-12
3562     - -1997     22-2-91,
                     22-2-92
3563     - -1997     23-2-5
                     18-1-9,
                     18-2-21 -
3566     - -1997     18-2-23,
                     18-2-26 -
                     18-2-28
                     2-3-1,
3567     - -1997     2-3-3,
                     6-6-1
3571     - -1998     11-1-18
3580     - -1998     2-4-1,
                     2-4-2
3587     - -1998     22-5-12
3588     - -1998     3-3-4.1
3593     - -1998     22-5-11
3601     - -1998     23-1-5
                     4-1-12,
3606     - -1999     4-1-17,
                     4-9-4
3608     - -1999     22-6-1
3609     - -1999     22-6-4
3610     - -1999     11-1-23
3611     - -1999     2-1-13.1,
                     2-5-6
3614     - -1999     6-6-10.3
3616     - -1999     6-1-12
3619     - -1999     6-5-38
3622     - -1999     13-1-3.1
3626     - -1999     6-5-29
                     22-1-2,
                     22-9-6,
3627     - -1999     22-9-8,
                     22-9-10,
                     22-9-14 -
                     22-9-16
3628     - -1999     22-2-112,
                     22-2-113
3629     - -1999     11-1-29
3636     - -1999     6-2-137,
                     6-2-172
                     25-1-2, 25-1-3,
                     25-1-1,
                     25-2-1 -
                     25-2-10,
                     25-2-12 -
                     25-2-30,
                     25-2-32 -
                     25-2-41,
                     25-2-43 -
                     25-2-79,
                     25-2-82 -
                     25-2-104,
                     25-2-106 -
                     25-2-142,
                     25-4-1 -
                     25-4-3,
                     25-4-5 -
                     25-4-8,
                     25-5-2 -
                     25-5-17,
                     25-6-1 -
                     25-6-10,
                     25-6-12 -
                     25-6-24,
                     25-7-1 -
                     25-7-63,
                     25-7-66 -
                     25-7-80,
                     25-8-1 -
                     25-8-7,
                     25-9-1 -
                     25-9-4,
                     25-9-7,
3639     - -2000     25-9-9 -
                     25-9-31,
                     25-10-1 -
                     25-10-8,
                     25-11-1 -
                     25-11-6,
                     25-12-1 -
                     25-12-15, 25-13-1 -
                     25-13-18,
                     25-14-1 -
                     25-14-5,
                     25-15-1 -
                     25-15-27,
                     25-16-1 -
                     25-16-8,
                     25-17-1 -
                     25-17-4,
                     25-18-1,
                     25-19-2,
                     25-19-4, 25-19-6,
                     25-19-12,
                     25-19-15,
                     25-19-16,
                     25-19-27-
                     25-19-45,
                     25-20-1 -
                     25-20-7,
                     25-20-9 -
                     25-20-14,
                     25-21-1,
                     25-21-2,
                     25-21-5,
                     25-21-7 -
                     25-21-9
3641     - -2000     13-6-1,
                     13-6-2
3642     - -2000     4-3-107
                     21-1-27,
3645     - -2000     21-1-67,
                     21-1-68
3664     - -2000     22-3-23
3668     - -2001     3-4-3
3669     - -2001     21-1-39
3670     - -2001     4-3-113
3680     - -2001     20-3-11
3681     - -2001     6-2-70
3685     - -2001     20-3-9
3689     - -2001     6-1-4
                     4-1-1,
                     4-1-4,
                     4-1-5,
3690     - -2001     4-1-9,
                     4-1-12,
                     4-1-13,
                     4-1-15 -
                     4-1-17
3691     - -2001     20-3-10,
                     20-3-14
3693     - -2001     21-1-52,
                     21-1-58
3706     - -2002     6-2-175,
                     6-2-176
3718     - -2002     6-5-20
3722     - -2002     4-3-66
3731     - -2002     15-1-9
                     6-6-15.1,
3739     - -2002     13-6-7,
                     15-1-28,
                     15-1-41
3751     - -2003     22-8-5
3754     - -2003     23-6-8
3755     - -2003     15-1-1
3757     - -2003     6-6-13
3770     - -2003     22-2-75
3771     - -2003     22-2-99
3772     - -2003     22-6-20
3776     - -2003     6-6-25
3789     - -2004     20-1-5
3791     - -2004     4-1-1.1
3792     - -2004     22-3-20,
                     22-3-21
                     4-1-12,
                     4-1-15,
3796     - -2004     4-1-20,
                     4-3-43,
                     4-3-44,
                     4-9-4
                     22-6-61,
3797     - -2004     22-6-62,
                     22-6-64 -
                     22-6-66
3799     - -2004     12-1-9
3801     - -2004     6-6-11
                     4-6-2,
                     4-6-7,
                     4-6-9 -
3805     - -2004     4-6-11,
                     4-6-13 -
                     4-6-22,
                     4-6-39
3808     - -2004     6-6-36
3824     - -2004     6-6-26,
                     6-6-34
3825     - -2005     16-1-4
3827     - -2005     21-1-51
3828     - -2005     25-7-64,
                     25-7-65
                     21-1-14,
3829     - -2005     21-1-24,
                     21-1-35
3831     - -2005     25-6-8.1
3835     - -2005     11-2-4,
                     11-2-5
3839     - -2005     6-2-111
3850     - -2005     4-2-34 -
                     4-2-36
3853     - -2005     6-6-7
3858     - -2005     21-1-34
3860     - -2005     15-1-36
3861     - -2005     21-1-25
3868     - -2005     25-2-31
3874     - -2005     13-3-4
3876     - -2005     19-3-12
3879     11-7-2005   23-2-11
3880     - -2005     6-6-10.4
3884     - -2005     12-1-3
3885     - -2005     22-6-67
3891     - -2005     21-1-57
                     6-6-2,
3894     - -2006     6-6-3,
                     6-6-8,
                     6-6-9
3898     - -2006     6-2-163
3915     - -2006     19-2-5
3916     - -2006     19-2-1
3924     - -2006     25-2-27.1
3926     - -2006     6-7-1
3930     - -2007     25-1-3.1
3931     - -2007     25-2-104.1,
                     25-2-105
3939     - -2007     25-19-9
                     25-2-42,
                     25-3-2,
                     25-3-16,
                     25-3-18,
3951     - -2007     25-3-20,
                     25-20-8,
                     25-21-3,
                     25-21-4,
                     25-21-6,
                     25-22-1
3959     - -2008     20-6-21,
                     20-6-22
3964     - -2008     6-6-15
3965     - -2008     25-2-55.1
3967     - -2008     11-1-24
                     3-1-6,
3968     - -2008     3-1-7,
                     3-1-13,
                     6-6-17
                     22-8-3,
3969     - -2008     22-8-4,
                     22-8-6
3971     - -2008     25-3-2,
                     25-12-16
                     2-4-1,
3972     - -2008     2-4-4.1,
                     2-4-8
                     11-1-76 - 11-1-81,
3976     - -2008     11-1-81.2 -
                     11-1-81.4
                     6-1-1,
3981     - -2008     6-1-2,
                     6-1-12,
                     6-1-22
                     25-3-2,
                     25-3-7,
3985     - -2009     25-3-13 -
                     25-3-16,
                     25-3-18,
                     25-3-23
3987     - -2009     20-6-22
3988     - -2009     13-4-1
3991     - -2009     6-6-18
3992     - -2009     25-2-81
3998     - -2009     6-2-129
4005     - -2009     6-6-11,
                     6-6-12
                     6-6-19,
4010     - -2009     6-6-20,
                     6-6-26
4013     - -2010     25-4-3,
                     25-6-5
4035     - -2010     6-6-2
4045     - -2011     11-1-24
                     3-4-1,
                     3-5-1 -
4048     - -2011     3-5-5,
                     6-6-17,
                     15-1-4,
                     15-1-10
4049     - -2011     6-6-13
                     6-6-15.1,
4055     - -2011     15-1-28,
                     15-1-32,
                     15-1-40
4056     - -2011     25-3-23
4059     - -2011     4-2-33
4063     - -2011     6-6-22 -
                     6-6-24
4068     - -2012     6-6-6
                     6-2-52,
4071     - -2012     6-2-95 -
                     6-2-97
                     25-2-80,
                     25-3-9,
                     25-3-11,
4072     - -2012     25-3-12,
                     25-3-19,
                     25-3-25,
                     25-4-4,
                     25-22-3
4074     - -2012     6-6-5
4113     - -2013     25-1-4
                     6-6-17 -
                     6-6-20,
                     6-6-22 -
4115     - -2013     6-6-24,
                     6-6-28,
                     6-6-30,
                     6-6-33.1,
                     6-6-35
4118     - -2014     25-1-4
4119     - -2014     25-1-4
4120     - -2014     23-1-14
4124     - -2014     6-6-15
                     6-6-35,
                     20-6-1,
                     20-6-15,
4129     - -2014     22-2-58,
                     22-2-66,
                     22-6-1,
                     25-6-25
                     25-3-4,
4137     - -2014     25-3-7,
                     25-3-12,
                     25-3-14
                     6-6-22 -
4140     - -2014     6-6-24,
                     6-6-26,
                     6-6-28
4143     - -2015     4-2-33
4144     - -2015     25-1-4
                     21-1-21,
4145     3-2-2015    21-1-27,
                     21-1-34
4146     - -         25-19-29, 25-19-51.1, 25-19-66.1
4148     - -         25-6-6
4149     6-6-2015    21-1-68
4150     - -2015     6-6-35
                     25-3-13,
4152     - -2015     25-5-2,
                     25-7-38
4154     - -2015     6-6-18,
                     11-2-4
                     4-3-57 -
                     4-3-61,
4157     - -2015     4-3-67,
                     4-3-69,
                     4-3-70
4161     - -2015     15-1-1
4162     - -2015     6-6-15
4164     - -2015     6-2-101,
                     6-2-116
4165     - -2015     25-1-4
4168     - -         25-1-4
4170     - -2015     6-2-100
4171     - -2015     22-2-83
4172     - -2015     20-6-20
                     25-23-2 -
4173     - -2015     25-23-8,
                     25-23-10,
                     25-23-11
                     6-6-23,
4174     - -2016     6-6-24,
                     6-6-26,
                     6-6-28
4175     - -2016     21-1-20
4178     - -2016     6-6-28
                     3-4-1,
4181     - -2016     3-4-2,
                     20-6-26
4184     - -2016     20-1-3
4185     - -2016     6-6-22
                     25-2-1 -
                     25-2-142,
4187     - -2016     25-3-13 -
                     25-3-16,
                     25-3-18
4188     - -2016     6-6-13
4191     - -2016     25-3-25
                     25-3-3,
4192     - -2016     25-3-11,
                     25-3-12
4193     - -2016     13-10-17
                     6-6-19,
4195     - -2016     6-6-22,
                     6-6-28,
                     19-3-12
                     25-3-13 -
4198     - -2016     25-3-16,
                     25-3-18
4199     - -2016     25-7-81 -
                     25-7-87
4200     - -2016     6-6-26
4201     - -2016     6-6-20,
                     6-6-28
4204     - -2017     6-6-15.1
4207     - -2017     4-1-2, 4-1-10 -
                     4-1-11
                     25-2-1 -
4208     - -2017     25-2-143,
                     25-3-23
4209     5-1-2017    6-2-94.2
                     6-6-18,
4210     5-15-2017   11-2-4,
                     11-2-6 -
                     11-2-11
                     6-6-19 -
4214     7-3-2017    6-6-24,
                     6-6-27,
                     6-6-28
                     5-1-13,
4215     7-3-2017    6-6-11,
                     6-6-12
4218     7-17-2017   4-2-33
4220     9-5-2017    25-1-4
4225     3-5-2018    24-4-1 -
                     24-4-6
4227     4-2-2018    6-6-34
4228     4-16-2018   22-2-114
4229     5-21-2018   6-6-15,
                     15-1-1
4230     6-4-2018    25-1-4
4231     6-18-2018   8-1-12
4233     9-17-2018   6-6-26
                     6-6-19 -
4234     9-17-2018   6-6-24,
                     6-6-28
4235     9-17-2018   6-6-27
4236     9-17-2018   25-1-4
4237     10-1-2018   6-6-25
4238     12-3-2018   25-6-1.6
                     25-2-13.4,
                     25-2-31.1,
4241     12-17-2018  25-2-31.2,
                     25-3-13 -
                     25-3-16,
                     25-3-18
4242     1-7-2019    25-1-4
4243     2-19-2019   22-2-99
4244     7-15-2019   6-6-25
                     11-5-1 -
                     11-5-7,
4245     9-3-2019    11-5-10 -
                     11-5-30,
                     11-5-8,
                     11-5-9
                     6-6-19 -
4247     9-16-2019   6-6-24,
                     6-6-28
4249     10-7-2019   25-1-4
                     5-1-13,
4250     10-21-2019  5-1-22,
                     6-6-11,
                     6-6-12
4251     1-6-2020    4-1-2, 4-1-10,
                     4-1-10.1
4252     1-6-2020    6-6-25
4254     9-8-2020    6-6-23,
                     6-6-24
                     4-1-19,
                     8-1-1,
                     8-1-5 -
                     8-1-12.2,
                     8-1-14,
                     8-1-29 -
                     8-1-31,
                     8-1-35,
                     8-1-36,
                     8-1-39,
                     8-1-41,
                     8-1-42,
                     8-1-47,
                     8-1-58,
4255     1-19-2021   8-2-1 -
                     8-2-3,
                     8-2-5 -
                     8-2-8,
                     8-2-10 -
                     8-2-12,
                     8-3-1 -
                     8-3-30,
                     23-2-1 -
                     23-2-14,
                     23-2-16 -
                     23-2-20,
                     23-2-22,
                     23-3-2 -
                     23-3-9
4256     1-19-2021   6-2-2,
                     6-2-35
4257     1-2-2021    25-1-4
                     4-3-36,
                     4-3-37,
4258     2-1-2021    4-3-62 -
                     4-3-65,
                     4-3-91
4259     6-21-2021   25-1-4
4260     6-21-2021   8-1-30 -
                     8-1-32
                     6-6-19,
4263     9-13-2021   6-6-20,
                     6-6-22 -
                     6-6-28
4264     10-18-2021  25-2-40
4265     11-1-2021   25-1-4
4266     11-15-2021  15-1-1
4267     11-15-2021  6-4-1
4268     11-15-2021  20-1-3
4270     1-3-2022    25-2-3.1,
                     25-3-19
4271     1-3-2022    4-1-10
4272     1-18-2022   25-3-2
4273     1-18-2022   Adopting Ordinance
4274     2-7-2022    25-1-4
4275     2-7-2022    25-1-4
4276     2-7-2022    25-22-7
4278     3-7-2022    11-4-11
4279     4-4-2022    25-1-4
4280     4-4-2022    25-22-1 -
                     25-22-11
4281     6-6-2022    25-1-4
4282     6-20-2022   25-1-4
4285     9-19-2022   4-1-2,
                     4-1-10
                     6-6-19,
4288     9-27-2022   6-6-20,
                     6-6-22 -
                     6-6-28
4289     10-3-2022   25-1-4
4290     10-3-2022   8-1-23
                     25-12-11 -
                     25-12-14,
4293     11-7-2022   25-15-27,
                     25-19-26 -
                     25-19-26
                     6-2-2,
4294     11-21-2022  6-2-15,
                     6-2-35
4296     12-19-2022  16-1-1
4297     1-17-2023   25-1-4
4298     1-17-2023   22-6-40
4300     1-17-2023   23-4-3
                     6-6-19,
                     6-6-20,
4301     2-21-2023   6-6-22 -
                     6-6-24,
                     6-6-28
4302     5-1-2023    25-3-12
4303     5-1-2023    25-3-25
                     23-1-27,
4307     9-18-2023   23-1-30,
                     23-2-10,
                     23-2-11
                     6-6-19,
                     6-6-20,
                     6-6-22 -
4310     9-25-2023   6-6-24,
                     6-6-28,
                     18-4-3,
                     23-2-2
4312     11-6-2023   24-3-7
4313     11-6-2023   25-5-2
4314     11-6-2023   6-6-24,
                     6-6-27
4316     11-20-2023  6-7-1
4317     12-4-2023   25-1-4
4319     1-2-2024    25-1-4
4322     3-4-2024    25-1-4
4323     3-4-2024    25-1-4
4324     3-4-2024    20-1-3
4325     3-18-2024   25-1-3.1
4327     4-15-2024   6-6-18
4328     4-29-2024   25-1-4
4329     5-6-2024    25-1-3.1
4330     5-6-2024    22-3-20,
                     22-3-21
                     6-6-13,
4331     5-6-2024    6-6-15,
                     6-6-15.1
                     6-6-29,
                     21-1-28,
4332     7-15-2024   21-1-65,
                     21-1-68,
                     25-17-3
4333     7-15-2024   6-6-10.1,
                     6-6-10.2
4335     8-5-2024    4-2-36
4336     9-3-2024    8-1-23
                     6-6-19,
                     6-6-20,
4337     9-3-2024    6-6-22 -
                     6-6-24,
                     6-6-28
 
 
