SHELBY, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2019-25, passed 8-13-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
   
10.18   Supplementation of municipal code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Village Code of
Shelby, Nebraska and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES,VILLAGE BOARD, or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the Village of Shelby.
      CODE,THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The code of ordinances of the
Village of Shelby as modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Polk County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Shelby,
Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   ANDorOR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
   copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17  LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified, or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.18  SUPPLEMENTATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE.
   (A)   When preparing a supplement to the municipal code, the codifier
(meaning the person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the
supplement) may make formal nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of
ordinances included in the supplement as necessary to embody them into a
unified code.
   (B)   For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make changes
in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this section”, and the like, as may be
appropriate, or to “§§ _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code);
      (5)   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to code sections
such as “§ _____” or “§§ _____ to ____” which are not filled in prior to
adoption of an ordinance;
      (6)   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical
errors, correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or
decapitalize words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted
usage or for consistency with other provisions of the code;
      (7)   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the code; and
      (8)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate
ordinance material into the code while preserving the original meaning of the
ordinance sections.
   (C)   In no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect
of ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the
code and not repealed by any ordinance.
(Ord. 97-9, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this village code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in
Chapter 91 of this code of this code of ordinances, the village may proceed by
a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 17-505
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
32.   APPOINTED OFFICIALS
      
33.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FISCAL MANAGEMENT
      
36.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Bond; form
   
30.02   Oath of office; village officials
   
30.03   Seal; official corporate
Meetings
   
30.15   Definitions
   
30.16   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
30.17   Closed sessions
   
30.18   Emergency meetings
   
30.19   Minutes
   
30.20   Votes
   
30.21   Notice to news media
   
30.22   Public participation
   
30.23   Order of business
   
30.24   Change in office
   
30.25   Reorganizational meeting
   
30.26   Regular meeting
   
30.27   Special meetings
Compensation
   
30.40   Municipal officials
   
30.41   Conflict of interest
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  BOND; FORM.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The village may pay the premium for the bond or
insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a minimum, an
aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees, and with
such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses, or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal, or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
(1996 Code, § 1-301)
§ 30.02  OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)  (1996 Code, § 1-302)
§ 30.03  SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
   The official corporate seal of the village shall be kept in the office of
the Village Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “Village of
Shelby, Nebraska, Seal”. The Village Clerk shall affix an impression of the
said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and all
other official papers issued by order of the Board of Trustees and
countersigned by the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-502)  (1996 Code, § 1-401)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of
any public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action of the public body.
(1996 Code, § 1-501)
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies created by the Constitution of
Nebraska, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)  (1996 Code, § 1-502)
§ 30.16  OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice of
the time and place of each meeting by a method designated by the public body
and recorded in its minutes. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of
the public body and to the public. The notice shall contain an agenda of
subjects known at the time of the publicized notice or a statement that the
agenda, which shall be kept continually current, is readily available for
public inspection at the office of the public body during normal business
hours. Agenda items shall be sufficiently descriptive to give the public
reasonable notice of the matters to be considered at the meeting. Except for
items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be altered later than 24
hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside
the corporate limits of the village. The public body shall have the right to
modify the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at such public
meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411) (1996 Code, § 1-503)
§ 30.17  CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410) (1996 Code, § 1-504)
§ 30.18  EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
30.22 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)  (1996 Code, § 1-505)
§ 30.19  MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the village may have an additional ten working days if the employee
responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or
emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)  (1996 Code, § 1-506)
§ 30.20  VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)  (1996 Code, § 1-507)
§ 30.21  NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the Secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)  (1996 Code, § 1-508)
§ 30.22  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
30.17, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video equipment,
or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow
citizens to speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation
at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body may
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting. Public bodies shall make available
at least one current copy of the Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room
at a location accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the
meeting, the public shall be informed about the location of the posted
information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)  (1996 Code, § 1-509)
§ 30.23  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk, and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
(1996 Code, § 1-510)
§ 30.24  CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet at the time and place of the regular
meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing
Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall surrender
their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to their successors in office all property, records,
papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected Trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk shall report to the Board the names of all
Trustees-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board shall
examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of the
village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Board shall elect a Chairperson
and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village ordinance. The
Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
(1996 Code, § 1-511)
§ 30.25  REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The newly elected Board shall convene at the regular place of meeting
at the first regular meeting of the Board in December in each election year
immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves
for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the meeting to
order.
   (B)   The Board shall then proceed to examine the credentials of its members
and other elective officers of the village to see that each has been duly and
properly elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as are
required. After ascertaining that all members and officers are duly qualified,
the Board shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled as
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall then nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices and said officers shall hold office until their successors
are duly appointed and qualified. He or she shall then proceed with the regular
order of business.
   (D)   It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the Board or of
its successors in office and of each officer hereafter elected to any office,
to qualify prior to the first regular meeting of the Board in December
following his or her election. Immediately upon the assembly of the newly
elected Board upon the first regular meeting of the Board in December following
the election, each officer elected at the regular municipal election shall take
possession of his or her office. Each appointive officer who is required to
give bond shall qualify by filing the required bond, approved by the Board of
Trustees, in the office of the Village Clerk within two weeks from the date of
his or her said appointment; provided, on said bond shall be endorsed the same
oath as required of a Village Trustee. Failure to qualify by elective or
appointive officers within the time and manner, provided in this section, shall
and does in itself create a vacancy in the office to which said person failing
to qualify shall have been elected or appointed.
(1996 Code, § 1-512)
§ 30.26  REGULAR MEETING.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall, by ordinance, fix the time and
place of holding its stated meetings and may be convened at any time by the
Chairperson. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of each month
at the hour of 6:00 p.m.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
   (B)   (1)   At the hour specified for a meeting, the Village Clerk shall
proceed to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present.
If a quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson.
      (2)   In the event that a quorum of the Board is not available for a
regularly scheduled meeting, the meeting date and time for that meeting shall
be rescheduled to allow for a quorum of the Board to be in attendance for the
purpose of briefing, discussion of public business, formation of tentative
policy, or the taking of any action.
   (C)   (1)   At all meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, a majority of
the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may
adjourn from day to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such
manner and under such penalties as prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-205)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
(1996 Code, § 1-513)  (Ord. 2013-10, passed 4-1-2013; Ord. 2015-10, passed 5-4-
2015)
§ 30.27  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, special meetings may also be called
by any three members of the Board of Trustees. The object of a special meeting
shall be submitted to the Village Clerk in writing. The call and object, as
well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the
Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the Clerk shall notify the
members of the Board of Trustees of the special meeting, stating the time and
its purpose.
(1996 Code, § 1-514)
COMPENSATION
§ 30.40  MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and, upon Village Board of Trustees approval,
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to §
30.41.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service, or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
32.02, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or
any other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one
or more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the salary was
increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
   (F)   Pursuant to the provisions of Neb. RS 17-209, as amended, the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees hereby direct the following compensation
schedule to be in effect for all officers and employees of the village,
beginning with hours earned October 1, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
      (1)   The salary and working hours of the Village Clerk shall be up to 40
hours per week at a rate of $13.49 per hour and current IRS rate for mileage on
village business, plus two weeks vacation and medical insurance.
      (2)   The salary of the Water Commissioner, Street, and Sewer Overseer
(Maintenance Supervisor) shall be $18.13 per hour, plus uniform service,
medical insurance and two weeks of vacation.
      (3)   The salary of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall be
$1,500 per year plus $60 for each special meeting attended and current IRS rate
for mileage on village business.
      (4)   The salary of the Vice Chairperson and other members of the Board
of Trustees shall be $1,000 per year plus $60 for each special meeting attended
and current IRS rate for mileage on village business.
      (5)   The salary of the manager of the swimming pool shall be up to
$12.50 per hour, assistant manager $7.20 per hour, lifeguard $6.55 per hour.
Appropriate adjustments as determined by the enacted changes in minimum wage
will apply so the position of lifeguard is compensated at an amount of at least
minimum wage. Additional per hour adjustments will be made as follows: $0.15
per year of service and $0.20 for WSI certification.
      (6)   The wages of the librarian shall be $11.39 per hour and 20 hours
paid leave and assistant librarian up to $6.89 per hour and 12 hours paid
leave.
      (7)   The wages of the person hauling the recycling trailer will be $25
per roundtrip.
      (8)   The wages/salary of persons hired as extra help will be at least
minimum wage.
(1996 Code, § 1-901)  (Ord. 96-7, passed 8-6-1996; Ord. 97-8, passed 7-1-1997;
Ord. 98-12, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 99-13, passed 8-3-1999; Ord. 04-16, passed 8-
3-2004; Ord. 05-16, passed 8-2-2005; Ord. 2008-04, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 30.41  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the Board of Trustees, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees, and shall be brought within one year
after the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the Board of Trustees has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the Board of Trustees and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the Board of Trustees
responsible for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his
or her interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the Board of Trustees declaring an interest in the
contract would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum
on the issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the Board of Trustees which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who has no business association with the business involved
in the contract, or will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract, shall not be deemed to have an interest within the
meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such Board of Trustees by a
financial institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this
section. The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s Board of Trustees, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (G)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the Board of
Trustees shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the Board of Trustees in which an officer of the body
has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C)
above. This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the
date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the Board of
Trustees;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any Board of Trustees
with a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the Board of Trustees shall
maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases
made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) above, the Board of Trustees
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
Board of Trustees may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (K)   The Board of Trustees may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)  (1996 Code, § 1-902)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 30.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 31:  ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Village Board
   
31.01   Chairperson; selection and duties
   
31.02   Organization
   
31.03   Powers and duties
   
31.04   Vacancy
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
31.15   Grant of power
   
31.16   Introduction
   
31.17   Resolutions and motions
   
31.18   Style
   
31.19   Title
   
31.20   Reading; passage
   
31.21   Publication or posting
   
31.22   Certificate of publication or posting
   
31.23   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
31.24   Amendments and revisions
 
   
31.99   Penalty
VILLAGE BOARD
§ 31.01  CHAIRPERSON; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   (1)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the
ordinances of the Board to be printed and published for the information of the
inhabitants and cause such ordinances to be carried into effect.
      (2)   In the absence of the Chairperson from any meeting of the Board,
the Board shall have power to appoint a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall
exercise and have the powers and perform the same duties as the regular
Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet on the first
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December thereafter, organize,
elect a Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, and appoint the officers required
by law.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
   (E)   The Chairperson shall be authorized and directed to proceed with the
formulation of any and all contracts, documents, or other memoranda between the
village and the Nebraska Department of Economic Development so as to effect
acceptance of the grant application.
(1996 Code, § 1-101)  (Res. 2018-35, passed 5-18-2018)
§ 31.02  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   (1)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested
in a Board of Trustees which shall consist of five members.
      (2)   At the first statewide general election held after the
incorporation of the village, two Trustees shall be elected to serve two years
and three Trustees shall be elected to serve four years. Thereafter, the Board
members shall be elected as provided in the Election Act.
      (3)   The terms shall begin on the first regular meeting of the Board in
December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) above and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in division (A) above, the term of each Board
member shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village, and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a nonpartisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. RS 32-602)  (1996 Code, § 1-102)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 31.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair, and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government, and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress, and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)  (1996 Code, § 1-103)
§ 31.04  VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, vacancies
in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees for the
balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy resulting
from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to the Board
at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the minutes of
such meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by
causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village or by posting in three public places in the village the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board shall, within four weeks after the
meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented or upon the death of
the incumbent, call a special meeting of the Board or place the issue of
filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at which time
the Chairperson shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to fill
the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The Board shall vote upon
such nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of such nominee, the vacancy
shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the
votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next
regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified registered
voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the Chairperson shall continue at such meeting to submit
the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Board shall
continue to vote upon such nominations until the vacancy is filled. All
Trustees present shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of
the Board who has been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the
same rights, including voting, as if such person were elected.
   (D)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in divisions (B) and (C) above,
call a special election to fill such vacancy.
   (E)   If vacancies exist in the offices of a majority of the members of the
Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special election to
fill such vacancies, except that the Board of Trustees of a village situated in
more than one county shall have power to fill by appointment any vacancy that
may occur in their number.
   (F)   No official who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
same Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572, 32-1308)  (1996 Code, § 1-104)  (Ord. 98-13,
passed 8-4-1998)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 31.15  GRANT OF POWER.
   The Board may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Nebraska, as may be
expedient for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the
village and its trade, commerce, and manufactories.
(Neb. RS 17-505)  (1996 Code, § 1-601)  (Ord. 97-11, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 31.16  INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the Board in one of the
following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board, read aloud the
substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village Clerk for
future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Board, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
(1996 Code, § 1-602)  (Ord. 97-12, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 31.17  RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
31.16 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
(1996 Code, § 1-603)
§ 31.18  STYLE.
   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Shelby, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)  (1996 Code, § 1-604)
§ 31.19  TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in the
title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)  (1996 Code, § 1-605)
§ 31.20  READING; PASSAGE.
   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three
different days unless three-fourths of the Board vote to suspend this
requirement, except that such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory. In case such requirement is
suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final
passage. Three-fourths of the Board may require a reading of any ordinance in
full before enactment under either procedure set out in this section. All
ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or payment of money
shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of a majority of
all members elected to the Board. On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or
ordinance, and every resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board,
the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw,
ordinance, or any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the
whole number of members elected to the Board shall be required. All
appointments of the officers by the Board shall be made viva voce; and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-614, 17-616)  (1996 Code, § 1-606)  (Ord. 97-13, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 31.21  PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In some newspaper published in the village or, if no paper is
published in the village, then by posting a written or printed copy in each of
three public places in the village; or
   (2)   In book or pamphlet form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)  (1996 Code, § 1-607)  (Ord. 97-14, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 31.22  CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and
in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the
ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)  (1996 Code, § 1-608)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 31.23  EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, an ordinance for the
government of the village which has been adopted by the Board without
submission to the voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 after
the passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the Board, and be entered of record on the
Village Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613, 19-3701)  (1996 Code, § 1-609)  (Ord. 97-15, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 31.24  AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)  (1996 Code, § 1-610)  (Ord. 97-16, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 32:  APPOINTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   Appointment; removal
   
32.02   Merger of offices
   
32.03   Village Clerk
   
32.04   Village Treasurer
   
32.05   Village Attorney
   
32.06   County Sheriff as law enforcement officer
   
32.07   Municipal Engineer
   
32.08   Overseer of Streets
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01  APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Board may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Overseer
of the Streets and Marshal.
   (B)   It shall also appoint a Board of Health consisting of four members:
the Chairperson of the Village Board, who shall be Chairperson, and three other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Board has appointed a
Village Marshal, the Village Marshal may be appointed to the Board and serve as
Secretary and quarantine officer.
   (C)   The Board shall also appoint such additional officials and employees
as it may determine the village needs.
   (D)   All such appointees shall hold office for one year, unless sooner
removed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees by and with the advice and
consent of the remainder of the Board of Trustees. If the village has a Village
Water Commissioner, the Village Water Commissioner may at any time, for
sufficient cause, be removed from office by a two-thirds vote of the Board of
Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208, 17-541)  (1996 Code, § 1-201)  (Ord. 97-10, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 32.02  MERGER OF OFFICES.
   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance combine and merge any elective or
appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of any such
offices or employments, except Trustee, with any other elective or appointive
office or employment so that one or more of such offices or employments or any
combination of duties of any such offices or employments may be held by the
same officer or employee at the same time, except that Trustees may perform,
and upon Board approval, receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work
subject to Neb. RS 49-14,103.01 to 49-14,103.06. The offices or employments so
merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and the effect of
the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of official
duties only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined. For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)  (1996 Code, § 1-202)
§ 32.03  VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the
proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives of the Nebraska
State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also
perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to Neb. RS 84-
1201 through 84-1220, provided the provisions of this division (C) shall not
apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution
books, or any other record classified as permanent by the State Records
Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto,
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she
shall also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or
in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney
by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(1996 Code, § 1-204)
§ 32.04  VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson with the
advice and consent of the Board may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
(Neb. RS 17-606)  (1996 Code, § 1-205)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
Neb. RS 17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141
shall be charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)  (1996 Code, §§ 1-206, 1-207)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer”, with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners, and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 32.05  VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises, and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
(1996 Code, § 1-208)
§ 32.06  COUNTY SHERIFF AS LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Polk County Sheriff shall direct the police work of the village
and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He or she shall
act as Health Inspector, except in the event the village appoints another
person to that office. He or she shall file the necessary complaints in cases
arising out of violations of village ordinances, and shall make all necessary
reports required by the village ordinances or the laws of the State of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 19-3801)
   (B)   (1)   Every village law enforcement officer shall have the power and
authority to enforce the laws of this state and the village or otherwise
perform the functions of that office anywhere within his or her primary
jurisdiction. Primary jurisdiction shall mean the geographic area within
territorial limits of the village.
      (2)   Any village law enforcement officer who is within this state, but
beyond the territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction, shall have
the power and authority to enforce the laws of this state or any legal
ordinance of any city or incorporated village or otherwise perform the
functions of his or her office, including the authority to arrest and detain
suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing the functions within the
territorial limits of his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
         (a)   Any village law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow such person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain such
person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
         (b)   Any village law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow such person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
such person and return such person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
         (c)   Any village law enforcement officer shall have such enforcement
and arrest and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local,
state, or federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance. A law
enforcement officer in need of assistance shall mean:
            1.   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
            2.   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
               a.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
               b.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage
to property unless immediately arrested; or
               c.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a
crime.
         (d)   If the village, under the provisions of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act, enters into a contract with any other village or county for
law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement
personnel may have such enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each
of the participating political subdivisions if provided for in the agreement.
Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the village shall provide liability
insurance coverage for its own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS
13-1802.
      (3)   If village law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the village in the event of
disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any
program of practice or training for such disaster, emergency, or civil defense
emergency when such program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska
Emergency Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel shall have the power and authority to enforce the laws of
this state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where
they are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office,
including the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws
or performing the functions within the territorial limits of their primary
jurisdiction. The village shall self-insure or contract for insurance against
any liability for personal injuries or property damage that may be incurred by
it or by its personnel as the result of any movement of its personnel outside
the limits of the village pursuant to this division (B)(3).
(Neb. RS 29-215, 81-829.65)  (1996 Code, § 1-209)  (Ord. 98-31, passed 8-4-
1998)
§ 32.07  MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
   The Village Engineer shall make all surveys, estimates, and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of any public utilities, and the
costs of labor and materials therefor. He or she shall accurately make all
plats, sections, and maps as may be necessary under the direction of the Board.
Upon request, he or she shall make estimates of the cost of labor and material
which may be done or furnished by contract with the village, and make all
surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary to be made for the establishment
of grades, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks,
power plant, public heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters and the
improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform
such other duties as the Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-405, 17-568.01, 17-919)  (1996 Code, § 1-210)
§ 32.08  OVERSEER OF STREETS.
   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Board of
Trustees, have general charge, direction, and control of all works on streets,
sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the village, and shall perform such other
duties as the Board may direct.
(Neb. RS 18-3301)  (1996 Code, § 1-211)
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to Overseer of Streets, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 33:  DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
33.01   Library Board
   
33.02   Planning Commission
   
33.03   Board of Adjustment
   
33.04   Board of Health
   
33.05   Cemetery Board
   
33.06   Housing Authority Board
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01  LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Library Board shall consist of five appointed members who shall be
residents of the village and who shall serve terms of years. The Board of
Trustees shall appoint the members of the Library Board by a majority vote. No
member of the Board of Trustees shall be a member of the Library Board. The
terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the number of
members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members shall be
appointed as the terms of those members expire. In case of any vacancy by
resignation, removal, or otherwise, the Board of Trustees shall fill the
vacancy for the unexpired term.
   (B)   No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any services
rendered as a member of the Library Board. The Board of Trustees may require
the members of the Library Board to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of
the Board of Trustees and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties.
   (C)   At the time of the Board’s first meeting in June of each year, the
Board shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairperson and
Secretary. No member of the Library Board shall serve in the capacity of both
the Chairperson and keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings, and to file the same with the Village Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
   (D)   A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of
Trustees may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson, or a majority of the members of the Board.
   (E)   The Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a librarian and
all other employees. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all
employees of the library including the librarian.
   (F)   The Library Board shall have general charge of the village library and
shall establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management,
operation, and use of the library. All actions of the Board shall be subject to
the review and supervision of the Board of Trustees. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the Board of Trustees may designate from time to time.
(Neb. RS 51-202)  (1996 Code, § 2-101)  (Ord. 98-28, passed 8-4-1998; Ord.
2010-04, passed 8-3-2010)
§ 33.02  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the village and shall be appointed by the Chairperson, by and
with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the Board of
Trustees. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over which
the village is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation. When there is a sufficient number of residents in the area over
which the village exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation,
one regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it
is determined by the Board of Trustees that a sufficient number of residents
reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. For purposes of this section, a sufficient number of
residents shall mean 200 residents. The term of each regular member shall be
three years, except that approximately one-third of the regular members of the
first Commission shall serve for terms of one year, one-third for terms of two
years, and one-third for terms of three years. All regular members shall hold
office until their successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public
hearing before the Board of Trustees, be removed by the Chairperson, with the
consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office, or other good and
sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson.
   (B)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
and shall hold no other village office except when appointed to serve on the
Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of the
Commission may be required, in the discretion of the Board of Trustees, to give
bond in a sum set by resolution of the Board of Trustees, and conditioned upon
the faithful performance of their duties. The Commission shall elect its
Chairperson and a Secretary from its members and create and fill such other of
its offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and the Secretary
shall be one year, and they shall be eligible for reelection. No member of the
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the Chairperson and Secretary of
the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and
correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file them with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
The Commission shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time out
of the General Fund. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts,
shall be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the Board of
Trustees; and no expenditures nor agreements for expenditures shall be valid in
excess of such amounts. A number of Commissioners equal to a majority of the
number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of any business. The Commission shall hold at least one
regular meeting in each calendar quarter, except the Board of Trustees may
require the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the
Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending
before the Commission. Special meetings may also be held upon the call of any
three members of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record. The Commission shall make and adopt plans for the physical
development of the village, including any areas outside its boundaries which,
in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the village, and
shall carry out the other duties and exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS
19-929. All actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Board of Trustees. The Commission shall make its
recommendations to the Board of Trustees so that they are received by the Board
of Trustees within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements,
building codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or
zoning. The Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may, from time to time,
designate.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, with the approval of a
majority vote of the elected members of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint
one alternate member to the Commission. The alternate member shall serve
without compensation and shall hold no other village office. The term of the
alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until
his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be
removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the
Chairperson with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the
Board of Trustees. The alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as
a voting and participating member of the Commission at any time when less than
the full number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
(Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-929)  (1996 Code, § 2-102)  (Ord. 98-29, passed 8-4-
1998)
§ 33.03  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (C) below, the Board
shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken
by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (G)
below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) above and (D) below,
the Board of Trustees may, except as set forth in division (C) below, provide
by ordinance that it shall constitute a Board of Adjustment, and in the
regulations and restrictions adopted pursuant to the authority of Neb. RS 19-
901 to 19-905 may provide that as such Board of Adjustment it may exercise only
the powers granted to boards of adjustment by division (G) below. As such Board
of Adjustment it shall adopt rules and procedures that are in harmony with
divisions (A) above and (D), (F), and (G) below and shall have the powers and
duties therein provided for the Board of Adjustment, and other parties shall
have all the rights and privileges therein provided for. The concurring vote of
two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees acting as a Board of
Adjustment shall decide any question upon which it is required to pass as such
Board.
(Neb. RS 19-911)
   (C)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
Board of Trustees, serve as the Zoning Board of Adjustment for the village. If
the village is located in more than one county, it shall be served by request
or otherwise only by the County Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county in
which the greatest area of the village is located, and the jurisdiction of such
County Zoning Board of Adjustment shall include all portions of the village and
its extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village at such time
as more than 200 persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at
least one member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the
corporate boundaries of the village but within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (E)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other village office except
for the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (F)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the village
affected by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be
taken within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by
filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not
be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (G)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the Board of Trustees, have
only the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the Board of Trustees or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 to 19-904.01 and division (D) above and this division (G) would result in
peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue
hardships upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal
relating to the property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the intent and purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (G), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (H)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the village, may present to the district court a petition duly
verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board. Upon the filing of such petition, a summons shall be issued and be
served upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition.
Return of service shall be made within four days after the issuance of the
summons. Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board of
Adjustment shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the
substantial averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the
Board with reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition.
The answer shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At
the expiration of the time for filing answer, the court shall proceed to hear
and determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon
according to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the court
that testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may
take evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and
report the same to the court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions
of law, which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the
determination of the court shall be made. The court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal
to the district court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed
from, but the court may, on application, on notice to the Board and on due
cause shown, grant a restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the
district court shall be prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the
state regulating appeals in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)  (1996 Code, § 2-103)
§ 33.04  BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health which shall
consist of four members. The members of the Board shall include the Chairperson
of the Board of Trustees, who shall serve as Chairperson, and three other
members, one member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Board of Trustees has
appointed a Village Marshal, the Village Marshal may be appointed to the Board
and serve as Secretary and quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall
serve, without compensation, a one-year term of office, unless reappointed and
unless removed by the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and
consent of the Trustees. The members of the Board shall reorganize at the first
meeting in December of each year. No member of the Board of Health shall hold
more than one Board of Health position.
   (B)   The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall
be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or
any two members of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full
force and effect of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the village.
The Board shall to enforce the rules and regulations and provide fines and
punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent
the occurrence of nuisances and enforce all laws of the State of Nebraska and
ordinances of the village relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation
which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall regularly
inspect such premises and businesses as the Board of Trustees may direct. All
members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may, from time to time,
designate.
(Neb. RS 17-208)  (1996 Code, § 2-104)  (Ord. 97-6, passed 6-3-1997; Ord. 97-
22, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 33.05  CEMETERY BOARD.
   The Chairperson shall appoint, with the consent of a majority of the Board
of Trustees, a Cemetery Board which shall consist of six members who are
residents of the village and who shall serve without compensation for a term of
three years. Two members shall be appointed each year and may be required in
the discretion of the Board of Trustees, to give a bond in a sum set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties. At the first meeting in June of each year, the
Board shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and
Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the full and correct minutes and records of
all meetings and file the same with the Village Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board
members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing business. The Board
shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may designate. Special
meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any three members of
the Board. The Board shall have the general care, management, and supervision
of the village cemetery with the power and authority to limit and regulate the
number of cemetery lots that may be owned by the same person; to prescribe
rules for enclosing, adorning, and erecting monuments and tombstones on
cemetery lots; and to prohibit any diverse or improper use thereof; provided,
no religious tests shall be made as to the ownership of lots, the burial
therein, and the ornamentation of graves. The Board shall pass rules and
regulations for the proper use of the cemetery and prescribe penalties and
fines for violations thereof. The Board shall use all revenue received from the
sale of lots, gifts, or by devise for the care, management, and administration
of the cemetery. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Board of Trustees and it shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such additional duties as the Board of Trustees may
designate. No member of the Board of Trustees shall serve as a member of the
Board while serving a term of office as a member of the Board of Trustees. No
member of the Cemetery Board shall hold more than one Cemetery Board office.
(Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403)  (1996 Code, § 2-105)
§ 33.06  HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The Chairperson, with the consent of a majority of the Board of
Trustees, shall appoint five persons who shall constitute the Housing Authority
and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One Commissioner shall be
appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a five- year term of office
or until his or her successor is duly appointed; provided, that all vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The Board of Trustees may appoint one
of its members to serve as one of the five members of such Housing Authority
for such term as the Board of Trustees may determine. No person shall serve as
a Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area of operation of that
Housing Authority. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any
Commissioner shall be filed with the Village Clerk and such certificate shall
be conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of such Commissioner. A
Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his or her services, but he or
she shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses,
incurred in discharge of his or her duties. A majority of Commissioners shall
constitute a quorum of the Authority for the purpose of conducting its
business, exercising its powers, and for all other purposes. Action may be
taken by the Authority upon the vote of the majority of the Commissioners
present unless in any case the bylaws of the Authority shall require a larger
number. The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from
among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an executive
director who shall serve as ex officio Secretary of the Authority. The
Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law
officer of the village, for such services as it may require. It may employ
technical experts and such other officers, agents, and employees as it may
require and shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations, and
terms of office. The Authority may delegate such other powers and duties to its
agents or employees as it may deem proper. During his or her tenure, and for
one year thereafter, no Commissioner, officer, or employee of the Village
Housing Authority shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect,
in any project or in any property included or planned to be included in any
project, or in any contract or proposed contract relating to any housing
project. If any such Commissioner, officer, or employee involuntarily acquires
any such interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such interest
prior to appointment or employment as commissioner, officer, or employee, he or
she shall immediately disclose his or her interest in writing to the Authority,
and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the Authority, and he
or she shall not participate in any action by the Authority relating to the
property or contract in which he or she has any such interest; provided, that
nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds
of the Authority issued in connection with any housing project, or to the
execution of agreements by banking institutions for deposit or handling of
funds in connection with a project or to act as trustee under any trust
indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are fixed or controlled
by a governmental agency. The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees may remove a
Commissioner for neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the manner
prescribed hereinafter. The Chairperson shall send a notice of removal to such
Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement containing the charges
against him or her. Unless within ten days from the receipt of such notice,
such Commissioner files with the Village Clerk a request for a hearing before
the Board of Trustees, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office.
If a request for a hearing is filed with the Municipal Clerk, the Board of
Trustees of the village shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall
have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the Board of Trustees
shall determine whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the
removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her
position.
   (B)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the Board of Trustees on all such information.
(1996 Code, § 2-106)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 2-201)
CHAPTER 34:  ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Election of officers; certification
   
34.03   Board of Trustees; terms; qualifications
   
34.04   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.05   Joint, general; notice
   
34.06   Special, joint
   
34.07   Filing fee
   
34.08   Caucus candidates
   
34.09   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.10   Certificate of election
   
34.11   Inability to assume office
   
34.12   Recall procedure
   
34.13   Petition candidates; procedure
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01  GENERALLY.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the village shall be held as provided
in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws
of the village.
(Neb. RS 32-404)  (1996 Code, § 1-701)
§ 34.02  ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   No later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk, the name of the village, the number of officers to be elected, the
length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and
County Clerk shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or
her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)  (1996 Code, § 1-702)
§ 34.03  BOARD OF TRUSTEES; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected from the
village at large unless the registered voters of the village have voted to
elect its Board members by wards.
   (B)   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected at the
statewide general election as provided in Neb. RS 17-202 and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in such section, the term of each Trustee shall
be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village, and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-202, 17-203, 32-532, 32-554)  (1996 Code, § 1-703)
§ 34.04  PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective village officers shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the village provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for purposes of the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination
and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than
60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(1996 Code, § 1-704)
§ 34.05  JOINT, GENERAL; NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(1996 Code, § 1-705)
§ 34.06  SPECIAL, JOINT.
   (A)   Any issue to be submitted to the registered voters at a special
election by the village shall be certified by the Village Clerk to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election. A special
election may be held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. No
special election to be conducted by the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall be held within 30 days prior to or 60 days after the statewide primary
election, and no special election to be conducted by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk shall be held within 30 days prior to or 60 days after the
statewide general election.
   (B)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
   (C)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of such issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
absentee ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including
the receiving and counting of the ballots on the issue. The election returns
shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots,
including absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and
in the same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the
vote by the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall certify the election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the
County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the
Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 32-559)  (1996 Code, § 1-706)  (Ord. 97-17, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 34.07  FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall
be paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for village
office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund
of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within ten days after the canvass of votes by the County Canvassing Board and
shall file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
      PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)  (1996 Code, § 1-707)
§ 34.08  CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The Chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk in writing of the candidates so nominated, not later
than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk shall then notify the
persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to take place not
later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated shall have his
or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten days after the
holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk a written
statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays the filing fee, if
any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
(1996 Code, § 1-708)
§ 34.09  REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)  (1996 Code, § 1-709)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.10  CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   The Election Commissioner, County Clerk, or Municipal Clerk shall, within 40
days after the election, prepare, sign, and deliver a certificate of election
to each person whom the County Canvassing Board has declared to have received
the highest vote for each village office.
(Neb. RS 32-558, 32-1033)  (1996 Code, § 1-710)
§ 34.11  INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   (A)   If the candidate who received the highest number of votes for a
nonpartisan office in a general election is ineligible, disqualified, deceased,
or for any other reason unable to assume the office for which he or she was a
candidate and the registered voters had reasonable notice of such disability at
the time of the election, the candidate who received the next highest number of
votes to the candidates who would normally receive certificates of election
shall be declared elected and shall be entitled to a certificate of election if
he or she received not less than 35% of the total number of votes cast for the
office in the election and the number of persons to be elected for the office
is not greater than two and not less than 10% when the number of persons to be
nominated for the office is greater than two. If the candidate who received the
next highest number of votes received less than the required percentage, if no
other person was a candidate for the office, or if the registered voters did
not have reasonable notice at the time of the election of the disability of the
candidate who received the highest number of votes to merit a certificate of
election, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term, and the vacancy may be filled as prescribed by law
for such office.
   (B)   The determination of whether the registered voters had reasonable
notice for purposes of this section shall be made by the appropriate filing
officer under Neb. RS 32-607. The decision of the filing officer may be
appealed to the district court.
(1996 Code, § 1-711)
§ 34.12  RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any or all of the elected officials of the village may be removed from
office by recall pursuant to Neb. RS 32-1301 to 32-1309.
   (B)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of the Election
Act. The petition papers shall be procured from the Village Clerk. Each
petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1304. Prior to
the issuance of such petition papers, an affidavit shall be signed and filed
with the Village Clerk by at least one registered voter. Such voter or voters
shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators of the recall
petition. The affidavit shall state the name and office of the official sought
to be removed and shall request that the Village Clerk issue initial petition
papers to the principal circulator for circulation. The Village Clerk shall
notify the principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures
must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
   (C)   The Village Clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The Village
Clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the Village Clerk may distribute such petitions to registered voters
residing in the village who may act as circulators of such petitions.
   (D)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of the Election
Act. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter and qualified
by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in question on the date
of the issuance of the initial petition papers.
   (E)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of the
Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election.
   (F)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one instrument,
all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature verification
with the Village Clerk within 30 days after the Village Clerk issues the
initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators. Within 15
days after the filing of the petition, the Village Clerk shall ascertain
whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number of registered
voters. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing of the petition
papers. No signatures may be removed unless the Village Clerk receives an
affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be removed
before the petitions are filed with the Village Clerk for signature
verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the Village Clerk
shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
Village Clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
   (G)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the Village Clerk
shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the Board of Trustees
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. If the official does not resign
within five days after receiving the notice, the Board of Trustees shall order
an election to be held not less than 30 nor more than 45 days after the
expiration of the five-day period, except that if any other election is to be
held in the village within 90 days of the expiration of the five-day period,
the Board of Trustees shall provide for the holding of the removal election on
the same day. After the Board of Trustees sets the date for the recall
election, the recall election shall be held regardless of whether the official
whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is held.
   (H)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against the
removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a tie,
the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term but
may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (J) below. If
a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the removal of the
official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any technical
defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless a recount
is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall result in a
vacancy in the office which shall filled as otherwise provided in this code and
state law. If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the Village Clerk that he or she does not want a recount. If there are
vacancies in the offices of a majority or more of the members of the Board of
Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members, a special election to
fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously as possible by the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
   (I)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of another member of the Board
of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   (J)   No recall petition shall be filed against an elected official within
12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or her from office
or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of office or within
six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the office.
(Neb. RS 32-1301 through 32-1309)  (1996 Code, § 1-712)  (Ord. 98-15, passed 8-
4-1998; Ord. 99-12, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 34.13  PETITION CANDIDATES; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot for a
partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and Neb. RS
32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under state law and the candidate files for the office by petition as
prescribed in this section.
   (B)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate upon the partisan ballot for the general election shall be
at least 20% of the total vote for Governor or President of the United States
at the immediately preceding general election within the village, not to exceed
2,000.
   (C)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. Petitions shall be signed by registered voters
residing in the village and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same
manner as provided for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition
signers and circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and
32-630. No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing payment of the required filing fee. The petitions
shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-616 through 32-618)  (Ord. 98-14, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 34.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 35:  FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Expenditures
   
35.02   Contract and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.03   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.04   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.05   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.06   Special assessments fund
   
35.07   Sinking funds
   
35.08   Deposit of funds
   
35.09   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.10   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.11   Bond issues
   
35.12   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.13   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Budget
   
35.25   Fiscal year
   
35.26   Proposed budget statement; contents; filing
   
35.27   Budget hearing
   
35.28   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
35.29   Budget procedure
   
35.30   Appropriations
Tax Levies
   
35.45   All purpose levy; allocation; abandonment
   
35.46   Extraordinary levy
   
35.47   All purpose levy; allocation
   
35.48   All purpose levy; abandonment
   
35.49   Property tax levy; authority to set
   
35.50   Property tax levy; maximum authority to exceed
   
35.51   Property tax; certification of amount
   
35.52   Motor vehicle tax
   
35.53   Franchise tax on natural gas companies
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01  EXPENDITURES.
   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue, or draw any
order or warrant on the Village Treasurer for money, unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of which
such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the provisions of
§
35.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)  (1996 Code, § 1-813)
§ 35.02  CONTRACT AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the
cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $20,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of $20,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Village Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the Board
of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $20,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of such
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   Twenty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Forty thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   Eighty thousand dollars  or less and the village electric utility
has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village and, if there is no legal
newspaper published in or of general circulation in the village, then in some
newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the village
is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general circulation published
in the county in which the village is located, then in a newspaper, designated
by the County Board, having a general circulation within the county where bids
are required, and if no newspaper is published in the village or county, or if
no newspaper has general circulation in the county, then by posting a written
or printed copy thereof in each of three public places in the village at least
seven days prior to the bid closing. In case of a public emergency resulting
from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow,
war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for
immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of, or serious injury or
damage to, life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for
bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when
adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the Board of Trustees
may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may
thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the
manufacturer.
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees
when:
      (1)   Materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and from the
same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been obtained
pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 to 81-162; or
      (2)   The contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503.
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the Federal General Services Administration or the material
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02, 18-1756)  (1996 Code, § 1-814)  (Ord. 98-26,
passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.03  ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
village fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report
made by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of
the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a
written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may
request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of Neb.
RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS 84-304
and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise which
substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have that
phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other functions of
the village. The result of that audit shall appear separately in the annual
audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit shall be on a
cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)  (1996 Code, § 1-815)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.04  CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)  (1996 Code, § 1-816)
§ 35.05  ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the Board of Trustees, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the village, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the Board of Trustees or not, unless an
appropriation shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except
as otherwise expressly provided in this division (A).
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (B)   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)  (1996 Code, § 1-817)
§ 35.06  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for any
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)  (1996 Code, § 1-818)
§ 35.07  SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or
more of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. The Title to any money
or property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its
successors in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses
of the sinking fund or funds; provided. In the event of a donation of real
estate, the Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real
estate donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions
of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums, or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical clinic building, together
with furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default
in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten
years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. If no legal
newspaper is published in the county, such notice shall be published in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the village is located.
No such sinking fund shall be established unless the same has been authorized
by a majority or more of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the
proposition. If less than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment
of the sinking fund, the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax
shall be levied therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be
established in connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall
immediately be repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the
manner prescribed in this division (C), the Board of Trustees and its
successors in office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such
resolution of submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election
provided for under this section shall be conducted as provided under the
Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in §
35.10. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)  (1996 Code, § 1-819)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 35.08  DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, at its first meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate some one or more banks or capital stock financial institutions of
approved and responsible standing in which the Village Treasurer shall keep at
all times, subject to payment on his or her demand, all money held by him or
her as Village Treasurer. If there is one or more banks or capital stock
financial institutions located in the village which apply for the privilege of
keeping such money and give bond or give security for the repayment of deposits
as provided in this section, such banks or capital stock financial institutions
shall be selected as such depositories. The Village Treasurer shall not give a
preference to any one or more of them in the money he or she may so deposit.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks or capital
stock financial institutions:
         (a)   A bond in such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit
at any time less the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation; or
         (b)   In lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds
Deposit Security Act to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall approve such bond or giving of
security. The Village Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved. The fact that a stockholder, director, or other officer of such bank
or capital stock financial institution is also serving as a member of the Board
of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall not disqualify such
bank or capital stock financial institution from acting as a depository for
such municipal funds.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks or capital stock
financial institutions through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall
be deemed and construed to be a surety bond to the extent that the deposits are
insured by such corporation. For deposits so insured, no other surety bond or
other security shall be required. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply
to deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
   (D)   The Village Treasurer may deposit the funds received and held by him
or her, by virtue of such office, with a cooperative credit association
situated within the boundaries of the county, or a county adjoining thereto,
where the village is situated, if the village is the depositor, as well as in a
commercial state or national bank if the cooperative credit association
performs all the conditions precedent required by the laws of this state of
commercial state and national banks to qualify them to receive deposits of such
public funds. It shall not be necessary for the village, in making such a
deposit of public funds, to purchase shares in such cooperative credit
association or become a member thereof, and such a cooperative credit
association is hereby authorized and empowered to receive such money under such
conditions.
(Neb. RS 17-607, 21-1316.01, 77-2362 through 77-2364, 77-2386 through 77-2397) 
(1996 Code, § 1-820)  (Ord. 98-24, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.09  CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank or capital stock financial institution in the State of
Nebraska to the extent that such certificates of deposit or time deposits are
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in
excess of the amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the
excess deposit shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the manner
provided in this section. The provisions of Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to
deposits in capital stock financial institutions.
   (B)   For the security of the fund so deposited, the Village Treasurer shall
require each depository to give bond for the safekeeping and payment of such
deposits and the accretions thereof, which bond shall run to the village and be
approved by the Chairperson. The bond shall be conditioned that such a
depository shall, at the end of every quarter, render to the Treasurer a
statement in duplicate, showing the several daily balances the amount of money
of the village held by it during the quarter, the amount of the accretion
thereto, and how credited. The bond shall also be conditioned that the
depository shall generally do and perform whatever may be required by the
provisions of this section and all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof and shall faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in the depository. The bond shall be as nearly as
practicable in the form provided in Neb. RS 77-2304. No person in any way
connected with any depository as an officer or stockholder shall be accepted as
a surety on any bond given by the depository of which he or she is an officer
or stockholder. The bond shall be deposited with the Village Clerk.
   (C)   In lieu of the bond required by division (B) above, any bank or
capital stock financial institution making application to become a depository
may give security as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act to the
Village Clerk. The penal sum of such bond shall be equal to or greater than the
amount of the deposit in excess of that portion of such deposit insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall not have on deposit in any bank or capital stock
financial institution at any time more than the amount insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation plus the maximum amount of the bond given by the
bank or capital stock financial institution if the bank or capital stock
financial institution gives a surety bond, nor in any bank or capital stock
financial institution giving a personal bond, more than the amount insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation plus one-half of the amount of the
bond of such bank or capital stock financial institution, and the amount so on
deposit any time with any such bank or capital stock financial institution
shall not in either case exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation plus the paid-up capital stock and surplus of such bank
or capital stock financial institution. The Treasurer shall not be liable for
any loss sustained by reason of the failure of any such bonded depository whose
bond has been duly approved by the Chairperson as provided in division (B)
above or which has, in lieu of a surety bond, given security as provided in
division (C) above.
(Neb. RS 17-720, 16-714 through 16-716)  (Ord. 98-25, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.10  INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to
invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
village, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of
the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the 13 banks
for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in
interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The interest on
such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or
warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates, or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds, or money
borrowed, and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there
be any surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the
payment of public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into
the General Fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may,
if the Board, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the
United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or the
funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the Nebraska Capital Expansion Act and the
Nebraska State Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. The State Investment Officer shall upon request furnish
a copy of current authorized investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment
Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)  (1996 Code, § 1-821)
§ 35.11  BOND ISSUES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state
law, issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be
permitted by state law.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
(1996 Code, § 1-822)
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.12  DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to Neb. RS 45-601 through 45-622, within or without this state, for
the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, DEBT shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)  (1996 Code, § 1-824)
§ 35.13  COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall collect the special assessments which it levies and
perform all other necessary functions related thereto including foreclosure.
Notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or otherwise delivered
to the last known address of the person against whom such special assessments
are assessed or to the lending institution or other party responsible for
paying such special assessments. Failure to receive such notice shall not
relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay such special assessments and any
interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (B)   The village shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)  (1996 Code, § 1-825)  (Ord. 97-20, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 35.14  CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may authorize village officials to accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards as a method of cash payment of any tax,
levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license, fee, or
assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as provided
by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card shall be
collected by the village official.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards,
or debit cards as a means of cash payment to any facility it operates in a
proprietary capacity and may adjust the price for services to reflect the
handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The village official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing such service.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees may choose to accept the types of credit cards,
charge cards, or debit cards accepted by and the services provided to the state
pursuant to the contract entered into by the state with one or more credit
card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-party merchant banks for
services on behalf of the state and those political subdivisions that choose to
participate in the state contract. The Board of Trustees may choose not to
participate in the state contract and may choose types of credit cards, charge
cards, and debit cards and may negotiate and contract independently or
collectively as a governmental entity with one or more financial institutions,
vending service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies,
or third-party merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the Board of Trustees shall be authorized but not required to impose a
surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or
charge card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the village. The surcharge or convenience fee
shall be applied only when allowed by the operating rules and regulations of
the credit card or charge card involved or when authorized in writing by the
credit card or charge card company involved. When a person elects to make a
payment to the village by credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or
convenience fee is imposed, the payment of such surcharge or convenience fee
shall be deemed voluntary by such person and shall be in no case refundable.
(Neb. RS 13-609)  (Ord. 98-27, passed 8-4-1998)
BUDGET
§ 35.25  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village for the purposes of taxation and
appropriations shall begin on October 1 of each year.
(Neb. RS 17-701)  (1996 Code, § 1-801)
§ 35.26  PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; FILING.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall prepare in writing and file with the
Village Clerk, not later than August 1 of each year on forms prescribed and
furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts, a proposed budget statement
containing the following information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediate two prior fiscal years, the revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue received from
personal and real property taxation, allocated to each of the several funds and
separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund: the unencumbered
cash balance of such fund at the beginning and end of the year; the amount
received by taxation of personal and real property allocated to each fund; and
the amount of actual expenditure for each fund;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from all
sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to each of the several funds
and separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund: the actual
unencumbered cash balance available for such fund at the beginning of the year;
the amount received from personal and real property taxation allocated to each
fund; and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable. Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each such fund
for each fiscal year and shall note whether or not such reserve is encumbered.
Such cash reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of
prior years. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget adopted
for such fund exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue to be
received from taxation of personal and real property, separately stated as to
each such source, to be allocated to each of the several funds, and for each
fund: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balances, whichever is
applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year; the amounts proposed
to be expended during the year; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual
experience of prior years, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total
budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued by the Board of Trustees; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a separate total for each fund, including each proprietary function
fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement prepared pursuant to
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total of all funds
maintained by the Board of Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement if a separate proprietary budget statement has been prepared
for such proprietary functions pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function
Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance of each fund
required to be included in the budget statement by this section shall include
deposits and investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County
Treasurer for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources, including
motor vehicle taxes, other than taxation of personal and real property shall
equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount shall be shown on
the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this section. The amount to be
raised from taxation of personal and real property, as determined above, plus
the estimated revenue from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and
the unencumbered balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the
necessary required cash reserve, for the ensuing year.
(Neb. RS 13-504, 13-505)  (1996 Code, § 1-802)  (Ord. 97-18, passed 8-5-1997;
Ord. 98-16, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.27  BUDGET HEARING.
   (A)   After the filing of the proposed budget statement with the Village
Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall each year conduct a public hearing on the
proposed budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the hearing,
together with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village or by direct mailing of the notice to each
resident within the village.
   (B)   (1)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be
adopted, or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept
of such hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property
taxation shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget
statement is adopted, or is amended and adopted as amended.
      (2)   The certification of the amount to be received from personal and
real property taxation shall specify separately:
         (a)   The amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the Board of Trustees; and
         (b)   The amount to be received for all other purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be
published within 20 days after its adoption in the manner provided in this
section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items changed and
the reasons for such changes.
   (D)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-506, 13-507)  (1996 Code, § 1-803)  (Ord. 98-17, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.28  ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board on or before September 20 of each year and
file with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the adopted budget
statement, together with the amount of the tax required to fund the adopted
budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued by the Board of Trustees; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year and for the
amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated litigation which
involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or can be withheld or
escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section, anticipated litigation
shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who
or which filed a similar action for the preceding year which is still pending.
Except for such allowances, the Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount
of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than the amount determined in the
proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may designate one of its members to perform any
duty or responsibility required of such body by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)  (1996 Code, § 1-804)  (Ord. 97-19, passed 8-5-1997; Ord. 98-
18, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.29  BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
(1996 Code, § 1-805)
§ 35.30  APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the
Nebraska Budget Act, to be termed, “The Annual Appropriation Bill”, in which
the Board may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to
defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)  (1996 Code, § 1-806)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.45  ALL PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees has decided to certify to the County Clerk for
collection one all purpose levy required to be raised by taxation for all
municipal purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific
purposes added together. Subject to the limits in Neb. RS 77-3442, the all
purpose levy shall not exceed the annual levy specified in Neb. RS 19-1309 to
be levied upon the taxable valuation of all taxable property in the village.
   (B)   (1)   The amount of the all purpose levy shall be certified as a
single amount for General Fund purposes.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall allocate the amount raised by the all
purpose levy to the several departments of the village in its annual budget and
appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as the Board of Trustees
deems wisest and best.
   (C)   The village shall be bound by its election to follow the all purpose
levy method during the ensuing fiscal year but may abandon such method in
succeeding fiscal years.
   (D)   Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to the all
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309 through 19-1312)  (1996 Code, § 1-807)  (Ord. 98-22, passed 8-
4-1998)
§ 35.46  EXTRAORDINARY LEVY.
   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code to the
contrary, for any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all purpose levy required to be raised by
taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies
for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.50, the all purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the village.
Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to such all
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)  (1996 Code, § 1-808)
§ 35.47  ALL PURPOSE LEVY; ALLOCATION.
   If the method provided in §
35.46 is followed in village financing, the village shall allocate the amount
so raised to the several departments of the village in its annual budget and
appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as the Board of Trustees
deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)  (1996 Code, § 1-810)
§ 35.48  ALL PURPOSE LEVY; ABANDONMENT.
   If the village elects to follow the method provided in §
35.46, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)  (1996 Code, § 1-811)
§ 35.49  PROPERTY TAX LEVY; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement and
within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with the
levying board on or before October 14 of each year and file with the Auditor of
Public Accounts a certified copy of any resolution passed setting a tax levy
which shall not exceed the maximum levy prescribed by state law and a statement
reconciling the levy set by the Board of Trustees with the adopted budget
statement filed as otherwise required by law. The levy shall be set to fund
property tax requirements in the adopted budget to four to eight places to the
right of the decimal point. The Board of Trustees shall use the final adjusted
values as provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the
current year in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may
designate one of its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of
such body by this division (A).
   (B)   The property tax request for the prior year shall be the property tax
request for the current year for purposes of the levy set by the County Board
of Equalization in Neb. RS 77-1601 unless the Board of Trustees passes by a
majority vote a resolution or ordinance setting the tax request at a different
amount. Such resolution or ordinance shall only be passed after a special
public hearing called for such purpose is held and after notice is published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the village at least five
days prior to the hearing. The hearing notice shall contain the following
information: the dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request; the property tax rate
that would be necessary to fund last year’s tax request if applied to the
current year’s valuation; and the proposed dollar amount of the tax request for
the current year and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that
tax request. Any resolution setting a tax request under this division (B) shall
be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk prior to October 14 of the year
for which the tax request is to apply. Any tax levy which is not in compliance
with this division (B) and Neb. RS 77-1601 shall be construed as an
unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 13-508, 77-1601.02)  (1996 Code, § 1-826)  (Ord. 97-21, passed 8-5-
1997; Ord. 98-21, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.50  PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A) except as provided in divisions (C) and (D) below. The
village may levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of
property subject to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable
valuation to provide financing for the village’s share of revenue required
under an agreement or agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal
Cooperation Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums
to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-
501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments obtained against the village which
require or obligate the village to pay such judgment, to the extent such
judgment is not paid by liability insurance coverage of the village, for
preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, and for
bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on property
are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A). The
limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under divisions (C) or (D) below.
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act and community redevelopment authorities established
under the Community Development Law may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the village and are counted in the
village’s levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, and for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property. The Board of
Trustees shall review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the
political subdivisions subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may
approve all or a portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request
that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated
by the village may be exceeded as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444. On or before
August 1, all political subdivisions subject to municipal levy authority under
this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for levy allocation to the
Board of Trustees. The preliminary request of the political subdivision shall
be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of members present of
the political subdivision’s Board of Trustees. The failure of a political
subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude such political
subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to exceed the
final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall:
         (a)   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
         (b)   Forward a copy of such resolution to the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees of each of its political subdivisions.
      (3)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1 except
by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the Board of Trustees of
the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
no later than 30 days prior to the date of the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be no later than 20 days prior to the election. The County Clerk
or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as
called for in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after
receipt of the resolution or petition. The election shall be held pursuant to
the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as
provided in Neb. RS 32-628 to 32-631. Any excess levy authority approved under
this division (C) shall terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board
of Trustees to terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end
of the fourth fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded
the limit, or as provided in division (E) below, whichever is earliest. The
Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution calling for an election
pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. There shall be no
limit on the number of elections held pursuant to this division (C) which are
initiated by petition. The ballot question may include any terms and conditions
set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the language
specified in Neb. RS 77-3444. If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot
question are in favor of such tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in
excess of the limits in division (A) above, but such tax shall not exceed the
amount stated in the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the
ballot question are opposed to such tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose
such tax. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner may set a uniform date for
a special election to be held before October 10, 1998, to submit the issue of
exceeding the limits provided in Neb. RS 77-3442 or the final levy allocation
as provided in Neb. RS 77-3443 to the voters of political subdivisions in the
county seeking additional levy authority. The village may individually or in
conjunction with one or more other political subdivisions conduct a special
election on a date different from that set by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner, except that the Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution calling
for a special election for this purpose and deliver a copy of the resolution to
the County Clerk or Election Commissioner no later than 30 days prior to the
date of the election.
   (D)   In lieu of the election procedures in division (A) above, the village
may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a period
of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after notice
is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at least 20
days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters residing in
the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action to exceed
the limits. If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote
in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that action shall be
forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10 and the County Board shall
authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
   (E)   (1)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
         (b)   Upon request of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either such excess levy authority will be rescinded or such excess levy
authority will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the
amount and duration of such modification shall be stated. The modification
shall not have a duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election
Commissioner shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for
in the resolution or petition which is at least 30 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be no later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3442 through 77-3444)  (Ord. 98-20, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.51  PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the village
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided.
Subject to Neb. RS 77-3442, the maximum amount of tax which may be so
certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in excess of
the amounts specified in Neb. RS 17-702.
(Neb. RS 17-702)  (1996 Code, § 1-812)  (Ord. 98-19, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 35.52  MOTOR VEHICLE TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the Board of
Trustees shall have power to require any individual whose primary residence or
person who owns a place of business which is within the limits of the village
and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such limits to pay an annual
motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such fee upon the change of
ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be provided for under this
section shall be used exclusively for constructing, repairing, maintaining, or
improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or parts thereof or for the
amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at
which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the County
Treasurer to the Road Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)  (1996 Code, § 1-823)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 35.53  FRANCHISE TAX ON NATURAL GAS COMPANIES.
   (A)   The village hereby establishes a franchise tax on every natural gas
company and every other person, firm, or corporation, their successors and
assigns, owning, operating, controlling, leasing, or managing a natural gas
plant or system and/or generating, manufacturing, selling, distributing, or
transporting natural gas (hereinafter referred to, collectively, as “energy
providers”, each individually, as “energy provider”). Energy providers shall
collect from their customers located within the corporate limits of the village
and pay to the village an amount equal to 3% of gross receipts energy providers
derive from the sale, distribution, or transportation of natural gas delivered
within the present or future limits of the village. GROSS RECEIPTS as used
herein are revenues received from the sale, distribution, or transportation of
natural gas, after adjustment for the net write-off of uncollectible accounts
and corrections of bills theretofore rendered.
   (B)   (1)   The amount paid by energy providers shall be in lieu of, and
energy providers shall be exempt from, all other fees, charges, taxes, or
assessments which the village may impose for the privilege of doing business
within the village, including, without limitation, excise taxes, occupation
taxes, licensing fees, or right-of-way permit fees, and in the event the
village imposes any such fees, charge, tax or assessment, the payment to be
made by energy providers in accordance with this section shall be reduced in an
amount equal to any such fee, charge, tax, or assessment imposed upon the
energy providers.
      (2)   Ad valorem property taxes imposed generally upon all real and
personal property within the village shall not be deemed to affect energy
providers’ obligations under this section.
   (C)   (1)   Energy providers shall report and pay any amount payable under
this section on an annual basis. Such payment shall be made no more than 30
days following the close of the period for which payment is due.
      (2)   Initial and final payments shall be prorated for the portions of
the periods at the beginning and end of any franchise granted by the village to
an energy provider.
   (D)   Energy providers shall list the franchise tax collected from customers
as a separate item on bills for utility service issued to their customers. If
at any time the Nebraska Public Service Commission or other authority having
proper jurisdiction prohibits such recovery, energy providers will no longer be
obligated to collect and pay the franchise tax.
   (E)   (1)   The village shall provide copies of annexation ordinances to
energy providers on a timely basis to ensure appropriate franchise tax
collection from customers within the village’s corporate limits.
      (2)   An energy provider’s obligation to collect and pay the franchise
tax from customers within an annexed area shall not commence until the later
of:
         (a)   Sixty days after such energy provider’s receipt of the
annexation ordinance pertaining to such area; or
         (b)   Such time as is reasonably necessary for such energy provider to
identify the customers in the annexed area obligated to pay the franchise tax.
   (F)   (1)   The village shall have access to and the right to examine,
during normal business hours, such of an energy provider’s books, receipts,
files, records, and documents as is necessary to verify the accuracy of
payments due hereunder.
      (2)   If it is determined that a mistake was made in the payment of any
franchise tax required hereunder, such mistake shall be corrected promptly upon
discovery, such that any under-payment by an energy provider shall be paid
within 30 days of recalculation of the amount due, and any over-payment by an
energy provider shall be deducted from the next payment of such franchise tax
due by such energy provider to the village.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 3-6-2007)
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 1-1001)
CHAPTER 36:  VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Adopting the Central Platte Natural Resources District Multi-
Jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
36.02   Adopting the Polk County Local Emergency Operations Plan
§ 36.01  ADOPTING THE CENTRAL PLATTE NATURAL RESOURCES DISTRICT MULTI-
JURISDICTIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Board of Trustees of the village does herewith adopt the Central Platte
Natural Resources District Multi-Jurisdiction Hazard Mitigation Plan and the
Plan’s update in its entirety.
(Res. 12-14, passed 10-1-2012; Res. 2017-45, passed 9-12-2017)
§ 36.02  ADOPTING THE POLK COUNTY LOCAL EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   In order to provide for a coordinated response to a disaster or emergency in
the county, the village, and other cities and villages in Polk County, the
Village Board deems it advisable and in its best interests of the community and
the county to approve the Polk County Local Emergency Operations Plan, attached
to this resolution and adopted as if set out in full. Acceptance of this 2015
Local Emergency Operations Plan supersedes all previous approved Polk County
Local Emergency Operations Plans.
(Res. 2016-10, passed 2-9-2016)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   NATURAL GAS
      
54.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Utility bills
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service
   
50.03   Denial of utility service; when prohibited
   
50.04   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.05   Utility employees relieved from personal liability
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  UTILITY BILLS.
   Utility bills not paid by the fifteenth of the month shall be deemed to be
delinquent. Upon being deemed to be delinquent as herein defined, the village
may discontinue service pursuant to §
50.02. All delinquent consumers shall be assessed a delinquent charge in the
amount of $25 for water, sewer, and garbage. All water services shall be
assessed a $25 disconnect fee and a $25 reconnect fee. Once water service is
disconnected, the service shall not be reconnected except upon payment in full
of all delinquent charges including late fees, disconnect fees, and reconnect
fees. The village may also take any action authorized by law to collect the
delinquent charges.
(1996 Code, § 3-301)  (Ord. 98-4, passed 5-5-1998; Ord. 2016-32, passed 12-13-
2016)
§ 50.02  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The village shall not discontinue utility service to any domestic
subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account unless the village first
gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination, weekends, and holidays
excluded. As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare
recipient to the village by the Department of Health and Human Services, such
notice shall be by certified mail and notice of such proposed termination shall
be given to the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber by
the village, the domestic subscriber, upon request, shall be provided a
conference with the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees has established
procedures to resolve utility bills when a conference is requested by a
domestic subscriber. These procedures, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Village Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in addition
to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as though set out
in full. A copy of such procedures shall be furnished upon the request of any
domestic subscriber. The Board of Trustees shall notify the domestic subscriber
of the time, place, and date scheduled for such conference.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the village for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1603, 70-1604)  (1996 Code, § 3-302)  (Ord. 97-23, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 50.03  DENIAL OF UTILITY SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this village shall
be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings. (Neb. RS 70-1601)  (Ord. 99-11, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 50.04  DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The village utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages
to the utility. A village utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the village
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)
(b) above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred
on account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorney fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-
1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the
utility supply system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering is proven to exist and was responsible or partially
responsible for payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to
any other person for utility services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
(1996 Code, § 3-303)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05  UTILITY EMPLOYEES RELIEVED FROM PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   The village shall hold harmless all village employees and agents when acting
in good faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage
that may accrue to any person or property as a result of any act required or
authorized by Chapters 51, 52, and 53 of this code of ordinances, or by reason
of any act of omission of any village employee or agent in the discharge of his
or her duties thereunder. Any suit brought carrying out the provisions of this
Title V shall be defended by the Village Attorney, or by the village’s
insurance carrier, if any, through final determination of such proceedings.
(Ord. 2007-08, passed 8-7-2007)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 3-701)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
   
51.01   Water Department; operation and funding
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Application for water
   
51.04   Service for nonresidents
   
51.05   Water contract
   
51.06   Installation procedure
   
51.07   Installation expense
   
51.08   Repairs and maintenance
   
51.09   Fees and collections
   
51.10   Minimum rates
   
51.11   Single premises
   
51.12   Restricted use
   
51.13   Fire hydrants
   
51.14   Pollution
   
51.15   Mandatory hook-up
   
51.16   Water service contracts
   
51.17   Inspection
   
51.18   Destruction of property
   
51.19   Unsafe physical connection to water distribution system prohibited;
potential backflow hazards; customer assessment
   
51.20   Backflow prevention devices required; customer installation and
maintenance testing
   
51.21   Addition of fluoride
   
51.22   Water main extensions
   
51.23   Construction of water wells
   
51.24   Installation expense
   
51.25   Water rates
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and operates the Village Water Department through the
Maintenance Supervisor. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Village Water Department
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Village
Treasurer. The Maintenance Supervisor shall have the direct management and
control of the Village Water Department and shall faithfully carry out the
duties of his or her office. The Maintenance Supervisor shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the Village Clerk for public inspection.
(Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305)  (1996 Code, § 3-101)
§ 51.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the village.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building, or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock
at or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop
box, or curb cock is located.
(1996 Code, § 3-102)
§ 51.03  APPLICATION FOR WATER.
   Every person desiring a supply of water must make application therefor to
the Village Clerk upon blanks to be furnished by him or her for that purpose.
If the person making application for water service is not the owner of the
property to be served, such person shall make a combined water and sewer
service deposit in the amount of $42. The application must state fully and
truly all the uses to which the water is to be applied, and no different or
additional use will be allowed except by permission of the Maintenance
Supervisor. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe
except upon the order of the Maintenance Supervisor.
(Neb. RS 17-537)  (1996 Code, § 3-103)
§ 51.04  SERVICE FOR NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the Board of Trustees;
provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall
be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
village to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 19-2701)  (1996 Code, § 3-104)
§ 51.05  WATER CONTRACT.
   The village, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The village may furnish water
to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a village commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid and
may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the village, as and when, according to law, the Board of
Trustees may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water rates
hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the village, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the consumer
shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules
and regulations that the Board of Trustees may hereafter adopt, the Maintenance
Supervisor or his or her agent, may cut off or disconnect the water service
from the building or premises or place of such violation. No further connection
for water service to said building, premises, or place shall again be made
except by order of the Board of Trustees or its agent.
(1996 Code, § 3-105)
§ 51.06  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Maintenance Supervisor shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require one inspection by
the Maintenance Supervisor. The inspection shall be made when connections or
repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. It is the consumer’s
responsibility to notify the Maintenance Supervisor at the time the work is
ready for inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and
strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications
prescribed for such installation by the Maintenance Supervisor; provided that
the said rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved
by the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-537)  (1996 Code, § 3-106)
§ 51.07  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The consumer shall pay a tapping fee in the amount of the actual cost
of construction incurred by the village in tapping the water main. The actual
cost shall include, but not be limited to, charges for trenching and
excavation, material costs of the saddle, clamps, and any other connection
materials, the cost of backfilling the excavation and replacement of concrete,
if any.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for new water service, the village
shall cause an estimate of the charges to be completed. Prior to the beginning
of construction, the consumer shall pay to the village 125% of the estimated
tapping fees. Upon completion of the job, the village shall refund to the
applicant any excess in the amount of the deposit compared to the actual costs
incurred. In the event that the amount of the deposit is less than the actual
costs incurred, the consumer shall pay to the village the difference prior to
water being delivered to the premises.
   (C)   In addition, the consumer shall be required to pay all the expenses of
providing water from the stop box to the place of disbursement.
(Neb. RS 17-542)  (1996 Code, § 3-107)  (Ord. 2018-16, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 51.08  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The village shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply pipe
between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his or her own
expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box to
the place of dispersement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Maintenance
Supervisor shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the
expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the Maintenance Supervisor. All
water meters shall be kept in repair by the village at the expense of the
consumer. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the
village at the expense of the village; provided, that if the customer permits
or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his or her
own recklessness, carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired
or replaced, the Maintenance Supervisor shall bill and collect from the
consumer the cost of such meter repair or replacement in the same manner as
water rent is collected. Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by
freezing shall always be considered negligence on the part of the consumer. All
meters shall be tested at the consumer’s request at the expense of the consumer
any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the test shows the water
meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by
the village. The village reserves the right to test any water service meter at
any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair, the village shall
always have the right to place a new meter on the consumer’s water service
fixtures at village expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to register
properly, the consumer shall be charged for water during the time the meter is
out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of
the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for comparison exists, the
consumer shall be charged such amount as may be reasonably fixed by the Board
of Trustees. It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water
meter, or by any means or device to divert water from the service pipe so that
the same shall not pass through said meter, or while passing through said
meter, to cause the same to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537)  (1996 Code, § 3-108)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09  FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Board of Trustees has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
paid by the water consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All
such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the office of the Village
Clerk. No water service shall be furnished to any customer at a rate that is
different from other customers of the same class or type. Persons, firms, or
corporations desiring to use water temporarily shall pay such rates as the
Board of Trustees shall set. Without respect to the schedule of rates for other
customers, the Board of Trustees may enter into special contracts with large
consumers of water, but never at a rate less than the cost of production, and
the contract shall always provide that the large consumer shall pay the minimum
rate charged to other customers and the contract shall be made on the basis of
water consumed in excess of minimum. A meter shall always be attached to the
water service of such contract consumer and read monthly as in the case of
other classes of water consumers. Water service furnished to the other
departments of the village and to other governmental subdivisions of the State
of Nebraska shall be measured and billed for at such rates as the Board of
Trustees shall set from time to time without respect to the schedule of rates
on file at the office of the Village Clerk, but never at rates that do not
cover the cost of providing water. Whenever water service is supplied to more
than one customer through the same supply pipe, each customer shall pay the
minimum water service charge each month. If two or more customers are supplied
through the same meter, the owner of the premises shall pay for all water
consumed thereon plus separate minimums. One bill only shall be computed for
each meter.
(Neb. RS 17-540)  (1996 Code, § 3-109)  (Ord. 97-2, passed 2-4-1997; Ord. 97-4,
passed 2-4-1997)
Cross-reference:
   Water rates, see §
51.25
§ 51.10  MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Maintenance Supervisor to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case he
or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again.
(Neb. RS 17-542)  (1996 Code, § 3-110)
§ 51.11  SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take
water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building
shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or
connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension, or
attachment without the written permission of the Board of Trustees. It shall
further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means
of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that
the water will not pass through the meter or while passing through said meter
to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537)  (1996 Code, § 3-111)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12  RESTRICTED USE.
   The Board of Trustees or the Maintenance Supervisor may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The village shall not
be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the village has no
control.
(Neb. RS 17-537)  (1996 Code, § 3-112)
§ 51.13  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Shelby Rural Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(1996 Code, § 3-113)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.14  POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Village Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536)  (1996 Code, § 3-114)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.15  MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the Board of Trustees, to hook-up with the village water system.
(Neb. RS 17-539)  (1996 Code, § 3-115)
§ 51.16  WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Maintenance Supervisor who shall cause the
water service to be shut off at the said premises. If the consumer should fail
to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used on the said
premises until the Maintenance Supervisor is otherwise advised of such
circumstances. (Neb. RS 17-537)  (1996 Code, § 3-116)
§ 51.17  INSPECTION.
   The Maintenance Supervisor, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building
to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Neb. RS 17-537)  (1996 Code, § 3-117)
§ 51.18  DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Village Water Department.
   (B)   No person may deposit anything in a stop box or commit any act tending
to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above mentioned property
without the written permission of the Maintenance Supervisor.
(1996 Code, § 3-118)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19  UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION TO WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM PROHIBITED;
POTENTIAL BACKFLOW HAZARDS; CUSTOMER ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   No consumer or other person shall cause, allow, or create any physical
connection between the village water distribution system and any pipes, pumps,
hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat exchangers,
other water supplies, or any other connection whereby potentially unsafe or
contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the village water
distribution system.
   (B)   At least one time every five years, consumers of the village water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the village on a form supplied by the
village to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary for
protection of public health and safety as determined by the Maintenance
Supervisor.
(1996 Code, § 3-119)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20  BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES REQUIRED; CUSTOMER INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE TESTING.
   (A)   A consumer of the Village Water Department may be required by the
Maintenance Supervisor to install and maintain a properly located backflow
prevention device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential hazards
set forth in Title 179, Nebraska Department of Health, and approved by the
Maintenance Supervisor.
   (B)   The consumer shall make application to the Maintenance Supervisor to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
village. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address of the
applicant, the potential hazard the protection required, and the type of
backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Maintenance Supervisor shall approve or disapprove the application
based on his or her opinion of whether such installation will protect the
village water distribution system from potential backflow and backsiphonage
hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing, including the use of a
plumber.
   (E)   Such consumer shall also certify to the village at least one time
annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a Nebraska
Department of Health Grade VI certified water operator, if the device is
equipped with a test port. Such certification shall be made on a form available
at the office of the Village Clerk.
   (F)   Any decision of the Maintenance Supervisor may be appealed to the
Board of Trustees.
(1996 Code, § 3-120)
§ 51.21  ADDITION OF FLUORIDE.
   From and after the effective date of this ordinance codified in this
section, fluoride shall be added to the water supply of the village pursuant to
Neb. RS 71-3305, as amended, in the manner and amount as prescribed by the
rules and regulations of the State of Nebraska Department of Health.
(1996 Code, § 3-121)  (Ord. 96-10, passed 11-5-1996)
§ 51.22  WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   All requests for extension and/or additions to the existing municipal
water main shall be in writing to the Village Clerk upon forms to be furnished
by the Clerk. The Board of Trustees shall not be required to extend the
existing village water main unless a majority of the Board of Trustees deem it
in the best interests of the village and provided that adequate funds have been
budgeted for such capital improvements and are readily available for
construction of an extension to the existing village water main.
   (B)   Upon a properly completed request for water main extension and/or
addition, the village shall cause its Engineer to estimate the cost of
construction from the location of the property to be served by the new water
line to the point of connection to the existing main at a point where it would
be most cost effective, taking into consideration all factors of construction.
The Engineer shall report to the Board of Trustees within one month from the
date the application was properly submitted to the Village Clerk.
   (C)   In the event, after receiving the Engineer’s estimate, the Board of
Trustees deems it in the best interest of the village to extend the existing
village water main and adequate funds for said purpose have been budgeted and
are readily available in the present fiscal year, the Board of Trustees shall
cause the improvements to be made. The property owner requesting extension
shall be required to pay 100% of the costs of construction, including, but not
limited to, labor, materials, engineering, and legal expense.
   (D)   Prior to the commencement of construction of an extension to the
existing village water main, the village shall require the property owner
making the request for extension to make a deposit of 110% of the owner’s share
of the estimated costs of construction, as defined above. If the actual cost
upon completion of the project is less than the amount deposited, the
difference shall be immediately refunded, without interest, to the property
owner. In the event the actual cost of construction upon completion is greater
than the amount of the deposit, the property owner shall immediately pay the
difference to the village.
   (E)   In the event the village water main is extended as provided for in
this section, and another property owner applies for water service which would
connect with the extended line within ten years from the date the construction
was officially completed, there shall be imposed a hook-up fee to the
subsequent property owner. The hook-up fee attributed to the subsequent
property owner shall be determined by a fraction, the numerator of which shall
be the number of feet owned by the subsequent property owner along the water
main extension and the denominator shall be the total number of feet included
in the extension project which shall include the opposite side of any streets
or alleys if the same was not previously served by any existing water main. The
hook-up fee shall be refunded to the residential property owner which
previously paid for the water main extension. In no event shall the previous
property owner receive more than initially paid to the village for construction
of the new water main.
   (F)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the village from causing the
construction and/or addition to the existing village water system entirely at
village expense; provided, however, that the Board of Trustees shall first
determine, prior to any such construction, that the addition or extension shall
be a benefit to the village as a whole and not to any particular owner of
property. In addition, nothing herein shall prohibit the village from
constructing additions to the village water main under any other method
authorized by state law.
   (G)   This section shall have no application to the original developer
required to install water lines as a condition of subdivision approval.
(1996 Code, § 3-122)  (Ord. 96-13, passed 11-5-1996)
§ 51.23  CONSTRUCTION OF WATER WELLS.
   (A)   Construction of a water well of any kinds shall be prohibited within
the village limits or within one mile of said village limits unless the Village
Board has approved by a majority vote. The well driller must first obtain
written permission of the Village Board before constructing the well.
   (B)   The water well must be located and constructed according to Title 178,
Nebraska Department of Health/Housing and Environmental Services/Regulations,
Chapter 9 - Rules and Regulations governing a private well.
   (C)   Any well installed and operated without having first obtained a permit
from the village shall be deemed a nuisance and the Board of Trustees shall
abate such facility as a public nuisance pursuant to §
91.02 of this code of ordinances.
(1996 Code, § 3-123)  (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-4-1997; Ord. 97-2, passed 2-4-1997) 
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   For new water service customers the expense of providing initial water
service to the lot line shall be paid by the consumer. The consumer shall then
pay the cost of installation and pipe from the lot line to the place of
dispersement. The village shall sell to the consumer the stop box, curb stop,
and the cost of the installation of the stop box, curb box, and meter shall be
paid by the consumer, with the exception that the actual material cost of the
water meter and remote reader shall be borne by the village. The consumer shall
be required to pay the expense of procuring the services of a licensed plumber
and shall pay the expense of furnishing and installing pipe, trenching, and the
necessary labor to bring water service from the said lot line to the place of
dispersement.
   (B)   All existing water service customers shall have installed by the
village a water meter and a remote reader on the outside of the premises that
is unobstructed by any part of the building or landscaping and accessible to
the Maintenance Supervisor. The expense of installation and the cost of the
water meter shall be paid by the village. The village shall own the water meter
and shall have the right to enter the premises at reasonable times to install,
inspect, test, and repair and replace the water meter and the remote reader
located on the exterior of the building. In all buildings, residences, or other
structures, the property owner shall provide an unobstructed area not less than
three-foot by three-foot for the location of the water meter, at the property
owner’s expense.
   (C)   At any time, a water meter shall be replaced by the village for any
building, residence, or other structure and said meter shall be installed in
such a manner that the apparatus for indicating consumption, known as a “remote
reader” shall be attached to the outside of the building. The installation
expense shall be paid by the village.
   (D)   (1)   Any water customer refusing access to premises served by the
village water system for the purpose of installing, inspecting, testing, and
repair and replacement of a water meter and remote reader shall be notified in
writing of his or her failure to allow such activities and shall have ten days
thereafter in which to allow such access.
      (2)   If after the ten days’ notice period the customer refuses to
authorize the maintenance supervisor or his or her agents such access, the
village shall discontinue such water service to the premises until such time as
access is authorized.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 2-6-2007)
§ 51.25  WATER RATES.
   (A)   Effective date. Beginning May 1, 2018, the water rates and connection
fees herein specified shall be charged to water customers for water furnished
them by the Water Department of the village and for new connections made after
said date.
   (B)   Water rate schedule.
      (1)   (a)   The following charges for water inside the village limits
shall be in effect from and after May 1, 2018, as provided herein:
 
Meter Size Rates Per Month Effective
1-inch     $38.50
2-inch     $154
3-inch     $261.80
 
         (b)   In addition, there shall be a consumption charge of $2.25 per
1,000 gallons of water used.
      (2)   (a)   The following charges for water outside the village limits
shall be in effect from and after May 1, 2018, as provided herein:
 
Meter Size Rates Per Month Effective
1-inch     $38.50
2-inch     $154
3-inch     $261.80
 
         (b)   In addition, there shall be a consumption charge of $ 2.25 per
1,000 gallons of water used.
   (C)   Water surcharge. Effective May 1, 2018, all water users who have a
sump pump or other devise connected to the sanitary sewer system which enables
storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, or surface drainage to
be discharged into the sanitary sewer shall pay a water surcharge of $75 per
calendar quarter. Said surcharge shall be due and payable along with the rates
prescribed herein and shall become due and payable on the fifteenth day of the
month in which the billing is received.
   (D)   Penalty. The rates and charges including surcharges shall be due and
payable by the fifteenth of the month in which the billing is received. Any
payments made after the fifteenth of the month shall be subject to
disconnection and reconnection fees as set forth in §
50.01 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Lien upon the premises. All water rates, charges, and surcharges
prescribed by this section shall be a lien upon the premises and real estate
for which the water service is supplied and used, and if not paid when due,
such charge shall be certified to the Village Treasurer and may be recovered by
the village in an action at law from the owner or the person, firm, or
corporation requesting the service, or it may be certified to the County
Treasurer and assessed against the premises served and collected or returned in
the same manner as other village taxes are certified, assessed, collected, and
returned. Bills for the water rates, charges, and surcharges made by this
section shall be rendered on the first day of each month and all amounts
charges levied by this section which are not paid within 20 days, shall be
deemed to be delinquent and the water service of such consumer may be
discontinued. A disconnection charge of $25 shall be assessed against said
consumer; service shall be reconnected upon payment in full, and a charge of
$25 shall be assessed against said consumer for such reconnection.
(Ord. 07-11, passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-2-2009; Res. 2013-11,
passed 6-17-2013; Res. 2013-14, passed 8-5-2013; Res. 2015-20, passed 9-8-2015;
Ord. 2018-18, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 3-701)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Sewer Department; operation and funding
   
52.02   Application for permit
   
52.03   Sewer contract
   
52.04   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.05   Direct connections
   
52.06   Service contracts
   
52.07   Installation procedure
   
52.08   Installation expense
   
52.09   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.10   Classification
   
52.11   Rate setting
   
52.12   Old house sewers
   
52.13   Unlawful use
   
52.14   Manholes
   
52.15   Inspections
   
52.16   Sewer main extensions
   
52.17   Sewer user charge
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01  SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village owns and operates the municipal sewer system through the
Maintenance Supervisor.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying the cost of the maintenance and repairing
of any sewer or water utilities in the village, the Board of Trustees may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
taxable value of all the taxable property in the village. The revenue from the
tax shall be known as the Water and Sewer Maintenance Fund and shall be used
exclusively for the purpose of maintenance and repairs of the water and sewer
system.
   (C)   The Maintenance Supervisor shall have the direct management and
control of the Sewer Department, shall faithfully carry out the duties of the
office, and shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
sanitary and efficient management of the Department subject to the supervision
and review of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01)  (1996 Code, § 3-201)  (Ord. 98-30, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 52.02  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Village Clerk. If the person making application for
sewer service is not the owner of the property to be served, such person shall
make a combined water and sewer service deposit in the amount of $35. Sewer
service may not be supplied to any house or building except upon the order of
the Maintenance Supervisor. The Department shall not supply sewer service to
any person outside the corporate limits without special permission from the
Board of Trustees; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other
installation charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be
construed to obligate the village to provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(1996 Code, § 3-202)
§ 52.03  SEWER CONTRACT.
   The village, through the Village Sewer Department, shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The village
may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside
the corporate limits of the village, as and when, according to law, the Board
of Trustees may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and sewer rental
rates hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every customer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of the application on the part of any applicant or the
use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall constitute a contract
between the customer and the village to which said contract both parties are
bound. If the customer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or
any reasonable rules and regulations that the Board of Trustees may hereafter
adopt, the Maintenance Supervisor, or his or her agent, may cut off or
disconnect the sewer service from the building or premises of such violation.
No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises shall
again be made except by order of the Maintenance Supervisor or his or her
agent.
(Neb. RS 17-901, 17-902)  (1996 Code, § 3-203)
§ 52.04  MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Every building hereafter erected shall be connected with the sewer system at
the time of its construction. In the event that any property owner, occupant,
or lessee shall neglect, fail, or refuse, within a period of ten days after
notice has been given to him or her to do so by registered mail or by
publication in a newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, to make
such connection, the Board of Trustees shall have the power to cause the same
to be done, to assess the cost thereof against the property, and to collect the
assessment thus made in the manner provided for collection of other special
taxes and assessments.
(Neb. RS 18-503)  (1996 Code, § 3-204)
§ 52.05  DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make such
connections through one pipe.
(Neb. RS 18-503)  (1996 Code, § 3-205)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06  SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Maintenance Supervisor who shall cause the
sewer service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should
fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until
the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Neb. RS 18-503)  (1996 Code, § 3-206)
§ 52.07  INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Maintenance Supervisor shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require one inspection by the Maintenance Supervisor. The inspection
shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before the pipes are
covered. It is the customers responsibility to notify the Maintenance
Supervisor at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All installation
shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations, and specifications for such installation prescribed by the
Maintenance Supervisor; provided, that the said rules, regulations, and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 18-503)  (1996 Code, § 3-207)
§ 52.08  INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   (A)   The consumer shall pay a tapping fee in the amount of the actual cost
of construction incurred by the village in tapping the sewer main.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for new sewer service, the village
shall cause an estimate of the charges to be completed. Prior to the beginning
of construction, the consumer shall pay to the village 125% of the estimated
tapping fees. Upon completion of the job, the village shall refund to the
applicant any excess in the amount of the deposit compared to the actual costs
incurred. In the event that the amount of the deposit is less than the actual
costs incurred, the consumer shall pay to the village the difference prior to
sewer being delivered to the premises.
   (C)   In addition, the consumer shall be required to pay all the expenses of
providing municipal sewer service from the main to the point of connection in
the improvement on the real estate.
(Neb. RS 17-542)  (1996 Code, § 3-208)  (Ord. 2018-17, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 52.09  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The village shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all pipe
constituting major sewer mains. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
to repair or replace, all other sewer pipe and appurtenances from the main to
and including the customer’s property. All replacements and repairs made by the
customer shall be done in the manner and with the materials approved by the
Maintenance Supervisor; provided, that the same have been previously approved
by the Board of Trustees.
(1996 Code, § 3-209)
§ 52.10  CLASSIFICATION.
   The Board of Trustees may classify for the purpose of rental fees the
customers of the Village Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications
are reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group
of consumers.
(Neb. RS 17-925.02)  (1996 Code, § 3-210)
§ 52.11  RATE SETTING.
   (A)   Customers of the Village Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate
for the use of sewer service.
   (B)   Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on file at the office of
the Village Clerk for public inspection during office hours.
(1996 Code, § 3-211)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer user charge, see §
52.17
§ 52.12  OLD HOUSE SEWERS.
   Old house sewers and drains may be used in connection with new buildings or
new plumbing only when they are found, on examination by the Maintenance
Supervisor, to conform in all respects to the requirements governing new sewers
and drains. If the old work is found defective or otherwise unsatisfactory, he
or she shall notify the owner to make the necessary changes to conform with the
provisions of this code of ordinances.
(1996 Code, § 3-212)
§ 52.13  UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage, or
unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
(1996 Code, § 3-213)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14  MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(1996 Code, § 3-214)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15  INSPECTIONS.
   The Maintenance Supervisor or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this chapter therein.
(1996 Code, § 3-215)
§ 52.16  SEWER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   All requests for extension and/or additions to the existing municipal
sewer main shall be in writing to the Village Clerk upon forms to be furnished
by the Clerk. The Board of Trustees shall not be required to extend the
existing municipal sewer main unless a majority of the Board of Trustees deem
it in the best interests of the village and provided that adequate funds have
been budgeted for such capital improvements and are readily available for
construction of an extension to the existing municipal sewer main.
   (B)   Upon a properly completed request for sewer main extension and/or
addition, the village shall cause its Engineer to estimate the cost of
construction from the location of the property to be served by the new sewer
line to the point of connection to the existing main at a point where it would
be most cost effective, taking into consideration all factors of construction.
The Engineer shall report to the Board of Trustees within one month from the
date the application was properly submitted to the Village Clerk.
   (C)   In the event, after receiving the Engineer’s estimate, the Board of
Trustees deems it in the best interest of the village to extend the existing
municipal sewer main and adequate funds for said purpose have been budgeted and
are readily available in the present fiscal year, the Board of Trustees shall
cause the improvements to be made. The property owner requesting extension
shall be required to pay 100% of the costs of construction, including, but not
limited to, labor, materials, engineering, and legal expense.
   (D)   Prior to the commencement of construction of an extension to the
existing municipal sewer main, the village shall require the property owner
making the request for extension to make a deposit of 110% of the owner’s share
of the estimated costs of construction, as defined above. If the actual cost
upon completion of the project is less than the amount deposited, the
difference shall be immediately refunded, without interest, to the property
owner. In the event the actual cost of construction upon completion is greater
than the amount of the deposit, the property owner shall immediately pay the
difference to the village.
   (E)   In the event the municipal sewer main is extended to a residential
property owner, as provided for in this section, and another property owner
applies for sewer service which would connect with the extended line within ten
years from the date the construction was officially completed, there shall be
imposed a hook-up fee to the subsequent property owner. The amount of the hook-
up fee shall be two-thirds in the case of residential use, and one-third in the
case of business and commercial use of the total cost of the previous project
attributed to the subsequent property owner. The hook-up fee attributed to the
subsequent property owner shall be determined by a fraction, the numerator of
which shall be the number of feet owned by the subsequent property owner along
the sewer main extension and the denominator shall be the total number of feet
included in the extension project which shall include the opposite side of any
streets or alleys if the same was not previously served by any existing sewer
main. The hook-up fee shall be refunded to the residential property owner which
previously paid for the sewer main extension. In no event shall the previous
property owner receive more than initially paid to the village for construction
of the new sewer main.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the use of property shall be
determined by its predominant use, taking into consideration all factors, and
in no event shall an owner be deemed to have a business use of property unless
the property owner can demonstrate actual or anticipated gross revenue in the
amount in excess of $25,000 on an annual basis attributable to the use of said
property location.
   (G)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the village from causing the
construction and/or addition to the existing municipal sewer system entirely at
municipal expense; provided, however, that the Board of Trustees shall first
determine, prior to any such construction, that the addition or extension shall
be a benefit to the village as a whole and not to any particular owner of
property. In addition, nothing herein shall prohibit the village from
constructing additions to the municipal sewer main under any other method
authorized by state law.
   (H)   This section shall have no application to the original developer
required to install sewer lines as a condition of subdivision approval.
(1996 Code, § 3-216)  (Ord. 96-12, passed 11-5-1996)
§ 52.17  SEWER USER CHARGE.
   (A)   User charge. There is hereby established a sanitary sewer use charge
against each lot, parcel of land, or premises served by said sanitary sewerage
system, or which may otherwise discharge wastewater, either directly or
indirectly, into such sanitary sewerage system or any part thereof.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CONSUMER. Includes all users of the municipal sanitary sewerage system of
the village including all persons, firms, or corporations whose premises are
served thereby and all owners and tenants of real estate and buildings
connected with said sanitary sewerage system or served thereby, and all users
of said system who in any way use the same or discharge wastewater or other
liquid, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of the
village.
   (C)   Sewer rate schedule. The following monthly rate for all sanitary sewer
service within the village limits shall be in effect from and after May 1, 2018
as provided herein: a monthly charge of $19.50 for each month or any portion of
the month for which sanitary sewer services are available to the consumer
served by the sanitary sewer system.
   (D)   Surcharges. The village shall have the right to increase the sanitary
sewer monthly charges when it is determined that the strength of a consumer’s
wastewater is significantly greater than other consumers. The village may
require any consumer to, at his or her expense, provide flow measurement and
sample analysis of his or her wastewater. All such surcharges shall be arrived
at by establishing a base rate per pound for biochemical oxygen demand (BOD),
total suspended solids (TSS), and ammonia and comparing the consumer’s
wastewater strength and volume to the base rate. A surcharge shall be added at
the rate of $0.30 per pound when the BOD is in excess of 250 mg/liter, and at
the rate of $0.30 per pound when TSS is in excess of 300 mg/liter of suspended
solids, and $0.70 per pound for ammonia nitrogen when it is in excess of 25 mg/
liter.
   (E)   Outside village limits. For service by the municipal sanitary sewerage
system outside the corporate limits of the village, the consumer shall pay a
rate which is one and one-half times the amount such consumer would pay if he
or she were located in the village limits including the monthly customer
charge.
   (F)   Tapping fee. For each new connection or tap made to the existing
sanitary sewer main, the applicant for such new connection shall pay a tapping
fee as provided in §
52.08, which shall include the cost of the tapping saddle.
   (G)   Determination of inequitable and unfair rates. Where, in the judgment
of the Village Board, by reason of special conditions, the application of the
use charges hereinbefore set forth would be inequitable or unfair to either the
village or the user, a special rate may be established by contract or by
resolution, duly passed and approved by the Village Board. To assist the
Village Board in determining whether or not special conditions exist, any
consumer shall, upon request of the village, provide a satisfactory means of
measuring the sewage flow from the consumer and obtaining a representative
sample of the sewage.
   (H)   Rate saving clause. If for any reason, any of the rates of any user
hereinbefore set forth should be invalid or unenforceable, the village shall be
entitled to receive and collect from such user a reasonable rate or charge for
the use of its sanitary sewerage system, the same to be collected in an action
by law.
   (I)   Private water supply. Sanitary sewer users having a private water
supply which is discharged into the sanitary sewerage system shall be billed at
the same rate as that applied to like customers having the village water
supply.
   (J)   Lien on premises. All sewer use charges prescribed by the section
shall be a lien upon the premises and real estate for which the sewer service
is supplied and used, and if not paid when due, such charge shall be certified
to the Village Treasurer and may be recovered by the village in an action at
law from the owner or the person, firm, or corporation requesting the service
or it may be certified to the County Treasurer and assessed against the
premises served and collected or returned in the same manner as other municipal
taxes are certified, assessed, collected, and returned. Bills for the sewer use
charges made by this section shall be rendered on the first day of each month
and all sewer use charges levied by this section which are not paid within 15
days, shall be deemed to be delinquent and the water service of such consumer
may be discontinued.
   (K)   Just and equitable. The Chairperson and the Village Board find and
determine that the sewerage charges established by this section are just and
equitable rates and charges to be paid to the village for the use of such
sanitary sewerage system and sewage disposal plant by each person, firm, or
corporation whose premises are served thereby.
   (L)   Multiple users. In the event that more than one dwelling unit,
commercial establishment, or other separate entity sewer users are supplied
through the same sanitary sewer line, the owner of the premises shall pay a
rate equal to $_______ per month for each separate dwelling unit connected to
the sanitary sewer system.
   (M)   Effective date. The sewer use charges imposed by this section shall
commence May 1, 2018.
   (N)   Delinquent date. The cost of utility usage shall be due and payable by
the fifteenth of the month in which billing is received.
(Ord. 07-12, passed 10-2-2007; Ord. 2013-13, passed 6-17-2013; Ord. 2018-15,
passed 4-10-2018)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 3-701)
CHAPTER 53:  NATURAL GAS
Section
   
53.01   Classes for rates and charges for natural gas service
§ 53.01  CLASSES FOR RATES AND CHARGES FOR NATURAL GAS SERVICE.
   (A)   Rate schedule, monthly charge: heat value, basis of; adjustment;
penalty for delinquency; adjustment for cost of purchased gas and taxes. The
grantee, its successors or assigns, shall file and make effective initially a
schedule of rates for gas service and shall furnish gas at the schedule of
rates hereafter set forth or at such other reasonable rates as may be hereafter
established from time to time under the Nebraska Municipal Natural Gas
Regulation Act, Neb. RS 66-1801 et seq.
   (B)   Firm gas service rates.
      (1)   Availability. These rates are available only to domestic and
commercial customers whose maximum requirements for natural gas are less than
100,000 cubic feet per day. The grantee shall not be required to serve any
customer at the following rates whose requirements amount to 100,000 cubic feet
or more per day. The grantee may negotiate price and other contract terms with
customers whose natural gas requirements exceed 50,000 cubic feet per day.
      (2)   Residential customers.
 
Residential Customers   Amount
Monthly customer charge $7.50
Rate per 100 cubic feet $0.10325
 
      (3)   Commercial customers.
 
Commercial Customers    Amount
Monthly customer charge $11
Rate per 100 cubic feet $0.13519
 
      (4)   Rates.
         (a)   The foregoing rates apply only when bills are paid on or before
20 days after the monthly billing date. When not so paid, a 1% per month late
fee will apply on the unpaid amount.
         (b)   The above and foregoing rate shall be understood to be based
upon natural gas of the British thermal unit (BTU) heating value of 1,000 BTUs
per cubic foot of gas. If in any monthly period the average heating value of
gas sold and delivered to the customers shall vary from 1,000 BTUs, then the
volumes of gas billed to the customers during that month shall be multiplied by
the factor of average heating value in BTUs + 1.000 to adjust for the variance.
      (5)   Turn-on and reconnect fee. In addition to the other rates set forth
in this section, the grantee may charge a $26 fee to initiate service (“turn-on
fee”) for each customer account and a $30 fee (“reconnect fee”) to reconnect
service that has been discontinued or terminated for nonpayment.
   (C)   Adjustment for cost of purchased gas.
      (1)   In addition to the firm gas service rates set forth in division (A)
above, a separate charge per therm may be made for the monthly cost of
purchased gas in the purchased gas cost adjustment, if the grantee (or any
predecessor of the grantee) has properly filed a natural gas supply-cost-
adjustment rate schedule pursuant to state law. Such purchased gas cost
adjustment shall be computed monthly pursuant to the natural gas supply-cost-
adjustment rate schedule filed by the grantee (or any predecessor of the
grantee) pursuant to state law.
      (2)   Any refund, including interest thereon, if any, received by the
company from its supplier in respect of increased rates paid by the grantee
subject to refund and applicable to natural gas purchased on a firm supply
basis for resale in the village shall be refunded to its gas customers in the
form of credits on such customers’ bills, or in cash, to the extent that such
increased rates paid by the company were passed on to such firm gas customers.
   (D)   Adjustment for taxes. If, after the effective date of this section,
the business of the grantee in the village shall be subjected to any taxes
measured by its gross revenues from the operation of such business or the
volume of such business or constituting a fee for carrying on such business, or
in the event that:
      (1)   The rate of any such tax; or
      (2)   The amount of any such fee shall be increased after the effective
date of this section, the gas distribution company shall be entitled to
increase its charges under the aforesaid rates so as to offset such imposition
or impositions or such increase.
   (E)   General rate adjustment. The above provided for cost of purchased gas
and tax adjustments are apart from and shall not in any manner limit or abridge
either the grantee’s right to request or the Board of Trustees’s authority to
grant general rate adjustments increasing or decreasing such rates.
   (F)   Interruptible gas service rate.
      (1)   Availability. This rate is available only on a contract basis to
commercial or industrial customers whose use of natural gas is subject to
interruption and periods of curtailment for reasons including, but not limited
to, protecting the service of the grantee’s firm gas users.
      (2)   Rate. The rate of interruptible gas service shall be such rate as
may be mutually agreed upon between the customer and that gas service company.
   (G)   Environmental costs. The grantee may defer expenses reasonably
incurred after April 30,1995, as a result of monitoring, testing, and clean-up
(hereinafter referred to generally as “remediation” costs), if any, at the five
manufactured gas plant sites allocated to Rate Area Three. No carrying costs
will be calculated on any such balance of deferred remediation costs. At the
time of its next general rate case, the grantee may request recovery of any
deferred remediation costs and, if recovery is sought, must demonstrate in its
rate application, or 60 days prior to the deadline for filing the municipal
report, that the remediation expenses were prudently incurred and reasonable,
and that grantee made reasonable efforts to recover remediation costs from
potentially responsible third parties (which may include, but are not limited
to, the grantee’s predecessors in interest). Whether any such deferred
remediation costs are to be considered prudently incurred and reasonable, and
whether the length of the amortization period requested by the grantee for
recovering any such deferred remediation expenses is reasonable will be
determined in the next rate case following the incurrence of such remediation
costs. Seventy-five percent of any funds (or the value of any other benefits)
recovered from third parties by or on behalf of the grantee which are
attributable to remediation of any or all of the five manufactured gas plant
sites allocated to Rate Area Three shall be credited to the deferred account.
The grantee may keep 25% of any funds (or the value of other benefits)
recovered from third parties.
   (H)   General terms and conditions. The general terms and conditions
applicable to the natural gas service subject to the Municipal Natural Gas
Regulation Act and provided for under this section will be kept on file with
the Village Clerk. The general terms and conditions may be changed from time to
time by the grantee unless contrary provision is made by an ordinance adopted
in the course of a future rate proceeding.
   (I)   Findings of fact and conclusions of law. The findings of fact and
conclusions of law, which were made a part of the official record at an area
rate hearing, are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 96-2, passed 2-12-1996)
CHAPTER 54:  SOLID WASTE
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Nuisance; abatement
   
54.03   Integrated solid waste management plan
   
54.04   Rates
   
54.05   Deposit
   
54.06   Waiver of garbage fee
   
54.07   Liability for charges; proof of proper disposal
   
54.08   Construction waste
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal,
fruit, or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit,
or vegetable.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste designated or defined as a hazardous waste by
N.A.C. Title 128  - Rules and Regulations Governing Hazardous Waste Management
in Nebraska, which for purposes or general definition is a solid waste which,
because of quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious, irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or
otherwise managed.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
and include garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, industrial wastes, and other such wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and non-combustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind that will be a detriment
to the public health and safety.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, and mining operations, and from
community activities.
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(1996 Code, § 4-201)
§ 54.02  NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful, and declared to be a nuisance, for any person to keep
in, on, or about any dwelling, building, or premises, or any other place within
the village solid waste jurisdiction, decayed vegetable or animal substance,
garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious to the public
health or offensive to the residents of the village unless the same is kept in
receptacles as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be unlawful, and
declared to be a nuisance, to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks,
or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, garbage,
refuse, or rubbish of any kind. No person shall permit garbage, refuse, or
rubbish to collect and all persons shall remove the same within 24 hours after
being notified to do so by the County Sheriff who shall represent the Board of
Health. Any person having garbage, refuse, or rubbish that is subject to decay
or fermentation within a short period of time shall be required to place the
same in a standard garbage can with a tight cover, or a durable plastic
container that is securely tied at its opening.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)  (1996 Code, § 4-202)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.03  INTEGRATED SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts a solid waste management plan which consists
of a system for collection, source separation, storage, transportation,
transfer, processing, treatment, and disposal of solid waste generated within
the corporate limits of the village through the utilization of a contract for
all such services with an authorized and approved garbage hauling and disposal
contractor. The garbage hauling and disposal contractor selected by the village
shall comply with all federal, state, county, and municipal laws, ordinances,
together with all rules and regulations adopted by any governmental authority
regulating the transportation and disposal of garbage, solid waste or refuse of
any kind in the State of Nebraska. The Board of Trustees from time to time
shall execute appropriate contracts with approved garbage hauling and disposal
contractors for all such transportation and disposal services, and a copy of
the executed contract for solid waste, transportation, and disposal services
shall be kept on hand at the office of the Village Clerk for public inspection
during office hours.
   (B)   The garbage hauling and disposal contractor authorized and approved by
the village for transportation and disposal services shall transport and
dispose of all garbage, rubbish, solid waste, and refuse of any kind generated
within the corporate limits of the village and permitted to be deposited in a
landfill licensed by the State of Nebraska. Each person who owns, occupies,
inhabits, uses, or possesses any residence, apartment, building, commercial
establishment, business, school, institution, or any other improved premises
within the corporate limits of the village, or leases to someone who occupies
such premises, must use the authorized and approved garbage hauling and
disposal contractor for the transportation and disposal of all garbage,
rubbish, solid waste, and refuse of any kind generated thereon, except such
solid waste that is not lawfully deposited in landfills licensed by the State
of Nebraska.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to permit or allow any unauthorized garbage
hauling or disposal person, entity, or contractor to collect, transport, or
dispose of any garbage, rubbish, solid waste, or refuse of any kind from any
residence, apartment, building, commercial establishment, business, school,
institution, or any other improved premises within the corporate limits of the
village.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit individuals,
businesses, or firms from collecting materials such as metals, glass, plastic,
and newspapers which have been separated at their source for delivery to
recycling centers, or individuals, businesses, and firms which use such
materials as raw products in their manufacturing process.
(Neb. RS 13-2020)  (1996 Code, § 4-203)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04  RATES.
   (A)   Every person who owns, occupies, inhabits, uses, or possesses any
residence, apartment, building, commercial establishment, business, school,
institution, or any other improved premises within the corporate limits of the
village, shall pay a garbage fee as assessed and determined by the Board of
Trustees. In the case of property leased by an owner thereof to a tenant, the
garbage fee shall be paid for by the owner. The rates shall be on file in the
office of the Village Clerk for public inspection during office hours with the
monthly rates being as follows:
 
Businesses, schools, and institutional   $27 per yard (based on container size)
services (once a week pickup) per month
Businesses, schools, and institutional   $39.25 per yard (based on container
services (twice a week pickup) per month size)
Residential services (family)            $20.50 per month
Residential services (couple)            $19 per month
Residential services (individual)        $17.50 per month
For 2 carts                              $6 per month extra
Rates are effective January 1, 2019
 
   (B)   The village reserves the right to be exercised by resolution to
contract and charge separately and on such terms as may be contained in said
resolution with all persons, businesses, entities, commercial establishments,
or institutions who generate unusual or hazardous kinds or unusually large
amounts of garbage, rubbish, solid waste, or refuse. Said resolution shall not
be adopted until appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing have been given
to such persons, entities, businesses, institutions, or commercial
establishments generating unusual or hazardous kinds or unusually large amounts
of garbage, rubbish, solid waste, or refuse.
   (C)   Upon written application to the Board of Trustees, a property owner of
any residence, apartment, house, mobile home, building, or institution may
obtain a waiver of the garbage fee provided that each of the following
conditions are satisfactorily proven to the Board of Trustees, to-wit:
      (1)   The residence, house, apartment, building, or institution is
unoccupied for the entire month: and
      (2)   There is no garbage, rubbish, solid waste, or refuse of any kind
generated within or without said improvement.
   (D)   The waiver of the garbage assessment fee shall be effective only
during the period of time both of the conditions in division (C) above are
satisfied.
   (E)   The monthly garbage assessment fee shall be paid quarterly, in
advance, on May 1, 1994, for the months of May and June 1994; thereafter, the
bills will be consolidated with the municipal water bills and be payable in
advance on July 1, October 1, January 1, and April 1 of each year. Payment
shall become delinquent if not paid by the tenth of the month in which they are
due and, in such case, a late payment fee shall be assessed in the amount of $5
to such property owner.
   (F)   In the event such garbage assessment fees are not paid when due, the
village may recover said amounts from the owner by filing a civil action or,
following notice by regular United States mail to the last known address of the
property owner of record and an opportunity for hearing, such unpaid amounts
for garbage services may be certified by the Board of Trustees to the County
Treasurer and assessed against the premises served and collected or returned in
the same manner as other taxes are certified, assessed, collected, and
returned.
(Neb. RS 13-2020)  (1996 Code, § 4-204)  (Ord. 05-18, passed 9-6-2005; Ord.
2006-01, passed 1-3-2006; Ord. 2007-04, passed 3-6-2007; Ord. 2008-01, passed
1-3-2008; Ord. 2018-90, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 54.05  DEPOSIT.
   There shall be due to the village, the sum of $32 for a deposit to ensure
the prompt payment of the garbage fees assessed pursuant to §
54.04 of the village. The deposit shall be due and payable in all cases wherein
the residence, apartment, building, commercial establishment, business, school,
institution, or any other improved premises within the corporate limits of the
village shall be leased or otherwise occupied by someone other than the owner
of the improved real estate. The deposit shall be due and payable at the time
application for water service is made and water service shall not be connected
until said deposit is paid.
(1996 Code, § 4-205)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 3-11-1996)
§ 54.06  WAIVER OF GARBAGE FEE.
   For the purposes of the charges authorized by §
54.04, the premises are served if solid waste collection service is available
to the premises or if a solid waste drop-off location is provided, unless the
person who would otherwise be subject to such rates or charges proves to the
Board of Trustees that his or her solid waste was lawfully collected and hauled
to a permitted facility. Such proof shall be provided by a receipt from a
permitted facility, a statement from a licensed hauler, or other documentation
acceptable to the Board of Trustees of the municipality.
(1996 Code, § 4-206)  (Ord. 98-1, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 54.07  LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; PROOF OF PROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees has separately established charges to be paid to
it by each person whose premises are served by the municipal solid waste
collection system. For purposes of such charges, a person’s premises are deemed
to be served by the municipal solid waste collection system and the owner and
occupant of the premises shall be deemed served and therefore liable for the
charges unless the owner or occupant proves to the Board of Trustees that:
      (1)   The premises are unoccupied; or
      (2)   The solid waste generated at the premises during the applicable
billing period was lawfully collected and hauled to a permitted facility or was
otherwise disposed of in conformance with all applicable laws, regulations, and
ordinances.
   (B)   Proof of proper disposal during the applicable billing period may be
provided by means of any of the following:
      (1)   A billing receipt or other statement from a duly permitted solid
waste hauling service for collection of solid waste at the premises during the
applicable billing period;
      (2)   A billing receipt or register tab from a duly permitted transfer
station or disposal facility or landfill for solid waste received during the
applicable billing period; or
      (3)   Such other documentation of proper disposal as may be acceptable to
the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 13-2020)  (Ord. 99-10, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 54.08  CONSTRUCTION WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, property owner, tenant, lessee,
contractor, or any other person constructing new buildings, structures, or
other improvements or remodeling of existing buildings, structures, or other
improvements to deposit or to allow construction waste and materials to
accumulate for removal by the village’s garbage hauling and disposal
contractor. Any such person, property owner, tenant, lessee, or contractor
shall be required to haul and deposit his or her own construction waste to a
landfill licensed by the State of Nebraska or make separate arrangements with
the village’s garbage hauling and disposal contractor for removal of
construction waste. Construction waste shall include, but not be limited to,
lumber, bricks, insulation, siding, concrete, blocks, glass, shingles, tar
paper, and any other waste materials remaining which results from the
construction or remodeling of any building, structure, or other improvement on
real estate.
(1996 Code, § 4-207)  (Ord. 98-2, passed 11-11-1997)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by a reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense, A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours after such
failure to comply.
(1996 Code, § 4-401)  (Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Signs; signals
   
70.03   Speed limits; generally
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Nebraska Rules of the Road, see Neb. RS 60-601
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations, or public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a
highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle, not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled, and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official,
any village police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE through the use of a sign or
traffic control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the SCHOOL
CROSSING ZONE and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or other device not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority
of the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the Nebraska Rules of
the Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or regulation regulating
traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in
this Traffic Code, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)  (1996 Code, § 5-101)
§ 70.02  SIGNS; SIGNALS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages, or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic control devices, traffic surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter, or
knock down any sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Transportation, the county, or the village,
to remove any sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device
placed along a highway for traffic control, warning, or informational purposes
by official action of the department, county, or village. It shall be unlawful
for any person to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation
of this division (C).
   (D)   Any person violating divisions (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of
the sign, traffic control device, or traffic surveillance device and the cost
of replacing it.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, provide for the placing of
stop signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any
street or alley under the village’s jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
or prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of
the street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard, or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130)  (1996 Code, § 5-103)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  SPEED LIMITS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Basic rule.
      (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the
actual and potential hazards then existing.
      (2)   A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185)
   (B)   Maximum limits.
      (1)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) above, the limits set forth in this section and
Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful
speeds unless reduced pursuant to division (B)(2) below, and no person shall
drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
         (a)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
         (b)   Twenty mph in any business district;
         (c)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless
surfaced;
         (d)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of
the state highway system;
         (e)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of
the state highway system; and
         (f)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other
than an expressway, a super-two highway, or a freeway.
      (2)   The maximum speed limits established in division (B)(1) above may
be reduced by the Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees
pursuant to division (D) below or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
      (3)   The Board may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways
under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems
necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to
divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186)
   (C)   Bridges and other elevated structures.
      (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct, or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees may
conduct an investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting
a part of a highway under its jurisdiction, and if it finds that the structure
cannot safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible,
the Department or the Board shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division
(C)(1) above, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department
or the Board and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge
or structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189)
   (D)   Alternative maximum limits.
      (1)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the
basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit
is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to
exist at any intersection, place, or part of the state highway system outside
of the corporate limits of cities and villages, as well as inside the corporate
limits of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway
system, it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for
such intersection, place, or part of such highway which shall be the lawful
speed limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place, or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
      (2)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the Board of
Trustees shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits
as the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic
investigation, except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are
part of the state highway system in the village shall be effective without the
approval of the Department.
      (3)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 mph.
      (4)   When the Department or the Board determines by an investigation
that certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-
6,305, and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in
divisions (D)(2) and (D)(3) above and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313
or set pursuant to this division (C) above, this (D), or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the
Department or the Board may restrict the speed limit for such vehicles on
highways under its respective jurisdiction and post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
   (E)   Near schools.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
      (2)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such
school premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at
any intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school
premises.
(1996 Code, § 5-104)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 5-401)
CHAPTER 71:  PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
Police
   
71.01   Enforcement
   
71.02   Refusal to obey
Traffic Citations
   
71.15   Disposition and records
Traffic Rules
   
71.30   Driving under the influence; persons under 21 years of age
   
71.31   Use of engine brakes unlawful within the village
 
   
71.99   Penalty
POLICE
§ 71.01  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized and
it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of such
officers to enforce the provisions of Nebraska Rules of the Road and this
Traffic Code, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and
any other state or village law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use
of the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act or this title or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar village ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of Nebraska, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles, or any village ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)  (1996 Code, § 5-201)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 71.02  REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing, or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in Neb. RS 60-681;
      (8)   Regulate operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the Nebraska Rules
of the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds, and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction.
            (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(22), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
               ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power producing engine
into a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss.
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall not erect or maintain any traffic control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under divisions (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17), or
(A)(19) above shall be effective until traffic control devices giving notice of
such local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such
affected highway or part thereof affected as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)  (1996 Code, § 5-202)
TRAFFIC CITATIONS
§ 71.15  DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department, upon issuing a traffic citation to an
alleged violator of any provision of this Traffic Code, shall deposit a copy of
the traffic citation with the County Attorney, unless the citation is just a
warning.
   (B)   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the County Attorney,
such citation may be disposed of only by trial in said court, or other official
action by the judge of the court, including a forfeiture of bail, or by the
deposit of sufficient bail with, or payment of a fine to the court by the
person to whom such traffic citation has been issued.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the County Sheriff’s Department to dispose of
a traffic citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the
same in a manner other than as required herein.
(Neb. RS 29-422, 29-424)  (1996 Code, § 5-203)  Penalty, see §
71.99
TRAFFIC RULES
§ 71.30  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to operate
or be in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (a)   When such person has a concentration of 0.02 of one gram or more by
weight, of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood but less than the
concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(b); or
      (b)   When such person has a concentration of 0.02 of one gram or more by
weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath but less than the
concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(c).
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the
purposes of determining the concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the municipality
may require any person under 21 years of age to submit to a chemical test or
tests of his or her blood or breath for the purpose of determining the
concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath when the officer has probable
cause to believe that such person was driving or was in actual physical control
of a motor vehicle in the municipality in violation of this section. Such peace
officer may require such person to submit to a preliminary breath test. Any
person who refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose
preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol concentration in violation
of this section shall be placed under arrest.
   (D)   (1)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood or breath for a determination of the concentration of
alcohol.
      (2)   If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of this section, or such person refuses to submit to such
test or tests required pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.01, 60-6,211.02, 60-6,203)  (Ord. 99-6, passed 6-1-1999) 
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31  USE OF ENGINE BRAKES UNLAWFUL WITHIN THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use engine brakes, commonly
known as “jake brakes” on any vehicle within the village limits.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      USE OF JAKE BRAKES. A device which when activated retards one or more
pistons on the engine of said truck or motor vehicle in order to assist the
truck or motor vehicle in braking and in such process creating a loud and
offensive noise from the motor vehicle or truck.
(Ord. 2013-15, passed 10-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Similar provision, see §
71.02(A)(22)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 5-401)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Designation
   
72.02   Areas
   
72.03   Curbs; painted
   
72.04   Repair
Handicapped or Disabled Persons
   
72.15   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
72.16   Designation of off-street parking stalls or spaces
   
72.17   Definitions
   
72.18   Permit issuance
   
72.19   Motor vehicle permit issuance
   
72.20   Permit contents; prohibited issuance; duplicate permits
   
72.21   Permits; permit valid; renewal; fee
   
72.22   Permits nontransferable; violations; suspension
   
72.23   Removal of unauthorized vehicle; penalty
   
72.24   Citation; issuance; complaint; trial; dismissal
Parking
   
72.35   Current license
   
72.36   Time limit
   
72.37   Maximum time limit
   
72.38   Removal of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.39   Semi-trailers prohibited
   
72.40   Snow emergency
   
72.41   Unlawful parking; removal of vehicles
   
72.42   Truck-tractors with auxiliary power unit prohibited
   
72.43   Parking in residential yards prohibited
   
72.44   Parking of non-motorized vehicles on public streets and alleys
prohibited
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  DESIGNATION.
   The Board of Trustees may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing, or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)  (1996 Code, § 5-301)
§ 72.02  AREAS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing, or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing, or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
(1996 Code, § 5-302)
§ 72.03  CURBS; PAINTED.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted red, or another color specified by the Board of Trustees, to
indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the Board adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the parking
or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain facilities
or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or location
shall be painted in such manner as directed by the Board to indicate such
regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Board or its agent to cause the curb space
to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this chapter or as
specified by the Board. The marking or designating of portions of highways
where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done only by
the village through its proper officers, at the direction of the Board. No
person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any manner set aside, or
attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the Board.
(1996 Code, § 5-303)
§ 72.04  REPAIR.
   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the
motor of same, while standing on the public streets or alleys of this village,
excepting in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or
employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets,
or alleys in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on
automobiles or vehicles of any description.
(Neb. RS 60-680)  (1996 Code, § 5-304)  Penalty, see §
72.99
HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 72.15  DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may designate parking spaces for the
exclusive use of:
         (a)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113.04;
         (b)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
         (c)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 60-3,113.04; and
         (d)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which
display such permit.
      (2)   All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the
motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield.
      (3)   The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees so designates a parking space, it shall be
indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from
each space a sign which is in conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices. In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space.
(Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1737)  (1996 Code, § 5-305)  (Ord. 97-24, passed 8-5-1997;
Ord. 99-7, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 72.16  DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS OR SPACES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb.  RS
60-3,113.04;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the village, whose vehicles
display the permit specified in Neb. RS 60-3,113.04; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the village, which
display such permit.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space a sign: which is in
conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(Neb. RS 18-1737)  (1996 Code, § 5-306)  (Ord. 97-25, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 72.17  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual or
physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results in an inability
to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a wheelchair,
crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other assistant device, any
individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standard set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces designated for use by handicapped or
disabled persons; or
      (2)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 60-331.02, 60-352.01)  (1996 Code, § 5-307)  (Ord. 97-26,
passed 8-5-1997)
§ 72.18  PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application from a handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her
parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the
holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of
transporting such holder to park in those spaces provided for by this
subchapter when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle
while it is parked in such spaces. For purposes of this section, the
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person
shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 60-3,113.02.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form signed by a physician, physician assistant, or nurse
practitioner certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the
definition of handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person. In the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person,
the certifying physician, physician assistant, or nurse practitioner shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (D)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.19 but not both.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.02)  (1996 Code, § 5-308)  (Ord. 97-27, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 72.19  MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle
for which it was issued is being used for the transportation of a handicapped
or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person and such
person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
designated spaces.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of any
person making application contrary to Neb. RS 60-3,113.03.
   (C)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Village
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the Village
Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of
handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons.
A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each applicant.
   (D)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.18 but not both.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the
name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant
to this section.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.03)  (1996 Code, § 5-309)  (Ord. 97-28, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 72.20  PERMIT CONTENTS; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit issued for handicapped or disabled parking shall be
constructed of a durable plastic designed to resist normal wear or fading for
the term of the permit’s issuance and printed so as to minimize the possibility
of alteration following issuance. The permit shall be of a design, size,
configuration, color, and construction and contain such information as
specified in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the United
States Department of Transportation in the Uniform System for Handicapped
Parking, 23 C.F.R. part 1235.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) above, the permit
shall show such identifying information with regard to the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person to whom it is
issued as is necessary to the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.22. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed upon the
payment of the permit
   (D)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the
same manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form
need not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the
most recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Village
Clerk. A duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the period for
which the original permit was issued.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.04)  (1996 Code, § 5-310)  (Ord. 97-29, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 72.21  PERMITS; PERMIT VALID; RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for handicapped or
disabled parking prior to September 10, 1993, shall be issued for a period
ending January 1 of the fourth year following the date of issuance. All permits
authorized under this subchapter for handicapped or disabled parking after
September 9, 1993, and before September 10, 1995, shall be issued for a period
of three years. Upon the expiration of a permanent permit, it may be renewed
pursuant to the provisions of this section and §§
72.18 and
72.19. After September 9, 1995, all permanently issued permits authorized by
this subchapter shall be issued for a period ending September 30 of the third
year following the date of issuance and shall expire on that date, except that
an application for the renewal of a permit filed with the Village Clerk within
30 days of the date after its expiration shall be deemed to have been filed
prior to the date of its expiration. The possession of an expired but otherwise
valid handicapped parking permit with 30 days following the date of its
expiration shall serve as a full and complete defense in any action for a
handicapped parking infraction resulting from the absence of a handicapped
parking permit arising during that 30-day period.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter after September 9, 1995,
for temporarily handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period
ending not more than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed
for a one-time period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there
shall be submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or
disability and the required permit fee.
   (C)   A permit fee of $3 shall be charged for each permit, $2 of which shall
be retained by the Village Clerk and $1 of which shall be forwarded on a
quarterly basis to the State Treasurer for credit to the Department of Motor
Vehicles Cash Fund.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.05)  (1996 Code, § 5-311)  (Ord. 97-30, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 72.22  PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE; VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall alter or
reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter. No person
shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit. Any violation of this section shall
be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of six months. At the
expiration of such period, a suspended permit may be renewed upon payment of
the permit fee.
(Neb. RS 60-3,113.02)  (1996 Code, § 5-312)  (Ord. 97-31, passed 8-5-1997)
§ 72.23  REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department, and the village
providing on-street parking or owning, operating, or providing an off-street
parking facility may cause the removal, from a stall or space designated
exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of such persons, of
any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license
plates specified in this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a sign which
clearly and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   Anyone who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space which has
been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of
such persons; or in any so exclusively designated parking space in any off-
street parking facility, without properly displaying the proper permit or when
the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom the license plate or
permit is issued will not enter or exit the vehicle while it is parked in the
designated space shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction as defined
in §
72.19 and shall be subject to the procedures set forth in §
72.24 and the penalty provided for in this chapter. The display on a motor
vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or
disabled person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state
shall constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped
parking infraction. If the identity of the person who parked the vehicle in
violation of this section cannot be readily determined, the owner or person in
whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for
such violation and shall be guilty and subject to the penalty provided for in
this chapter.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned on-street parking facility, the owner
or person in lawful possession of such facility shall not be required to inform
the village of a violation of this section prior to the village issuing the
violator, a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Neb. RS 18-1737)  (1996 Code, § 5-313)  (Ord. 97-32, passed 8-5-1997) 
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24  CITATION; ISSUANCE; COMPLAINT; TRIAL; DISMISSAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the Board of Trustees to exercise the
authority to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Village Attorney or other person authorized by law to issue
a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such person shall
be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (E)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 and 60-3,113.03, the
complaint shall be dismissed if, within seven business days after the date of
issuance of the citation, the person cited files with the court the affidavit
included on the citation, signed by a peace officer certifying that the
recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped
parking permit issued under Neb. RS 60-3,113.02 and 60-3,113.03 and that the
peace officer has personally viewed the permit.
(Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04, 18-1741.06)  (1996 Code, § 5-314)  (Ord. 97-
33, passed 8-5-1997)
PARKING
§ 72.35  CURRENT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful to park, or place on the streets, alleys, or other
public property any motor vehicle without first securing a current license as
provided by law, and no such licensed motor vehicle shall be allowed to stand
for a longer period than 24 hours.
(1996 Code, § 5-315)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.36  TIME LIMIT.
   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time
limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 60-680)  (1996 Code, § 5-316)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.37  MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over 24 consecutive
hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
(Neb. RS 60-680)  (1996 Code, § 5-317)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.38  REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a
street or alley or upon private property in violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, such individual may remove or have such vehicle removed, or
require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move such
vehicle, to a place where the vehicle may be legally parked.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle
prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be
entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid. The
lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165, 60-680)  (1996 Code, § 5-318)  (Ord. 2017-15, passed 6-13-
2017)
§ 72.39  SEMI-TRAILERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to park any semi-trailer upon any street or alley
within the village limits. This section shall not prohibit parking upon the
streets or alleys for a reasonable time to load or unload any semi-trailer when
such parking is necessary to load or unload the semi-trailer for lawful
commercial activity or necessary to load or unload goods to residents or
inhabitants of the village.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 1-6-1998)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.40  SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever, by reason of sleet, freezing rain, or a heavy snow fall, a
serious public hazard impairing transportation and the movement of fire,
medical, and police protection services exists, a snow emergency may be
declared, and such snow emergency shall continue until such time as snow
removal, spreading of sand, or salting operations have been declared completed.
   (B)   The Village Board Chairperson or the Village Board Chairperson’s
designee shall have the authority to declare a snow emergency when the
aforesaid conditions exist, and also to declare the completion of snow
emergency operations.
   (C)   Whenever an emergency exists, the Village Board Chairperson or the
Chairperson’s designee shall cause an announcement thereof to be made by not
less than two or more radio or television stations or other methods of
communication whose normal operating range covers the village in an expeditious
manner within once hour thereafter.
   (D)   When a snow emergency is in effect, no one shall park a motor vehicle
on the streets within the village.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-2010)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41  UNLAWFUL PARKING; REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When a snow emergency is in effect, any vehicle parked on the
streets or alleys in the village shall be ordered removed as hereinafter
provided.
      (2)   All vehicles are to remain off of said streets and alleys until the
snow emergency operations have been completed.
   (B)   Vehicles parked in violation of this section are a nuisance and a
danger and interfere with snow emergency operations and the Chief of Police and
County Sheriff has the authority to order the removal of any vehicle parked in
violation of this section. The Chief of Police and the County Sheriff may issue
such order personally or through one or more deputies. The cost of towing and
storage of any such vehicle removed in violation of this section shall be paid
by the registered owner before the vehicle is released from storage. The towing
and storage costs shall be in addition to any fine or penalty authorized by §
72.99.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-2010)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.42  TRUCK-TRACTORS WITH AUXILIARY POWER UNIT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any truck-tractor whether or not it is
attached to a semi-trailer in any residentially zoned area within the village
limits for over 24 consecutive hours when such truck- tractor is equipped with
an auxiliary power unit and the auxiliary power unit is operational or left in
idle mode.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUXILIARY POWER UNIT. Any device or equipment on a motor vehicle that
provides energy for functions other than propulsion. Examples of this
definition shall include, but not be limited to, heating and air conditioning,
radios, televisions, and any other equipment on the truck-tractor requiring
electrical power and energy to operate.
(Ord. 5-320, passed 10-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.43  PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL YARDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to park any car, van, pick-up truck, trailer, or truck
within any front, side or rear yard of any residential lot; provided however
that such parking may occur within an attached or detached garage or on a
driveway between the street or alley and attached or detached garage.
(Ord. 2013-11, passed 6-3-2013)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.44  PARKING OF NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ALLEYS
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to park any non-motorized vehicle to include, but not
limited to, campers, trailers, fifth wheels, and any other vehicle as defined
by Neb. RS 60-676 in the State of Nebraska Rules of the Road from November 1
through April 1. Any such vehicle standing upon a street or alley in violation
of this provision shall be removed as provided by §
72.38.
(Ord. 2015-23, passed 12-8-2015)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 5-401)
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Truck traffic; weight
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the general maximum speed limits within the corporate
limits of the village, no person shall operate any vehicle in excess of 15 mph
on Birch Street, between the north line of Highway 81/92 and the south line of
Oak Street, within the corporate limits.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)  (1996 Code, § 5-105)
   (B)   Notwithstanding the general maximum speed limits within corporate
limits of the village, no person shall operate any motor vehicle in excess of
the following limits at the locations indicated:
 
Street           Speed Limit;     1996 Code Ord.              Date Passed
                 Restricted Area  Section
                 50 mph from the
Highway US-81/N- west corporate                               2-4-1997; 2-4-
92 (Park Street) limits to 200    5-106     97-3; 97-4; 99-14 1997; 9-7-1999
                 feet west of
                 Cedar Street
                 35 mph from 200
Highway US-81/N- feet west of                                 2-4-1997; 2-4-
92 (Park Street) Cedar Street to  5-106     97-3; 97-4; 99-14 1997; 9-7-1999
                 200 feet east of
                 Birch Street
                 50 mph from 200
Highway US-81/N- feet east of                                 2-4-1997; 2-4-
92 (Park Street) Birch Street to  5-106     97-3; 97-4; 99-14 1997; 9-7-1999
                 1,000 feet east
                 of Birch Street
Highway          35 mph from Park
Nebraska-69      Street to 500    5-106     97-3; 97-4; 99-14 2-4-1997; 2-4-
(Walnut Street)  feet south of                                1997; 9-7-1999
                 Circle Drive
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE II.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Section
70.03 of this code of ordinances authorizes the Board of Trustees to provide
for the placing of stop signs in any street or alley under the village’s
jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, or prohibiting traffic thereon.
   (B)   Stop signs will be erected at the following locations:
 
Intersection of Cherry and Cedar Streets     East-west traffic will stop
Intersection of Washington and Cedar Streets East-west traffic will stop
 
   (C)   All other locations remain the same.
(Ord. 04-17, passed 9-7-2004)  Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE III.  TRUCK TRAFFIC; WEIGHT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any truck having a
gross weight in excess of six tons or any truck having a loading capacity in
excess of six tons upon or over Birch Street, between the north line of Highway
81/92 and the south line of Oak Street, in the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, use, operate, or park
any vehicle, including trailers and semi-trailers having a gross weight,
whether loaded or unloaded, in excess of 6,000 pounds on Third Avenue from Park
Street to Euclid Avenue within the village. This division (B) shall not prevent
motor vehicles having a gross weight in excess of 6,000 pounds from using said
street belonging to any firm, person, or corporation providing utility services
or delivering materials to residents of Third Avenue when the presence of said
vehicle is necessary for the delivery of such utility services and materials.
(Neb. RS 60-680)  (1996 Code, § 5-102)  Penalty, see §
71.99
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I.  PARKING PROHIBITED.
 
Street             Side       Restriction             Ord./Res.    Date Passed
                              Between the blocks of
Cedar Street       East side  Washington Street and   2014-14      4-7-2014
                              Carol Street in the
                              village limits*
                              Between the blocks of
East Cherry Street South side Walnut Street and Ash   2014-16      12-1-2014
                              Street in the village
                              limits*
                              Between Park Street and
Third Avenue       West side  Euclid Avenue at any    Res. 2013-12 7-1-2013
                              time
                              Between the blocks of
                              Washington Street and
Walnut Street      Both       Carol Street in the     2016-28      11-8-2016
                              village limits at any
                              time
* The village shall place no parking signs to warn residents of this
prohibition.
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
95.   MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
      
96.   LIBRARY
      
97.   CEMETERY
CHAPTER 90:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
90.01   Health regulation
   
90.02   Health; enforcement official
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  HEALTH REGULATION.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
village, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-208)  (1996 Code, § 4-101)
§ 90.02  HEALTH; ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Chief of Police, or other official designated by the Board of Trustees,
as the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the village. It
shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of Trustees and the Board of
Health of health nuisances within the village and its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 17-208)  (1996 Code, § 4-102)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 4-401)
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Specifically defined
   
91.02   Abatement procedure
   
91.03   Failure to correct
   
91.04   Cost of removal
   
91.05   Jurisdiction
Abandoned Automobiles
   
91.20   Generally
   
91.21   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
91.22   Vehicle impoundment; fees; disposition
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   (A)   Nuisance; generally. A NUISANCE consists in doing any unlawful act, or
omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing
to be or exist, which act, omission, condition, or thing:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the municipality;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property; or
      (7)   Tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Nuisance; specifically. Nuisance includes the maintaining, using,
placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific
acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things of:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (2)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors, or
polluted air from any source that is injuiious or dangerous to human health and
safety;
      (3)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
      (4)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (5)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
      (6)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
      (7)   Hauling any garbage, waste, or refuse matter through the streets,
alleys, and public ways except when the same is loaded and conveyed in such a
way when none of the contents shall be spilled;
      (8)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary retention of
waste in receptacles nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and
manner approved by the municipality;
      (9)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brae, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (10)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire
danger, or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity;
      (11)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard, or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards, or other structures are a fire hazard, or a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity;
      (12)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds,
or for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, tracks, tractors, or
machinery of any land, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any land, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (13)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens,
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (14)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the village, or on private property within the one mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
(Neb. RS 17-555)
      (15)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any other
nuisance;
      (16)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
      (17)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing, or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any land,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery,
and equipment;
      (18)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked, or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and
manner, when necessary to the lawful operation of such business enterprise
(such as a licensed salvage dealer, motor vehicle dealer, or farm implement
dealer), or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner, and so long as the premises which said vehicle is
located is not a nuisance and is maintained in a healthful and safe condition;
      (19)   Lots, pieces of ground, and the adjoining streets and alleys with
growth of weeds or noxious growth; and
      (20)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code of ordinances.
(1996 Code, § 4-302)  (Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002; Ord. 12-13, passed 10-1-
2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, tenant, lessee, or
mortgagee of real estate in the village to keep such real estate free from
public nuisances. Whenever the Village Board, by resolution, determines that
any nuisance as defined in sections §
91.01 is being maintained, the Village Clerk shall cause written notice to
abate to be served upon the owner of the property or upon the owner’s duly
authorized agent and to the occupant, if any on which such nuisance is located
by personal service or certified mail service. In the event that certified mail
or personal service upon the owner is unsuccessful, the village shall cause
notice to be published in a legal newspaper in general circulation in the
village once a week for three weeks. Such notice shall state that the Village
Board has determined that a nuisance is being maintained on the property and
must be removed or remedied within 15 days of receipt of notice or within 15
days of the publication if service is by publication. Such notice shall
describe the real property involved, shall define the nuisance and require that
the nuisance must be abated. The date of service shall be the later of the
certified mail receipt, the date of personal service or the date of the third
published notice.
   (B)   If said owner or occupant requests in writing a hearing with the
Village Board, within seven  days of the date of service, the Village Board
shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held. Notice of the
hearing shall be given by regular first-class mail and require the owner or
occupant to appear before the Village Board to show cause why such condition
should not be found to be a public nuisance and remedied. Such notice shall be
given not less than ten nor more than 30 days before the time of hearing. On
the date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to the notice, the Village Board
shall hear all objections made by the owner or occupant. If after consideration
of all the evidence, the Village Board shall find that the said condition is a
public nuisance, it shall, by resolution, order and direct the owner or
occupant to remedy the said public nuisance at once. Should the owner or
occupant refuse or neglect to promptly comply with the order of the Village
Board, the Village Board shall proceed to cause the abatement of the described
public nuisance and may levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate so benefitted as provided for in §
91.04 and in addition, in the event that the owner or occupant of the premises
fails to correct and eliminate said nuisance pursuant to the notice provided
herein, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined as provided for in
§
91.99.
(1996 Code, § 4-303)  (Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002; Ord. 12-13, passed 10-1-
2012; Ord. 2016-24, passed 9-13-2016; Ord. 2019-25, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 91.03  FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   In the event that the owner or occupant of said premises fails to correct
and eliminate said nuisance pursuant to the notice set forth in §
91.02, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined as provided in §
91.99.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002; Ord. 12-13, passed 10-1-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  COST OF REMOVAL.
   If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance within 15 days from the receipt of
the notice to abate, the village may have such work done and the cost and
expense of such work shall be paid by the owner of the property. If unpaid for
two months after such work is done, the village may either levy and assess the
costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed, or recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002; Ord. 12-13, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 91.05  JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson of the village and the County Sheriff are directed to
enforce this code of ordinances against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the
Chairperson, County Sheriff and court shall extend to, and the territorial
application of this chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits
of the village within one mile thereof and all territory within the corporate
limits.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)  (1996 Code, § 4-304)
ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES
§ 91.20  GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to abandon any automobile on the village
streets, highways, alleys, parks, or other property.
      (2)   An automobile shall be deemed to be ABANDONED if left unattended:
         (a)   With no number plates affixed thereto, for more than six hours
on any public property;
         (b)   For more than 24 hours on any public property, except a portion
thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
         (c)   For more than 48 hours, after the parking of such vehicle shall
have become illegal, if left on a portion of a public property on which parking
is legally permitted; or
         (d)   For more than seven days on private property if left initially
without permission of the owner, or after permission of the owner shall be
terminated.
   (B)   The title to any automobile so abandoned which at the time of such
abandonment, has no number plates of the current year affixed, and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of such vehicle, of
$100 or less, shall immediately vest in the village. In the event the
automobile is licensed for the current year or is of a wholesale value of over
$100, the village police shall make a reasonable effort to contact the owner of
the said automobile by sending a notice to the registered owner, if known; by
sending an inquiry to the county it is registered in, if the owner is unknown;
or by contacting the Director of Motor Vehicles, if the car is without license
plates and the owner is unknown. If notified by the Director of Motor Vehicles
that a lien or mortgage exists on said vehicle, notice shall also be sent to
the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall be required
to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle. If the owner,
lienholder, or mortgagee is known and does not claim the automobile within five
days after the date when the notice was mailed, or upon receiving word from the
Director of Motor Vehicles that the owner is unknown, title will immediately
vest in the village and the automobile may be sold. Any proceeds from the sale
of the automobile less any expenses incurred by the village in such sale shall
be held without interest for the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for a
period of two years. If not claimed within such period of time, the proceeds
shall then be paid into the General Fund.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county or village owned property.
   (D)   Any person who abandons an automobile as hereinbefore defined shall be
deemed to be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1901 through 60-1911)  (1996 Code, § 6-308)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21  UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the village, other
than village property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessees, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle, whether licensed or not, to remain on such property
longer than ten days. This section shall not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed
building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise, operated in a
lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the village. Any vehicle allowed to
remain on property in violation of this section shall constitute a nuisance and
shall be abated, and any person violating this section shall be guilty of an
offense.
(1996 Code, § 6-309)  (Ord. 2017-20, passed 7-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22  VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT; FEES; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Impoundment. Any law enforcement officer is hereby authorized to
remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the village or on
any village property within or without the corporate limits which reasonably
appears to be abandoned as defined in §
91.20 or reasonably appears to be unlicensed or inoperable as defined in §
91.21 or which is in violation of
Chapter 72 of this code of ordinances. Any such vehicle shall be impounded
until lawfully claimed and disposed of in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Towing and storage fee. There is hereby established a towing fee of
$50 for all vehicles impounded by the village pursuant to this section. In
addition, there shall be a storage fee of $10 per day, or any portion thereof
for outside storage, and $20 per day or any portion thereof for inside storage
while the vehicle remains in storage. In the event that a private towing
company is hired to tow the illegally parked, abandoned, wrecked, discarded,
inoperable, or unlicensed vehicles, the towing and storage fee shall be the
amount charged by the private towing company. All towing and storage fees shall
be a lien on the vehicle and shall be paid prior to its release to the person
entitled to lawful possession of such vehicle.
   (C)   Disposition of impounded vehicles.
      (1)   Within three business days of the impoundment of any vehicle
pursuant to this section, the village shall cause notice of the impoundment to
be given to the last title holder of said vehicle as determined by the Nebraska
Department of Motor Vehicle records. The notice shall be sent by ordinary
first-class mail and shall advise the owner that unless the vehicle is claimed
within five days from the date of the notice it will be sold at public auction.
The vehicle shall be released to the lawful owner upon presentation to the
village the certificate of title indicating that the person claiming the
vehicle is the lawful owner and upon payment of all impoundment, towing, and
storage charges.
      (2)   In the event that the vehicle is not claimed within five days from
the date notice is sent and all impoundment, towing and storage fees paid, the
vehicle shall be sold by the village at public auction. Any proceeds of the
sale shall be first applied to the costs of impoundment, towing, and storage.
Any excess shall be applied to any lien holders and the balance, if any, shall
be paid to the lawful owner. Title to any vehicle unclaimed shall immediately
vest in the village. In the event there are excess sale proceeds after lien
holders and the lawful owner are unknown, the village shall hold the excess for
two years and if still unclaimed at said time, the proceeds shall be paid into
the village’s General Fund.
(1996 Code, § 6-310)  (Ord. 96-8, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 2017-25, passed 7-11-
2017)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.05, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by a reference, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more
than $500 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours after such failure to comply.
(1996 Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of said premises fails to correct and
eliminate said nuisance, he or she shall be fined a sum not to exceed $500.
Each day’s violation after the expiration of the 15 days’ notice shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.22, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall be
deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(1996 Code, § 6-401)
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-7-2002; Ord. 12-13, passed 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 92:  ANIMALS
Section
Animals; Generally
   
92.001   Animals; banned from municipality
   
92.002   Unusual animals prohibited
Dogs
   
92.015   Owner defined
   
92.016   Proclamation
   
92.017   Running at large
   
92.018   Capture impossible
   
92.019   Barking and offensive
   
92.020   Liability of owner
   
92.021   Rabies suspected
   
92.022   Dog guides, hearing aid dogs and service dogs; exempt from license tax
Dangerous Dogs
   
92.035   Definitions
   
92.036   Restrained
   
92.037   Confined
   
92.038   Failure to comply
Dog Licensing
   
92.050   License
   
92.051   License tags
   
92.052   Wrongful licensing
Cats
   
92.065   License
   
92.066   License tags
   
92.067   Wrongful licensing
   
92.068   Owner defined
Kennels
   
92.080   Defined
   
92.081   Unlicensed kennel; nuisance
   
92.082   Kennel license
   
92.083   Kennel regulations
 
   
92.999   Penalty
ANIMALS; GENERALLY
§ 92.001  ANIMALS; BANNED FROM MUNICIPALITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine, chickens, ducks, geese, or any
other livestock or fowl including their offspring. This provision shall not
apply to the Shelby-Rising City School District vocational/agricultural program
when the keeping of such animals or offspring are part of the educational
course of study being offered by the Shelby-Rising City School District.
(1996 Code, § 6-201)  (Ord. 2017-07, passed 4-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.002  UNUSUAL ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep, or harbor
any unusual animal within the corporate limits of the village, except that this
section shall not be construed to prohibit a public zoo, circus, humane
society, or carnival from displaying unusual animals as exhibits or to prohibit
any wildlife rescue organizations with appropriate permits from the Nebraska
Game and Parks Commission from rehabilitating or sheltering unusual animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away,
transfer, or import into the village any unusual animal as defined in this
section, excluding a public zoo from doing business with another public zoo.
   (C)   In the event the Chief of Police determines an unusual animal is being
owned, kept, or harbored by any person in violation of this section, the Chief
of Police may have such person prosecuted for such violation and shall order
such person to remove said unusual animal from the village, or destroy it. Such
order shall be contained in a written notice to remove or destroy said unusual
animal within five days and shall be delivered in person or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. If the owner or person keeping or harboring such
unusual animal shall have failed to remove or destroy such unusual animal after
the expiration of five days from the receipt of said notice and no appeal is
taken, the Chief of Police shall have such unusual animal destroyed.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTICATED. A tame animal that is subject to the dominion and control
of an owner or person keeping or harboring said animal, and accustomed to
living in or near human habitation without requiring extraordinary restraint
for the protection of humans or unreasonably disturbing such human habitation.
      UNUSUAL ANIMAL. Any poisonous or potentially dangerous animal not
normally considered domesticated, and shall include animals prohibited by the
village, or federal requirements, and also:
         (a)   Class mammalia; order carnivora, family felidae (such as lions,
tigers, jaguars, leopards, bobcats, and cougars), except commonly accepted
domesticated cats and hybrids involving the same; family canidae (such as
wolves, coyotes, and fox); family mustelidae (such as weasels, martins,
fishers, skunks, wolverines, mink, and badgers), except ferrets; family
procyonidae (such as raccoon); family ursidae (such as bears); order primata
(such as monkeys and chimpanzees); and order chiroptera (such as bats);
         (b)   Poisonous reptiles, cobras, and their allies (elapidae
hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (crotiladae, viperidae); boonslang and
kirkland’s tree snake; and gila monster (heleodermatidae); and
         (c)   Non-poisonous reptiles or snakes that will grow to more than six
feet in length at maturity.
(Ord. 99-5, passed 5-11-1999)  Penalty, see §
92.999
DOGS
§ 92.015  OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store, enclosure, or remain to be fed, shall be
deemed the OWNER and POSSESSOR of such dog and shall be deemed to be liable for
all penalties herein prescribed.
(1996 Code, § 6-101)  (Ord. 98-7, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 92.016  PROCLAMATION.
   Whenever in its opinion the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the Board of Trustees shall issue a
proclamation ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to
confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the
date of the proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be
harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or yard on the
premises on which the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all
owners of any such species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in
this section.
(1996 Code, § 6-102)  (Ord. 98-7, passed 7-7-1998)  Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 92.017  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to
permit or allow such dog to run at large.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section to RUN AT LARGE shall mean to permit,
either intentionally or unintentionally, a dog to be present upon the streets,
sidewalks, and alleys of the city and any other public or private property not
owned or occupied by the owner, keeper, or harborer of said dog. A dog shall
not be considered to run at large if the dog is secured by a leash and is under
the immediate supervision of a person able to keep the dog under reasonable
control.
   (3)   All dogs found running at large are hereby declared a public nuisance
and shall be impounded and disposed of as provided by the animal control
officer.
(1996 Code, § 6-103)  (Ord. 96-11, passed 11-5-1996; Ord. 97-5, passed 5-6-
1997; Ord. 98-5, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 98-7, passed 7-7-1998)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.018  CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The County Sheriff shall have the authority to kill any animals showing
vicious tendencies, or characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Neb. RS 54-604)  (1996 Code, § 6-104)
§ 92.019  BARKING AND OFFENSIVE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog
which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy
or disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of vehicles while they are on any public
sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the municipality.
   (B)   The municipal police shall investigate any complaints and if, in their
opinion, the situation warrants, shall notify the owner to silence and restrain
such dog. Each day that the owner shall fail to keep the dog from loud,
continued or frequent barking, howling, or yelping and shall annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person or which habitually barks at or chases pedestrians,
drivers, or owners of vehicles or persons while they are on any public
sidewalk, street, or alley in the municipality, shall be guilty of a separate
and distinct offense for each such day.
(1996 Code, § 6-109)  (Ord. 99-2, passed 1-5-1999)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.020  LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
(1996 Code, § 6-110)  Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 56-602, and 54-606
§ 92.021  RABIES SUSPECTED.
   (A)   (1)   Any animal which is owned by a person and has bitten any person
or caused an abrasion of the skin of any person shall be seized by the rabies
control authority for a period of not less than ten days if:
         (a)   The animal is suspected of having rabies, regardless of the
species and whether or not the animal has been vaccinated;
         (b)   The animal is not vaccinated and is a dog, cat, or another
animal of a species determined by the department to be a rabid species; or
         (c)   The animal is of a species which has been determined by the
Department to be a rabid species not amenable to rabies protection by
immunization, whether or not the animal has been vaccinated.
      (2)   If, after observation and examination by a veterinarian, at the end
of the ten-day period the animal shows no clinical signs of rabies, the animal
may be released to its owner.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, whenever any person
has been bitten or has an abrasion of the skin caused by an animal owned by
another person, which animal has been vaccinated, or if such an injury to a
person is caused by an owned dog, cat, or other animal determined by the
Department to be a rabid species amenable to rabies protection by immunization
which has been vaccinated, the animal shall be confined by the owner or other
responsible person as required by the rabies control authority for a period of
at least ten days and shall be observed and examined by a veterinarian at the
end of the ten-day period. If no clinical signs of rabies are found by the
veterinarian, the animal may be released from confinement.
      (2)   A vaccinated animal owned by a law enforcement or governmental
military agency which bites or causes an abrasion of the skin of any person
during training or the performance of the animal’s duties may be confined as
provided in division (B)(1) above. The agency shall maintain ownership of and
shall control and supervise the actions of the animal for a period of 15 days
following the injury. If during such period the death of the animal occurs for
any reason, a veterinarian shall within 24 hours of the death examine the
tissues of the animal for clinical signs of rabies.
   (C)   Any dog, cat, or other animal of a rabid species which has bitten a
person or caused an abrasion of the skin of a person and which is unowned or
the ownership of which cannot be determined within 72 hours of the time of the
bite or abrasion shall be immediately subject to any tests which the Department
believes are necessary to determine whether the animal is afflicted with
rabies. The 72-hour period shall include holidays and weekends and shall not be
extended for any reason. The tests required by this division (C) may include
tests which require the animal to be destroyed.
(Neb. RS 71-4406)  (1996 Code, § 6-111)
§ 92.022  DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS AND SERVICE DOGS; EXEMPT FROM LICENSE
TAX.
   Every dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, hearing aid dog for
a deaf or hearing impaired person, and service dog for a physically limited
person shall be licensed as required by the village code of ordinances, but no
license tax shall be charged upon a showing by the owner that the dog is a
graduate of a recognized training school for dog guides, hearing aid dogs, or
service dogs. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of the dog as a dog guide,
hearing aid dog, or service dog, the owner of the dog shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)  (Ord. 98-32, passed 8-4-1998)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 92.035  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of the village, and includes any local law enforcement agency or other
agency designated by the village to enforce the animal control laws of the
village.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized by
an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals and includes
any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties in whole or
in part include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any
animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
         (a)   Has killed a human being;
         (b)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
         (c)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
         (d)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog
by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (2)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or has, in
the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the
dog.
      (3)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage, or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
      (4)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other licensed
health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or treatment for
one or more broken bones.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision,
or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that when unprovoked:
         (a)   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
         (b)   Injures a domestic animal; or
         (c)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
      (2) Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery or one or more broken bones or
that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Neb. RS 54-617)  (1996 Code, § 6-105)
§ 92.036  RESTRAINED.
   (A)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed or
neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
   (B)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this
state.
   (D)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such dog
to be transported to another county, city, or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city,
or village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may
grant such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and
the dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of
the county, city, or village in which he or she resides with regard to
dangerous dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control
authority shall not grant permission under this section if the county, city, or
village has an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous
dogs. After the permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and
such dog for a period of at least 30 days but not to exceed 90 days to ensure
the owner’s compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city, or
village with regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (D) shall
permit the rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)  (1996 Code, § 6-106)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.037  CONFINED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
   (B)   (1)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall
be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to
the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one foot. The
pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The pen or
structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the owner.
      (2)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the
property where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of
public access and that inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
Each warning sign shall be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall
contain the words warning and dangerous animal in high-contrast lettering at
least three inches high on a black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)  (1996 Code, § 6-107)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.038  FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by
the animal control authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an
animal control officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the
action by the animal control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner
violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal control
authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
(1996 Code, § 6-108)
DOG LICENSING
§ 92.050  LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog over the age of three
months within the village shall within ten days after acquisition of the said
dog, acquire a license for each such dog annually by or before April 1 of each
year. The said tax shall be delinquent from and after April 10; provided the
possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits
subsequent to April 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the dog
tax levied herein and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid within 30 days
from the date the dog is brought into the village. All dogs owned or harbored
in the village on which taxes are delinquent may be put to death in a humane
manner at the order of the governing body. Licenses shall be issued by the
Village Clerk upon the payment of the license fee of $5 for each dog. Said
license shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of the
death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed dog. The owner shall state at
the time the application is made upon printed forms provided for such person,
his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog
owned and kept by him or her. A certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot
effective for the ensuing year of the license shall be presented when the
license is applied for and no license or tax shall be issued until the
certificate is shown.
   (B)   In addition to the rabies vaccination certificate, the owner shall
bring the dog to the village office at the time of licensing for a photo
identification to be kept on file in the village office to aide in the
identification of dogs picked up by animal control authorities.
   (C)   Each dog owner as a requirement of obtaining a license shall be
required to provide liability insurance in an amount of not less than $300,000
which policy shall insure third parties against personal injuries and property
damages caused by said dog. At the time of licensing a certificate of insurance
shall be provided to the village from an insurance company licensed to do
business in Nebraska. The village shall be notified in the event of
cancellation of said insurance policy by the owner of the licensed dog. In the
event the policy of insurance is cancelled and no replacement policy is issued
within three days of cancellation, the license shall be revoked, the dog shall
be deemed a nuisance and removed from the village limits by the dog owner
without further notice.
   (D)   This section shall apply to all new dog licenses issued after the
passage of this ordinance as codified herein. Dog licenses currently in effect
shall be subject to the new requirements provided herein at the time the
license is renewed.
(Ord. 98-7, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-6-2009; Ord. 2014-10,
passed 3-3-2014)
§ 92.051  LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Village Clerk shall issue to the
owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tag shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor said dog
until April 30 following such licensing. In the event that a license tag is
lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or tag was issued
in accordance with the provisions herein, the Village Clerk shall issue a
duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has
been paid and may charge and collect the fee of $5 for each duplicate or new
tag so issued. All license fees and collections shall immediately be credited
to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to issue tags of
a suitable design with a different appearance each year.
(Ord. 98-7, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 92.052  WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag, or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Village Clerk for the dog.
(Ord. 98-7, passed 7-7-1998)  Penalty, see §
92.999
CATS
§ 92.065  LICENSE.
   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a cat over the age of three months
within the village shall within ten days after acquisition of the said cat,
acquire a license for each such cat annually by or before May 1 of each year.
The said tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10; provided the possessor
of any cat brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to
May 1 of any year, shall be liable for the payment of the cat tax levied herein
and such tax shall be delinquent if not paid by February 1. All cats owned or
harbored in the village on which taxes are delinquent may be put to death in a
humane manner at the order of the governing body. Licenses shall be issued by
the Village Clerk upon the payment of the license fee of $5 for each cat. Said
license shall not be transferrable and no refund will be allowed in case of the
death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed cat. The owner shall state at
the time the application is made upon printed forms provided for such person,
his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each cat
owned and kept by him or her. A certificate that the cat has had a rabies shot
effective for the ensuing year of the license shall be presented when the
license is applied for and no license or tax shall be issued until the
certificate is shown.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 92.066  LICENSE TAGS.
   (A)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Village Clerk shall issue to
the owner of a cat a license certificate and a metallic tag for each cat so
licensed.
   (B)   The metallic tag shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all cats so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor said cat
until April 30 following such licensing.
   (C)   In the event that a license tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence
that the original plate or tag was issued in accordance with the provisions
herein, the Village Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of
the year for which the license tax has been paid and may charge and collect the
fee of $5 for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (D)   All license fees and collections shall immediately be credited to the
General Fund. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to issue tags of a
suitable design with a different appearance each year.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 7-7-1998)
§ 92.067  WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any cat to permit
or allow such cat to wear any license, metallic tag, or other municipal
identification than that issued by the Village Clerk for the cat.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 7-7-1998)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.068  OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall harbor or permit any cat to be for ten days or more in
or about his or her house, store, enclosure, or remain to be fed, shall be
deemed the OWNER and possessor of such cat and shall be deemed to be liable for
all penalties herein prescribed.
(Ord. 98-6, passed 7-7-1998)
KENNELS
§ 92.080  DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KENNEL. Any lot or parcel of land or place where more than three dogs over
the age of six months are confined, treated, boarded, housed, or cared for, and
shall include any lot of parcel of land or place where a person, corporation,
or other entity engages in, conducts, manages, or maintains a veterinary
business, regardless of the number of animals, treated, kept, confined, or
boarded.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 92.081  UNLICENSED KENNEL; NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that it is unlawful and shall be a nuisance for any
person, corporation, partnership, or other entity to maintain, keep, conduct,
or operate any kennel within the zoning limits of the village without first
obtaining a license therefor.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 7-1-2013)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.082  KENNEL LICENSE.
   Any person or legal entity seeking a kennel license shall make written
application to the Village Board. Such application shall state in detail the
type, number, and gender of animals to be held in such kennel, describe the
kennel facility in detail and provide such other information as may be required
by the Village Board. Such application shall also have attached thereto the
consent of all property owners or occupants of lands or lots adjoining the land
upon which the proposed kennel is to be located. In the event that the Village
Board determines that such kennel would not constitute a nuisance, it shall
issue such license on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate. Such
license shall be on an annual basis and may be revoked after notice and hearing
for violation of any term or condition of the issuance of the license. The
annual license fee shall be $100 and the license shall not be issued until such
fee is paid.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 92.083  KENNEL REGULATIONS.
   Every place used as a kennel shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
and no refuse or waste material shall be allowed to remain thereon for more
than 24 hours. All animals shall be humanely treated, and any animal having any
disease shall be properly isolated and treated.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 92.999  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 6-401)
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Prevention
   
93.01   Fire limits; words and phrases defined
   
93.02   Territory comprising fire limits
   
93.03   New construction and additions
   
93.04   Moving combustible buildings
   
93.05   Barricades and lights
   
93.06   Damaged buildings and structures
Open Burning
   
93.20   Open burning ban; waiver
Fireworks
   
93.35   Permitted
   
93.36   Sale
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.01  FIRE LIMITS; WORDS AND PHRASES DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A house for business, residence, or public use or for the shelter
of humans or beast or the storage or display for sale of goods, wares, or
merchandise; or any erection connected with the temporary or permanent use of
humans; any fixture or article of a chattel nature which can be severed from
the land after having been affixed to it.
   IRONCLADS. Buildings, sheds, or structures constructed of wood and covered
with sheet iron or tin. or constructed of sheet iron or tin attached to a
framework or posts or any skeleton support constructed of wood or other
combustible materials.
   STRUCTURE. Any production or piece of work used for shelter artificially
built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner and not
necessarily affixed to the land, although resting upon it and capable of being
moved from one place to another.
(Neb. RS 17-550)  (1996 Code, § 7-101)
§ 93.02  TERRITORY COMPRISING FIRE LIMITS.
   The following territory shall constitute the fire limits of the village:
beginning at the intersection of Pine Street and Walnut Street, east one block,
then south one block, hence west one-half block, then south to Park Street;
then west one block, hence north to Pine Street and east one-half block to
point of beginning.
(1996 Code, § 7-102)
§ 93.03  NEW CONSTRUCTION AND ADDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company, or corporation to
build, erect, construct, or cause to be built, erected, or constructed any
wooden or other combustible building or part thereof or to enlarge any such
building, or to build any addition thereto within the fire limits.
   (A)   Building requirements. Every building hereafter erected or enlarged
within the fire limits shall be enclosed on all sides with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or equivalent
incombustible materials; provided, roofs and dormer windows on said masonry
buildings may be constructed with wood joists but said roofs and dormer windows
shall, in all cases, be covered with non-combustible material, with tin, iron,
slate, tile, or fireproof roof; and provided further, incombustible materials
may be construed to include wood when applied to floors in any building within
the fire limits. All cornices shall be of incombustible material.
   (B)   Minor repairs. Minor repairs on existing wooden or ironclad
structures, such as to stop leaky shingle roofs, siding on existing warehouses
or storage sheds, where the work might be fairly construed as patching or
covering small areas on the outside or inside of combustible buildings, shall
not require fireproof materials.
   (C)   Roofing. When combustible buildings are permitted to be roofed or
reroofed in the fire limits, roof covering over all combustible roof
construction shall be either of the following kinds: combustible roofings
bearing the label and laid in the manner provided by the Underwriters
Laboratory. Inc., for Class A and B; concrete slab or concrete tile; slats;
clay; tile; or asphalt.
(1996 Code, § 7-103)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  MOVING COMBUSTIBLE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Move in, on, or place. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons,
company, or corporation to move in, on, or place upon any lot or parcel of
ground within the fire limits, any wooden or combustible building or structure,
or of any part thereof, which had been built, erected, or constructed
elsewhere, or to remove any such building or structure or part thereof from one
part of the same lot to another part thereof within said fire limits.
   (B)   Temporary permits.
      (1)   Generally. Upon application in writing from the owner or agent,
permission may be granted by a two-thirds vote of the members required to be
elected to the Board of Trustees for a temporary removal of said combustible
building to such a location in the street or other place within said fire
limits as said Board of Trustees shall specify, when the owner of any such
building desires immediately to construct on its former site a building of non-
combustible material and shall, immediately after the completion of said non-
combustible building, move said combustible building outside of the fire
limits.
      (2)   Bond. Before any such permits shall be issued, the owner or agent
desiring the same shall furnish the village with a good and sufficient bond
conditioned to save the village harmless from any liability occasioned by such
removal.
(1996 Code, § 7-104)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, lessee, or contractor, and of all
or any of them, during the construction of any building or improvement upon or
near the line of any public street, highway, alley, or sidewalk, to have all
excavations or exposures of any kind protected and guarded by suitable guards
or barricades by day, and by warning red lights at night. In case of the
failure, neglect, or refusal of said persons, or any of them, to erect such
guards and keep the street, highway, or sidewalk well and securely guarded, it
shall be lawful for the County Sheriff or any police officer of the village
forthwith to stop all work upon said buildings and improvements until guards
are erected and kept in the manner aforesaid.
(1996 Code, § 7-105)
§ 93.06  DAMAGED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Whenever any wooden or any non-combustible building stands within said fire
limits and it shall be damaged by fire or other casualty to the extent of 50%
or more of its value (exclusive of foundation), it shall not be repaired or
rebuilt, but shall be taken down and removed.
   (A)   Time limitation. The building so damaged shall be removed within 60
days from the date of the casualty causing the damage.
   (B)   Repair or rebuilding restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any
person, persons, company, or corporation to repair or rebuild any such damaged
building or structure or for any owner thereof to fail to remove any such
damaged building or structure and to protect and guard the public from injury
or damage arising out of such excavation or open basement remaining, if any,
within 30 days after notice to do so from the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Removal by the municipality. If such owner fails or neglects to remove
said building or structure, and to protect and guard the public from injury or
damage arising out of such excavation or open basement remaining, if any, as
commanded by said notice, the Maintenance Supervisor, upon motion of the Board
of Trustees, shall remove said building or structure and shall protect and
guard said excavation or open basement, if any, and shall report the cost and
expense thereof to the Village Attorney, who shall collect such cost and
expense from said owner by civil suit or otherwise in the name of the village.
(1996 Code, § 7-106)  Penalty, see §
93.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.20  OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Chief of the Shelby Rural Fire Department or his or her
designee may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area
under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning.
      (2)   The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his or her designee to a
person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee, and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   (1)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open burning
ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief or
his or her designee.
      (2)   Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open burning ban has
been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her intention to burn.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01)  (1996 Code, § 7-107)  Penalty, see §
93.99
FIREWORKS
§ 93.35  PERMITTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths inch in length
or one-eighth inch in diameter, and which do not contain more than 50
milligrams each in weight of explosive material.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
Board of Trustees or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant
to written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244, 28-1245)  (1996 Code, § 7-201)  Penalty, see
§
93.99
§ 93.36  SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer for
sale as a distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks without first
obtaining a license from the State Fire Marshal. Licensees shall only sell
fireworks which have been approved by the State Fire Marshal, and permissible
fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and July 5 of each year.
(Neb. RS 28-1246 through 28-1250)  (1996 Code, § 7-202)  (Ord. 99-16, passed
12-6-1999)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 7-301)
   (B)   There is hereby imposed a payment of a penalty of $10 per day for each
and every day such combustible building is allowed to remain on its temporary
site after the completion of the non-combustible building.
(1996 Code, § 7-104)
CHAPTER 94:  PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Maintenance and control
   
94.03   Obstructions
   
94.04   Sale and conveyance
   
94.05   Overhanging branches
   
94.06   Acquisition of property; construction, elections when required
   
94.07   Acquisition of real property
   
94.08   Acquisition of property; appraisal
   
94.09   Public works involving architecture or engineering requirements
Sidewalks
   
94.20   Kept clean
   
94.21   Maintenance
   
94.22   Repair
   
94.23   Construction by owner
   
94.24   Municipal construction
Streets
   
94.35   Widening of streets
   
94.36   Excavation
   
94.37   Driving stakes
   
94.38   Mixing concrete
   
94.39   Harmful liquids
Curb and Gutter
   
94.50   Cutting curb
 
   
94.99   Penalty
VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS.The village official with general charge, direction, and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
(1996 Code, § 8-101)
§ 94.02  MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares, and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)  (1996 Code, § 8-102)
§ 94.03  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The village may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks,
curbstones, gutters, and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them
there or at the expense of the village and require and regulate the planting
and protection of shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and
removing of such trees.
   (B)   The village may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and
basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, lampposts,
awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and
all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the village.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
(1996 Code, § 8-103)
§ 94.04  SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (I) below, the power of the village to
convey any real and personal property owned by it, including land used for park
purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property and the
manner and terms thereof, except that such real and personal property shall not
be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for such real and
personal property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for
a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in division (A) above
and the terms thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
village.
   (D)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the village
equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the village voting at the
last regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the Board of
Trustees, such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be
sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but
the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the
next business day.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Board of Trustees, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
Board of Trustees shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by
certified mail, return receipt requested. Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a
written receipt that the remonstrance is in the custody of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
compare the signature of each person signing the remonstrance with the voter
registration records to determine if each signer was a registered voter on or
before the date on which the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s
printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and village or post office
address with the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was
a registered voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid
only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed
name, street, and number or voting precinct, and village or post office address
matches the registration records and that the registration was received on or
before the date on which the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees.
The determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted
by any credible evidence which the Board of Trustees finds sufficient. The
express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter
registration records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the
remonstrance, the sufficiency of the remonstrance, and the qualifications of
the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and misrepresentation in the
remonstrance process. Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall certify to the Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary
to constitute a valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall deliver the remonstrance and the certifications to the Board of Trustees
within 40 days after the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of
Trustees. The delivery shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement
officials, or by certified mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20
signatures on one signature page shall be counted.
   (F)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the hearing,
vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid, and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (G)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the State of Nebraska for state armory sites
or, if acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed
strictly in accordance with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 to 18-1006.
   (H)   (1)   The property shall then be sold following:
         (a)   Passage of the resolution directing a sale;
         (b)   Publishing of the notice of the proposed sale; and
         (c)   Passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance period.
      (2)   Such sale shall be confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the
name of the purchaser and terms of the sale. The Village Clerk shall upon
passage of such ordinance certify the name of the purchaser to the Register of
Deeds of the county in which the property is located.
   (I)   Divisions (A) to (H) above shall not apply to the sale of real and
personal property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item or
items of real and personal property, the total fair market value of which is
less than $5,000. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the village for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale
by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01)  (1996 Code, § 8-104)  (Ord. 98-34, passed 8-4-
1998)
§ 94.05  OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of said walk and at least 20
feet above the surface of said street. Whenever the limbs or branches of any
tree or trees extend over the streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions
herein so as to interfere with the lighting of the street from the street
lights, or with the Board of Trustees at any regular or special meeting may
pass resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or remove said
obstructions within five days after having received a copy thereof from the
Overseer of Streets stating that the village will remove said branches and
charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment for
improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is not complied with. In
the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the
property lies, the village shall, before levying any special assessment against
that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by
means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of
the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)  (1996 Code, § 8-105)  (Ord. 2017-10, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 94.06  ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION, ELECTIONS WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   The village is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, village building, or community house
for housing village enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including construction of
buildings to be leased in whole or in part by the village to any other
political or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease
such buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the village at a general village election or at an election duly called for
that purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village and no
election shall be required to approve the purchase or construction unless
within 30 days after the publication of the notice, a petition against the
purchase or construction is signed by registered voters of the village equal in
number to 15% of the registered voters of the village voting at the last
regular village election held therein and is filed with the Board of Trustees.
If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the
filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a petition with the necessary number of qualified signatures
is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the village
at a general village election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed; or
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may proceed without providing the notice and
right of petition required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the Board of Trustees after notice and public hearing as
provided in §
94.07.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Trustees adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the village upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be
issued until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the
electors voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general village
election or at a special election called for the submission of such
proposition. The question of such purchase or erection of such a building or
buildings, as set forth in division (A) above, and the question of the issuance
of the negotiable bonds referred to in this division (D) may be submitted as
one question at a general village or special election if so ordered by
resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
village three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
village has been presented to the Board of Trustees. The number of voters
voting at the last regular village election prior to the presenting of the
petition shall be deemed the number of votes in the village for the purpose of
determining the sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the village when
defeated shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)  (1996 Code, § 8-106)
§ 94.07  ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the Board of Trustees has authorized the acquisition
by action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The village shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)  (1996 Code, § 8-107)
§ 94.08  ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village shall not purchase,
lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)  (1996 Code, § 8-108)
§ 94.09  PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the village shall not engage
in the construction of any public works involving architecture or engineering
unless the plans, specifications, and estimates have been prepared and the
construction has been observed by an architect, a professional engineer, or a
person under the direct supervision of an architect, professional engineer, or
those under the direct supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following activities:
      (1)   Any public works project with contemplated expenditures for the
completed project that do not exceed $40,000;
      (2)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (3)   Performance of professional services for itself if the village
appoints a Village Engineer or employs a full-time person licensed under the
Engineers and Architects Regulation Act who is in responsible charge of
architectural or engineering work;
      (4)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (5)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the village that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Water Resources;
      (6)   The work of employees and agents of the village performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance;
      (7)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant;
      (8)   The construction of municipal water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-
1212, the installation of pumps and pumping equipment into municipal water
wells, and the decommissioning of municipal water wells, unless such
construction, installation, or decommissioning is required by the village to be
designed or supervised by an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed
upon the village as a part of a public water supply; and
      (9)   Any other activities described in Neb. RS 81-3449 to 81-3453.
(Neb. RS 81-3423, 81-3445, 81-3449 through 81-3453)  (Ord. 98-35, passed 8-4-
1998)
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.20  KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the Board of
Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the village shall be cleaned within 24 hours
after the cessation of the storm.
(1996 Code, § 8-201)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21  MAINTENANCE.
   Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to said
lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair,
and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon. In the
event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands, abutting on any
street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any sidewalk
in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within the time and in the
manner as directed and required herein after having received due notice to do
so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by reason of the
defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the Board of Trustees
shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed or repaired and
assess the costs thereof against such property. In the event the property owner
is a nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the village shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)  (1996 Code, § 8-202)
§ 94.22  REPAIR.
   The Overseer of Streets may require sidewalks of the village to be repaired.
Notice to the owners of property upon which such sidewalks in disrepair are
located shall require within 48 hours from issuance of notice said owners to
make arrangements to have the sidewalk repaired. Said repairs shall be
completed within 21 days after issuance of said notice. No special assessment
shall be levied against the property unless said owner shall neglect or refuse
to repair within the time prescribed and in the event that such owner fails to
repair, the village shall cause the repairs to be made and assess the property
owner the expense of such repairs. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the village shall, before
levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The last
known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time
such required notice was first published.
(1996 Code, § 8-203)
§ 94.23  CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Overseer of Streets shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade, or elevation, the Overseer of Streets shall submit the application to
the Board of Trustees for determination as to whether the permit should be
granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause
to be constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade, or elevation
than so designated by the village. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed
on the established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade,
then on the grade or elevation indicated by the Overseer of Streets.
(1996 Code, § 8-204)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24  MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 to 17-521 and may be exercised without creating an
improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village
at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)  (1996 Code, § 8-205)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
STREETS
§ 94.35  WIDENING OF STREETS.
   The village shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend any street,
avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul, vacate,
or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area, or public way.
(Neb. RS 17-559)  (1996 Code, § 8-301)
§ 94.36  EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
(1996 Code, § 8-302)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.37  DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Overseer of Streets.
(1996 Code, § 8-303)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.38  MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
(1996 Code, § 8-304)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.39  HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
(1996 Code, § 8-305)  Penalty, see §
94.99
CURB AND GUTTER
§ 94.50  CUTTING CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Village
Engineer therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she shall
inform the Village Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it
shall be the Overseer of Streets duty to inspect the place of entry into the
paving, sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When cutting into any
paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under such rules
and regulations as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees or the Village
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he or she
shall inform the Village Engineer, who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be
discretionary with the Board of Trustees to order the Overseer of Streets,
under the supervision and inspection of the Village Engineer, to do the work of
cutting and closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who
obtained such permit. The Board of Trustees may consent to the work of cutting
and closing the paving to be done by the party holding such permit. Before any
permit is issued by the Board of Trustees, the applicant for such permit shall
deposit with the Village Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the Board of
Trustees for all paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on
a per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the village for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the
event the work is done by the village. In the event the village elects to
require the applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit
shall be retained by the village until the work is completed to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer. In addition to making the deposit above
set forth, the applicant shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to
the village with a good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the
Board of Trustees in a sum set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-567)  (1996 Code, § 8-401)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 8-501)
CHAPTER 95:  MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
Section
   
95.01   Operation and funding
   
95.02   Rules and regulations
   
95.03   Admission charge
   
95.04   Rentals
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The Board of
Trustees, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance,
and improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding
the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the village that is subject to taxation.
The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund and
shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the Village Treasurer. The Board of Trustees shall
have the power and authority to hire and supervise the swimming pool manager
and such employees as it may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper for its
efficient operation.
(Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951, 17-952)  (1996 Code, § 3-401)
§ 95.02  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power and authority to enact
bylaws, rules, and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming
pool and for the efficient management thereof.
   (B)   It may provide suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws,
rules, and regulations.
(Neb. RS 17-949)  (1996 Code, § 3-402)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The Board of Trustees may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the swimming
pool, make a reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the
municipal swimming pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the
Village Clerk and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the municipal
swimming pool for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes
of persons in a reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be
construed to permit or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color,
or national origin in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Neb. RS 17-949)  (1996 Code, § 3-403)
§ 95.04  RENTALS.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to rent the municipal
swimming pool to such organizations and other persons as it may in its
discretion see fit. The Board of Trustees shall prescribe rules and regulations
for such rentals and shall require an appropriate number of qualified
lifeguards to be in attendance during the rental period. Such fees and other
costs shall be on file at the office of the Village Clerk and posted in a
conspicuous place at the municipal swimming pool.
(Neb. RS 17-949)  (1996 Code, § 3-404)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 3-701)
CHAPTER 96:  LIBRARY
Section
   
96.01   Operation and funding
   
96.02   Rules and regulations
   
96.03   Books issued
   
96.04   Damaged and lost books
   
96.05   Book removal
   
96.06   Cost of use
   
96.07   Money collected
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01  OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and manages the village library through the Library Board.
The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management,
purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the library may each year levy a
tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual
valuation of all real estate and personal property within the village that is
subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the
Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the village library. The Library
Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Village Treasurer. The Board
shall have the power and authority to appoint the librarian and to hire such
other employees as it may deem necessary and may pass such other rules and
regulations for the operation of the library as may be proper for its efficient
operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the supervision and control
of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 51-201, 51-202, 51-211)  (1996 Code, § 3-501)
§ 96.02  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the
governing of the village library for the preservation and efficient management
thereof. They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties, and forfeitures
for injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for
failure to return a book.
   (B)   All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected in civil action
in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the said assessments.
(Neb. RS 51-205, 51-214)  (1996 Code, § 3-502)
§ 96.03  BOOKS ISSUED.
   The librarian shall keep, or cause to be kept, a register of all books
issued and returned at the time they shall so be issued and returned. None of
the books shall be detained more than 14 days without being renewed. No book
may be renewed more than two consecutive times by any person without the
special permission of the librarian or an authorized employee of the municipal
library.
(Neb. RS 51-211)  (1996 Code, § 3-503)
§ 96.04  DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the library
shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may
assess.
(Neb. RS 51-211)  (1996 Code, § 3-504)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05  BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the library, without the consent of
the librarian, or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing a
book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 51-211)  (1996 Code, § 3-505)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06  COST OF USE.
   The village library shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of the
village. The librarian may exclude from the use of the library and reading
rooms any person who shall willfully violate or refuse to comply with the rules
and regulations established for the government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-201, 51-212)  (1996 Code, § 3-506)
§ 96.07  MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over monthly by the
librarian to the Village Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue.
(Neb. RS 51-209)  (1996 Code, § 3-507)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 3-701)
CHAPTER 97:  CEMETERY
Section
   
97.01   Village cemetery; operation and funding
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01  VILLAGE CEMETERY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The village owns and manages the village cemetery through the Cemetery
Board. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, maintenance, and beautification of the cemetery may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the village
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Cemetery Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, money, stocks, bonds, or other valuable income-producing personal
property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the
cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Village
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise
such employees as it may deem necessary and to pass such rules and regulations
for the operation of the cemetery as may be proper for its efficient operation.
All actions by the Cemetery Board shall be under the supervision and control of
the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 12-401 through 12-403)  (1996 Code, § 3-601)
§ 97.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 3-701)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
113.   TOBACCO
CHAPTER 110:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
110.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
110.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
110.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
110.16   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
110.17   Licensee requirements
   
110.18   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
110.19   Licensed premises; inspections
   
110.20   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
110.21   Catering licenses
   
110.22   Display of license
   
110.23   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
110.24   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
110.25   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
110.40   Location
   
110.41   Access to dwellings
   
110.42   Sanitary conditions
   
110.43   Hours of sale
   
110.44   Credit sales prohibited
   
110.45   Original package required
   
110.46   Minor’s presence restricted
   
110.47   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
§ 110.02  SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03  CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant,
café, or club or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a
license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division (B) does
not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of
alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-
6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04  REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as may be
necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury. The effort at placement shall
be deemed reasonable if the officer contacts such facilities or doctor which
have previously represented a willingness to accept and treat such individuals
and which regularly do accept such individuals. If these efforts are
unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer may then place the intoxicated
person in civil protective custody, except that civil protective custody shall
be used only as long as is necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury, and
under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121)  Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 110.15  MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.16  ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.17  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, or boat licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, Articles 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11,
or 12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another
state, except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   (a)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant
whose spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor
license. Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if
the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public
interest will not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be
prima facie evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor
license, the applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license.
         (b)   This prima facie evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to
the satisfaction of the Commission:
            1.   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            2.   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 110.18  LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may
make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions, and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is being violated, and
at that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
110.20, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating
to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to
the Commission within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of
appeal with the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the
manner provided for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133; and
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm,
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 110.19  LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   The Board of Trustees shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 110.20  LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than 1 year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village, one time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and each
bottle club license within the village, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk by
3 or more residents of the village on or before February 10, or August 10 for
Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing to determine
whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the conclusion of
any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may request a
licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 110.21  CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
110.18.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the district court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 110.22  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.23  OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any village
ordinance, that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be
subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.24  LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any village ordinance
by any officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee,
if the act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge,
or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.25  CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the Board of Trustees stating that any retail licensee or bottle club
licensee subject to the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in
the form prescribed by the Board of Trustees and shall be signed and sworn to
by the parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision,
rule, or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon
which belief is based. If the Board of Trustees is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
Board of Trustees within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by
resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for
purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as provided in
Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 110.40  LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for indigent persons
or for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by Neb. RS 53-177.01, no alcoholic liquor,
other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet
from the campus of any college or university within the village, and no bottle
club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of any college, except
that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   State Commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 110.41  ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.42  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor
establishment that is not in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Toilet facilities shall be adequate and convenient for customers and
patrons.
   (C)   The licensed premises shall be subject to any health inspections the
Board of Trustees or the village police may make or cause to be made.
   (D)   All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed in part from the
standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning the sanitary
conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the application for or
renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 110.43  HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licenses establishment.
      ON SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail by the drink for consumption
on the premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or his, her or
their agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the village except during
the hours provided herein:
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)  
   Secular days                        
      Off sale                     6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      On sale                      6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays
      Off sale                     12:00 noon to 1:00 a.m.
      On sale                      12:00 noon to 2:00 a.m.
Beer and Wine
   Secular days
      Off sale                     6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
      On sale                      6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   Sundays
      Off sale                     12:00 noon to 1:00 a.m.
      On sale                      12:00 noon to 2:00 a.m.
Provided that such limitations shall not apply after 12:00 noon on Sunday to a
licensee which is a nonprofit corporation holding a Class C license or a Class
I license
 
(Neb. RS 53-179)  (1996 Code, § 10-117)  (Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-6-2010) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.44  CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.45  ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or
other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of
alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.46  MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 110.47  KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, or military identification, if the military
identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with the
purchaser’s signature. This record shall be on a form prescribed by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the
retail establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months.
The records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by
any law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other
reasonable time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) with an altered or removed
keg identification number after the container has been taken from the licensed
premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the licensed
premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Posted notice; solicitors to comply
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be $20.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(1996 Code, § 10-201)  (Res. 2000-04, passed 5-2-2000)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Village Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare.
   (C)   In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 111.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Village Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Board of Trustees. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the Board of Trustees, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees
shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall
be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09  POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 111.10  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 111.11  POSTED NOTICE; SOLICITORS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112:  OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
   
112.01   Levies authorized
   
112.02   Collection dates
   
112.03   Certificates
   
112.04   Failure to pay
§ 112.01  LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The village shall have power to raise revenue by levying and
collecting a license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the
village and regulate such occupation or business by ordinance. Any occupation
tax imposed pursuant to this section shall make a reasonable classification of
businesses, users of space, or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing
such tax, except that no occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction
which is subject to tax under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-
4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602, or 77-4008 or which is exempt from tax under Neb. RS
77-2704.24. The occupation tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb.
RS 18-1208, except that Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax
subject to Neb. RS 86-704. All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the
classes upon which they are imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and
entertainments shall be exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and
other musical entertainments given exclusively by the citizens of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall have authority, by ordinance, to
impose an occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company, or association, doing business in the village, for the
use, support, and benefit of volunteer fire departments, regularly organized
under the laws of the state regulating the same. The Village Clerk shall
collect with diligence the occupation tax so imposed.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the tax, the Clerk shall pay over the proceeds
thereof to the Village Treasurer who shall credit the same to a fund to be
known as special occupation tax fund for benefit of the Volunteer Fire
Department.
      (3)   Upon proper claim filed by the Chief of the Fire Department and
allowed by the Board, the Treasurer shall pay over the proceeds of the tax in
the fund from time to time for the use of the Fire Department, as hereinbefore
provided.
(Neb. RS 35-106)
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm,
or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing
business within the corporate limits of the village in any sum which exceeds
two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to
obtain such license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see Neb. RS 18-1208
§ 112.02  COLLECTION DATES.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the Board of Trustees shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
that any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due
and payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by
any person to the Village Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly
dated, specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue
collected shall be deposited into the General Fund by the Village Treasurer
except as otherwise specifically provided. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate
account of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
§ 112.03  CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 112.04  FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the village shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount
due. All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
CHAPTER 113:  TOBACCO
Section
   
113.01   License to sell; issuance
   
113.02   License application
   
113.03   License term; fees
   
113.04   Rights of licensee
   
113.05   Disposition of fees
   
113.06   Transfer of license
   
113.07   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
§ 113.01  LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, cigarettes, cigarette material,
vapor products, or alternative nicotine products to persons over the age of 18
years shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability
companies, and corporations by the Village Clerk upon application duly made as
provided in §
113.02.
(Neb. RS 28-1421)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 113.02  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 to 28-1429 shall file with the Village
Clerk a written application stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company, or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with the
application the amount of the license fee provided in §
113.03.
   (B)   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the
applicant’s Social Security number.
(Neb. RS 28-1422)  (1996 Code, § 10-601)  (Ord. 98-37, passed 8-4-1998)
§ 113.03  LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, and packages of tobacco in any form, at wholesale, shall pay a
license fee of $100, and if such combined annual sales amount to less than
150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler’s license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if applicant is
a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability company, by a
member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an officer or manager
thereof, that in the past such wholesaler’s combined sales of cigars, packages
of cigarettes, and packages of tobacco in every form have not exceeded in the
aggregate 150,000 annually and that such sales will not exceed such aggregate
amount for the current year for which the license is to issue. Any person
swearing falsely in such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense, and such
wholesaler’s license shall be revoked until the full license fee of $100 is
paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be one- half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423)  (1996 Code, § 10-601)  (Ord. 98-37, passed 8-4-1998) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04  RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license, provided for in §§
113.01 and
113.02 when issued, shall authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, cigarettes,
cigarette material, vapor products, or alternative nicotine products by the
licensee and employees, to persons over the age of 18 years, at the place of
business described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the
license is forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-
1425.
(Neb. RS 28-1424)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate.
(Neb. RS 28-1425)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 18 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 113.05  DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the Village Clerk to the treasurer of the school fund for
the village.
(Neb. RS 28-1426)
§ 113.06  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the Village Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the
purchaser. In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the
Village Clerk may transfer such license to the new location.
(Neb. RS 28-1428)
§ 113.07  REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425, no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture.
(Neb. RS 28-1429)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130:  PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Electrical interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
§ 130.01  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
$500 or more but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500 or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02  CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, to enter or remain in
any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(1) above.
      (3)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04  INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or growing on any
land belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the
corporate limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any
tree, except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application
to the Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of
Trustees in accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall
constitute the only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05  POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks, or public
grounds of the village for signs, signposts, or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
§ 131.01  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, or using obscene or profane language in
the streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
(1996 Code, § 6-306)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02  STREET GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick
or throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the village
streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the Board of
Trustees from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
§ 131.03  OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
(1996 Code, § 6-307)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.04  OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
§ 132.01  IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02  IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03  REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or village;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or this village.
(Neb. RS 28-903)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04  RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05  OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference, or
obstacle, he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs, or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog owned
or controlled by the state or any county, city, or village for the purpose of
assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06  INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07  FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or any
personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907)  (Ord. 98-33, passed 8-4-1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook, or
stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Littering
   
133.06   Raising or producing stagnant water
   
133.07   Weeds, litter, stagnant water
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by minors
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to minors
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain tobacco
   
133.23   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
133.24   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
133.25   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Weapons Offenses
   
133.40   Discharge of firearms
   
133.41   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01  MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues, and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this village.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using, or maintaining of any building,
structure, or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment,
manufacture, or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations,
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health,
comfort, or property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding,
without legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor, or
collection of water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of
any watercourse, stream, or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse
from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the
obstructing or encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any
of the public highways or streets or alleys of the village, shall be deemed
nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining, or
causing any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section and in
every such case the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed
in any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321)  (1996 Code, § 6-301)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02  APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
(1996 Code, § 6-302)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.03  PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK, OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof, or other filthy
substance into any well, or into any spring, brook, or branch of running water,
of which use is made for domestic purposes, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04  PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street, or alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 133.05  LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06  RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue, or keep up any dam or other
obstruction in any river or stream of water in the village and thereby raise an
artificial pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly
injurious to the public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense and the
court shall, moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07  WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the village shall be drained or filled
so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the village
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and alleys free
of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the village is prohibited; provided, that grass, leaves,
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, by guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the village or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the village may have such work done. The costs and expenses of any
such work shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the village may
either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off. discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but not be limited to: bindweed (convolvulus arvensis);
puncture vine (tribulus terrestris); leafy spurge (euphorbia esula); Canada
thistle (cirsium arvense); perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba); Russian
knapweed (centaurea picris); Johnson grass (sorghum halepense); nodding or musk
thistle; quack grass (agropyron repens); perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis); horse nettle (solanum carolinense); bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum); buckthorn (rhamnus sp.) (tourn); hemp plant (canabis sativa); and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720)  (1996 Code, § 6-303)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20  USE OF TOBACCO BY MINORS.
   Whoever, being a minor under the age of 18 years, shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use vapor products or alternative nicotine products, or use tobacco in
any form whatever, in this village, shall be guilty of an offense. Any minor
charged with a violation of this section may be free from prosecution if he or
she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the person or persons selling or
giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars, vapor products, alternative nicotine
products, or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.21  SALE OF TOBACCO TO MINORS.
   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigarettes or cigarette paper, vapor products, or alternative
nicotine products, to any minor under 18 years of age is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1419)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22  MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Any person under the age of 18 years who shall obtain cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes, or cigarette material, vapor products, or alternative nicotine
products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he or she is of the age
of 18 years or over, is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.23  MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to
obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any other method,
in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
§ 133.24  MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53- 103.42 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms “alcoholic liquor”, “consume”, “minor”, “sale”, and
“to sell”.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in §
110.15 of this code of ordinances, no minor may sell, dispense, consume, or
have in his or her possession or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any
tavern or in any other place, including public streets, alleys, roads, or
highways, upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof, or
inside any vehicle while in or on any other place, including, but not limited
to, the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, or upon property owned by
the state or any subdivision thereof, except that a minor may consume, possess,
or have physical control of alcoholic liquor as a part of a bona fide religious
rite, ritual, or ceremony or in his or her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 through 53-409
§ 133.25  DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced; and
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this village.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
110.03 of this code of ordinances or division (D) below, it is unlawful for any
person to consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this village; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this village.
   (D)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but not
drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party service
as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the state Public
Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code, Chapter 75, Article 3. Such
passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume
alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or
on any highway in this village if:
      (1)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)  Penalty, see §
10.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.40  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the village, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of Trustees.
(1996 Code, § 6-304)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.41  SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
(1996 Code, § 6-305)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Public indecency
   
134.03   Gambling
§ 134.01  PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers, or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration,
as those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse, in exchange for money or other thing of value, commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above is:
      (1)   A person engaging in those acts as a direct result of being a
trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830, such person shall be immune
from prosecution for a prostitution offense; or
      (2)   A person under 18 years of age, such person shall be immune from
prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section and shall be subject
to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-248 and further disposition under the
Nebraska Juvenile Code. A law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18
years of age into custody under this section shall immediately report an
allegation of a violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the Department of Health and
Human Services which shall commence an investigation within 24 hours under the
Child Protection and Family Safety Act.
(Neb. RS 28-801)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   A person, 18 years of age or over, commits the offense of public indecency
if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to perform, in
a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by
members of the public:
   (A)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
   (B)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront or
alarm any person; or
   (C)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the same
or opposite sex.
(Neb. RS 28-806)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03  GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day; or
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   This division (C) shall not apply to any coin-operated mechanical
gaming device, computer gaming device, electronic gaming device, or video
gaming device which has the capability of awarding free games, which is
intended to be played and is in fact played for amusement only, and which may
allow the player the right to replay such gaming device at no additional cost,
which right to replay shall not be considered money or property, except that
such mechanical game:
         (a)   Can be discharged of accumulated free replays only by
reactivating the game for one additional play for each accumulated free replay;
and
         (b)   Makes no permanent record directly or indirectly of free replays
so awarded.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division (C), any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal gambling device tax stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Public Law 89-44, are hereby declared to be
illegal and excluded from the exemption granted in this division (C).
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this
village and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances, or
electronic communication devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833 or any equipment,
components, peripherals, software, hardware, or accessories related to
electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used, or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse race meetings; or
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act,
or Neb. RS 9-701.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits; Mobile and Manufactured Homes
   
150.01   Building permits
   
150.02   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.03   Limitation
   
150.04   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
150.05   Plans, specifications, plats, and reports; municipal officials; duty
   
150.06   Building permits; mobile homes; expiration thereof
   
150.07   Zoning regulations; manufactured homes; standards
Building Codes
   
150.20   Building Code; adopted by reference; revisions
   
150.21   Residential Code; adopted by reference; revisions
   
150.22   International Property Maintenance Code; adopted by reference;
revisions
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.35   Definition
   
150.36   Prohibition
   
150.37   Determination and notice
   
150.38   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.39   Emergency
   
150.40   Special assessments
Vacant Buildings
   
150.55   Vacant buildings
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING PERMITS; MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 150.01  BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
repair, enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the
same to be done, shall file with the Village Clerk an application for a
building permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished
by the Village Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth
the legal description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is
to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions,
the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and any
other such information as may be requested thereon. In addition, the
application for building permit shall be accompanied by a survey showing all
property corners performed by a surveyor licensed by the State of Nebraska
unless said requirement for a survey is waived by the Building Permit
Committee. The application, plans, survey, and specifications so filed with the
Village Clerk shall be checked and examined by the Building Permit Committee,
and if they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter
and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the Building Permit Committee
shall issue said applicant a permit upon the payment of the permit fee set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees. Whenever there is a discrepancy between
permit application procedures contained herein and those contained in any
building code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall
govern. For the purpose of this section, the estimated cost shall include, but
not be limited to, the actual costs of construction, including labor and
materials, the acquisition cost, as well as the cost of moving any building or
structure, and the cost of any necessary excavation and grading incurred in
connection with the project. All applications shall be filed with the Village
Clerk 14 days prior to the commencement of any work.
   (B)   Any person desiring to relocate any structure over 200 square feet,
including a mobile home, which shall travel upon the streets of the village
shall be required to file a corporate surety bond in the amount of $5,000
conditioned for the payment of any damages sustained by the village resulting
from the moving of the structure or mobile home. No permit shall be issued
until the bond has been filed.
(Neb. RS 17-550, 17-1001)  (1996 Code, § 9-101)  (Ord. 98-9, passed 7-7-1998;
Ord. 00-23, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 150.02  DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the village’s jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500
or more, a duplicate of the permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)  (1996 Code, § 9-102)
§ 150.03  LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04  EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant, or lessee causing the construction, demolition, or moving
of any building or improvement within the village shall protect all
excavations, exposures, open basements, building materials, and debris by
suitable barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The
failure, neglect, or refusal of the owner, tenant, or lessee to erect and
maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the
Building Inspector or other village law enforcement authority may stop all work
upon the buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05  PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, PLATS, AND REPORTS; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
   (A)   A village official charged with the duty or responsibility of
accepting or approving plans, specifications, plats, and reports shall not
accept or approve plans, specifications, plats, or reports which have not been
prepared in accordance with the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act.
(Neb. RS 81-3447)
   (B)   A village official charged with the duty or responsibility of
accepting or approving plans, specifications, geological maps, and reports
shall not accept or approve plans, specifications, geological maps, or reports
which have not been prepared in accordance with the Geologists Regulation Act.
(1996 Code, § 9-103)  (Ord. 98-36, passed 8-4-1998; Ord. 99-8, passed 6-1-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Geologist license not required for certain municipal work and other
specified activities, see Neb. RS 81-3541
   Similar exemptions under the Engineers and Architects Regulation Act, see 
Neb. RS 81-3449 and 81-3453
§ 150.06  BUILDING PERMITS; MOBILE HOMES; EXPIRATION THEREOF.
   (A)   Any person desiring to relocate any mobile home within the village
limits and zoning jurisdiction shall file with the Village Clerk, an
application for a building permit prior to relocating said mobile home. The
application shall be in writing and on a form to be furnished by the Village
Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal
description of the real estate upon which the mobile home is to be relocated,
the nature of the use or occupancy of said mobile home, the principal
dimensions, and such other information as may be requested thereon.
   (B)   No mobile home may be relocated within the village limits or municipal
zoning jurisdiction unless the mobile home shall meet the following minimum
requirements:
      (1)   Be at least 700 square feet according to manufacturer’s dimensions;
      (2)   Be completely air- and water-tight, i.e., no broken windows, doors,
or siding;
      (3)   All requirements set forth in § 1112.02(5), (6), and (7) of the
village’s Zoning Ordinance (as adopted by reference in
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances) regarding foundation, skirting, and
anchor provisions;
      (4)   Be placed on real estate properly zoned for mobile home use;
      (5)   Have separate water and sewer service lines installed. The tapping
fee thereof for each service shall be paid in advance; and
      (6)   That, in the opinion of the Board of Health, the mobile home will
not constitute a nuisance to the neighboring property owners.
   (C)   In the event all of the above requirements are satisfied, the Village
Clerk shall approve the building permit. In the event the building permit is
denied, the mobile home shall not be relocated within the village, including
the zoning jurisdictional limits. Any person desiring to appeal the decision to
deny a building permit may appeal to the Board of Trustees by filing a written
notice of appeal thereof within ten days from the date of denial of the
building permit. The fee for the mobile home building permit shall be $25.
   (D)   (1)   In the event all of the above requirements are satisfied, the
Building Permit Committee, as appointed by the Village Board Chairperson, shall
approve the building permit.
      (2)   In the event the building permit is denied, the mobile home shall
not be relocated within the village, including the zoning jurisdictional
limits.
      (3)   Any person desiring to appeal the decision to deny a building
permit may appeal to the Board of Trustees by filing a written notice of appeal
thereof within ten days from the date of denial of the building permit.
      (4)   The fee for the mobile home building permit shall be $25.
   (E)   Before a permit may be issued, the bond as required by §
150.01, shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(1996 Code, § 9-101.01)
   (F)   (1)   In the event that the work described in any building permit
issued for a mobile home has not been substantially completed within 90 days
from the date of the issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be canceled
and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together
with notice that further work described in said canceled building permit shall
not proceed.
      (2)   The owner shall then be required to remove the mobile home from the
village within ten days of receipt of written notice from the village.
(1996 Code, § 9-101.02)  (Ord. 97-7, passed 7-1-1997; Ord. 99-4, passed 4-6-
1999; Ord. 00-25, passed  10-16-2000; Ord. 00-26, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 150.07  ZONING REGULATIONS; MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational
Vehicles, the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act, or the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings.
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation.
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections.
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located.
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)   Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards.
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock.
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with the
National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. §§ 3280
et seq. promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development; or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS § 71-1557, bearing a
seal in accordance with the Nebraska Uniform Standards for Modular Housing
Units Act.
(Neb. RS 19-902)  (Ord. 99-9, passed 6-1-1999)
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.20  BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; REVISIONS.
   (A)   The International Building Code, latest edition, including Appendix
Chapters A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, and J, as published by the International
Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Building Code of this municipality
for establishing the minimum regulations governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures, providing the standards
for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions
essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation
and use, and providing for condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use and for the demolition of such buildings and
structures. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions,
and terms of the Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions,
deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below. The Building
Code, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference in
addition to all amended editions as through printed in full herein insofar as
such code does not conflict with the statutes of the State of Nebraska. One
copy of the Building Code is on file at the office of the Village Clerk and is
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the
Building Code shall be controlling throughout the village and throughout its
zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised.
      Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Building
Code of the Village of Shelby, Nebraska, hereinafter referred to as “this
code”.
(Ord. 2015-20, passed 12-8-2015)
§ 150.21  RESIDENTIAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; REVISIONS.
   (A)   The International Residential Code, latest edition, including Appendix
Chapters A, B, C, D, E, F, G ,H, I, J, K, and L as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Residential Code, of
this municipality for regulating and controlling the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to, use, or maintenance of one- and two-
family dwellings and townhouses not more than three stories in height in the
municipality and providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefore. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions,
and terms of the Residential Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
The Residential Code, printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated
by reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full
herein insofar as such code does not conflict with the statutes of the State of
Nebraska. One copy of the Residential Code is on file at the office of the
Village Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
The provisions of the Residential Code shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised.
      Section R101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the Residential
Code for One-and Two-Family Dwellings of the Village of Shelby, Nebraska, and
shall be cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
      Section R301.2 Climatic and geographic design criteria. Buildings shall
be constructed in accordance with the provisions of this code as limited by the
provisions of this section. Additional criteria shall be established by the
local jurisdiction and set forth in Table R301.2(l).
      Section P2603.6.1 Sewer depth. Buildings sewers that connect to private
sewage disposal systems shall be a minimum of thirty-six (36") inches (mm)
below finished grade at the point of septic tank connection. Building sewers
shall be a minimum of thirty-six (36") inches (mm) below grade.
      Section P3103.1 Roof extension. All open vent pipes which extend through
a roof shall be terminated at least ten (10") inches above the roof except that
where a roof is to be used for any purpose other than weather protection; the
vent extensions shall be run at least 7 feet (2,134 mm) above the roof.
(Ord. 2015-20, passed 12-8-2015)
§ 150.22  INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE;
REVISIONS.
   (A)   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, as
published by the International Code Council be and is hereby adopted as the
Property Maintenance Code of the village for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things in conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such
existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations
provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the offices of the village are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
a part hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions, and changes, if any described in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised.
      Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property
Maintenance Code of the Village of Shelby, Nebraska, hereinafter referred to as
“this code”.
      Section 103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be set
forth by resolution of the Village of Shelby Board of Trustees.
      Section 302.4 Weeds.
      All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or
plant growth in excess of twelve inches (12"). All noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens.
      Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and
destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to
prosecution in accordance with Section 106.3 and as prescribed by the authority
having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any
duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall
be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
      Section 304.14 Insect Screens.
      During the date from March 1 to November 1 every door, window and other
outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation
areas, food service areas or any areas where products to be included or
utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or
stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than
16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and every screen door used for insect
control shall have a self-closing device in good working condition.
      EXCEPTION: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such
as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
      602.3 Heat Supply.
      Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases or lets one or
more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either expressed or implied, to
furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from
October 1 through May 1 to maintain a temperature of not less than 68°F (20°C)
in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms.
      EXCEPTIONS:
      1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in the Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code.
      2.   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-1°C)
a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
      602.4 Occupiable work spaces.
      Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied with heat during the
period October 1 through May 1 to maintain a temperature of not less than 65°F
(18°C) during the period the spaces are occupied.
      EXCEPTIONS:
      1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions.
      2.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
(Ord. 2015-22, passed 12-8-2015)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.35  DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence, or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(1996 Code, § 9-201)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
(1996 Code, § 9-202)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.37  DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
      “To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises), of
the premises known and described as _________________________________.
      “You are hereby notified that _______________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by ________________________________.
The causes for this decision are ________________________ (here insert the
facts as to the dangerous condition).
      “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days
from the date of receipt of this notice or the village will proceed to do so.
Appeal of this determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as
the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Village Clerk within ten days from the
date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
(1996 Code, § 9-203)
§ 150.38  APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting as the
Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within ten days
from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board of
Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by
certified mail.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the Board of
Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the property
owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during
which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall at
once inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.39  EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.40  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate,
or demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   (a)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located; and
         (b)   Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and
shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722)
VACANT BUILDINGS
§ 150.55  VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The owner of any building that shall become vacant shall, within 30
days after the building becomes vacant or after the effective date of this
section, whichever is later, file a registration statement for each such
building with the County Sheriff on a form provided by the County Sheriff’s
Department for that purpose. The registration form shall remain valid for one
year after the date of registration. The owner shall be required to renew the
registration on an annual basis as long as the building remains vacant. The
owner shall notify the Sheriff’s Office within 30 days of any change in the
registration information by filing an amended registration statement provided
by the County Sheriff.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to other information required by the County Sheriff,
the registration statement shall include the name, street address, and
telephone number of a person 21 years of age or older, designated by the owner
or owners as an authorized agent. The authorized agent must maintain an office
or residence in the county.
      (2)   The owner or owners who meet the requirements of this section as to
the location of said office or residence may designate himself or herself as
the authorized agent. By designating an authorized agent under the provisions
of this section, the owner or owners are empowering the authorized agent to
receive any and all notices of code violations, court proceedings, or
administrative proceedings concerning the registered vacant building by service
of the notice or process on the authorized agent.
      (3)   Any owner or owners who have designated an authorized agent under
the provisions of this section shall be deemed to consent to the continuation
of the agent’s designation for the purpose of this section until the owner or
owners notify the County Sheriff of any change or until the owner or owners
file a new annual registration statement designating a different authorized
agent. Any owner or owners who fail to register a vacant building or fail to
designate an authorized agent under the provisions of this section shall
further be deemed to consent to receive, by posting at the building, any and
all code violations and all administrative proceedings building
   [missing material]
the village shall proceed under the nuisance sections of this code of
ordinances to have the building demolished by the village with the cost of said
demolition to be paid for under the nuisance sections by the owner or owners.
(Ord. 07-02, passed - -2007)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 9-301)
CHAPTER 151:  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adopted by reference
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Development Plan for the village, as prepared by the Polk County
Joint Planning Commission, has been adopted by resolution on May 5, 1981. Three
copies of the adopted plan shall be kept on file with the Village Clerk and
available for inspection by any member of the public during office hours.
(1996 Code, § 11-101)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 11-401)
CHAPTER 152:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide for harmonious development of the village and its environs; for
the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the Comprehensive Plan; for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light, and air; for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, or prosperity; to ensure conformance
of subdivision plans with the capital improvement program of the village; and
to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdividers and the Planning
Commission and Board of Trustees, the subdivision regulations for the village,
as prepared by the Polk County Joint Planning Commission, and published in
pamphlet form, have been adopted by the Board of Trustees on May 5, 1981. Three
copies of the adopted subdivision regulations shall be kept on file with the
Village Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public during
office hours.
(1996 Code, § 11-301)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 11-401)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the
community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements, the zoning regulations for the village,
as prepared by the Polk County Joint Planning Commission, and published in
pamphlet form, have been adopted by the Board of Trustees on May 5, 1981. Three
copies of the adopted zoning regulations shall be kept on file with the Village
Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public during office
hours.
(1996 Code, § 11-201)  (Ord. 99-15, passed 11-2-1999; Ord. 96-14, passed 11-5-
1996; Ord. 98-8, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 98-10, passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 98-11,
passed 7-7-1998; Ord. 00-24, passed 10-16-2000; Ord. 2016-30, passed 12-13-
2016)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(1996 Code, § 11-401)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   AGREEMENTS
      
V.   ZONING
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord./ Date Passed/Code  Description
Res.  Section
                        The Board of Trustees has granted to Peoples Natural Gas Company, Inc. the
                        authority to construct, maintain, and operate a gas transmission and
-     1996 Code, § 10- distribution system within the village. Actual details of the agreement, and
      301               the present gas rates, charges, and fees are available at the Village Clerk’s
                        office.
                        (Neb. RS 17-528.02)
                        The Board of Trustees has granted to the Nebraska Public Power District the
                        authority to maintain and operate the light and power system in the village for
      1996 Code, § 10- the purpose of furnishing electric energy to the village, and fixing the
-     302               charges for such services. Actual details of the agreement and the present
                        electrical rates, charges, and fees are available at the Village Clerk’s
                        office.
                        (Neb. RS 17-528.03)
                        The Board of Trustees has granted to Douglas Cable the authority to construct,
-     1996 Code, § 10- operate, and maintain a community antenna television system in the village.
      303               Actual details of the agreement and the charges, rates, and fees are available
                        at the Village Clerk’s office.
96-6  5-24-1996         Renewing the cable television franchise with Galaxy Telecom, L.P. to expire on
                        November 4, 2006.
Res.                    Consenting to the assignment of the cable franchise from Cable Nebraska, L.L.C.
2014- 2-3-2014          to Eagle Communications, Inc.
02
                       
 
TABLE II:  ANNEXATIONS
 
 
Ord./Res. Date Passed/Code Section Description
                                   Correcting the municipal limits of the
96-1      1-8-1996                 village due to an incorrect filing of an
                                   annexation.
                                   Annexing a part of the southeast quarter of
                                   the southwest quarter of Section 10, and the
98-39     10-6-1998                northeast quarter of the northwest quarter
                                   of Section 15, both in Township 14, North
                                   Range 1, west of the sixth P.M.
                                  
 
TABLE III:  PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
 
      Date
Ord./ Passed/ Description
Res.  Code
      Section
Res.  8-5-    Authorizing the sale of Lot 1, Block 1, Wagner’s Addition that is owned by the
97-2  1997    village.
97-35 9-11-   Directing the sale of Lot 1, Block 1, Wagner’s Addition that is owned by the
      1997    village to Terry L. and Martine C. Bemis.
Res.  3- -    Directing the sale of real estate originally part donated to the Library Board
2009- 2009    and part purchased with library funds.
08
2014- 6-2-    Vacating the public alley platted in Burritt’s Addition.
15    2014
             
 
TABLE IV:  AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. Date Passed/Code Section Description
Ord./Res.    Date Passed/Code Section Description
                                      Ratifying the interlocal cooperation
                                      agreement entered into by the Library
Res. 98-3    - -                      Boards of The Cities of Stromberg and
                                      Osceola and the Villages of Shelby and
                                      Polk on March 26, 1998.
                                      Allowing the Villages of Benedict and
                                      Benedict, Nebraska to become members of
Res. 97-1    6-3-1997                 the interlocal agreement entered into by
                                      the City of Stromberg and the Villages of
                                      Shelby, Polk, and Gresham, dated August
                                      21, 1996.
                                      Upon passage of a resolution by the
Res. 98-4    8-4-1998                 Village of Hampton, that said village
                                      shall become a member of the interlocal
                                      agreement dated August 21, 1996.
                                      Upon passage of a resolution by the City
Res. 2006-05 5-9-2006                 of Osceola, that said city shall become a
                                      member of the interlocal agreement dated
                                      August 21, 1996.
                                      Upon passage of a resolution by the City
Res. 2006-06 5-9-2006                 of Osceola, that said city shall become a
                                      member of the interlocal agreement dated
                                      August 21, 1996.
                                      Resolving that the village becomes a
Res. 2012-16 12-6-2012                party to the Nebraska Cooperative
                                      Government Interlocal Agreement.
                                      Approving the execution of an agreement
Res. 2018-30 6-12-2018                with the Nebraska Department of Roads for
                                      project No. NH-81-2 (146).
                                     
 
TABLE V:  ZONING
 
      Date
Ord./ Passed/ Description
Res.  Code
      Section
97-1  2-4-    Changing Lots 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, and 24, Block 1, Washington
      1997    Heights Addition from Residential (RM) to Mobile Home District (SMH).
Res.  3-11-   Adopting an official zoning map due to a number of amendments.
98-2  1998
99-1  1-5-    Rezoning various tracts of land from Agricultural Transition District
      1999    (AGT) to Business Highway Commercial (BHC).
2009- 11-3-   Modifying the official zoning map.
08    2009
01-02 4- -    Rezoning Lots 2, 3, and 4, Block 1, Hastert’s Addition from Central
      2001    Commercial District (BCC) to Residential Medium District (RM).
             
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1996 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section              Code Section
9-701                        134.03
10-101 through 10-143        35.11
11-101                       30.02
11-104                       30.01
11-105                       30.01
11-109                       30.01
11-110                       30.01
11-111                       30.01
11-112                       30.01
11-113                       30.01
11-114                       30.01
11-115                       30.01
11-116                       30.01
11-117                       30.01
11-118                       30.01
12-401 through 12-403        33.05,
                             97.01
13-403                       94.08
13-504                       35.26
13-505                       35.26
13-506                       35.27
13-507                       35.27
13-508                       35.27,
                             35.49
13-509                       35.49
13-606                       35.03
13-609                       35.14
13-903                       35.04
13-1802                      32.06
                             54.03,
13-2020                      54.04,
                             54.07
16-318(3)                    32.04
16-714 through 16-716        35.09
17-202                       31.02,
                             34.03
17-203                       31.02,
                             34.03
17-204                       30.26,
                             31.01
17-205                       30.26
17-207                       10.99,
                             31.03
                             32.01,
17-208                       33.04,
                             90.01,
                             90.02
                             30.40,
17-209.02                    31.02,
                             32.02
17-210                       31.01
17-405                       32.07
17-502                       30.03
17-503                       94.04
17-503.01                    94.04
17-505                       10.99,
                             31.15
17-509 to 17-521             94.24
17-522                       94.24
17-524                       94.24
17-525                       112.01
17-526                       92.016,
                             92.020
17-528.02                    TSO I
17-528.03                    TSO I
17-531                       51.01
17-534                       51.01
17-536                       51.14
                             51.03,
                             51.06,
                             51.08,
17-537                       51.10,
                             51.12,
                             51.16,
                             51.17
17-539                       51.15
17-540                       35.10,
                             51.09
17-541                       32.01
                             51.07,
17-542                       51.10,
                             52.07
17-550                       93.01,
                             150.01
                             91.01,
17-555                       94.03,
                             131.02—
                             131.04
                             93.35,
17-556                       131.01,
                             133.40
17-557                       131.02,
                             131.03
17-557.01                    94.05,
                             94.21
17-559                       94.35
17-563                       133.07
17-567                       94.02,
                             94.50
17-568.01                    35.02,
                             32.07
17-568.02                    35.02
17-601.01                    34.08
17-601.02                    34.08
17-601.03                    34.08
17-602                       34.09
17-604                       30.01,
                             30.40
17-605                       32.03
17-606                       32.04
17-606(2)                    32.04
17-607                       35.08
17-608                       35.10
17-609                       35.10
17-610                       32.05
17-611                       30.40
17-612                       30.40
                             31.18,
17-613                       31.21—
                             31.23,
                             35.02
                             10.15,
17-614                       31.19,
                             31.20,
                             31.24
17-615                       31.22
17-616                       31.20
17-701                       35.25
17-702                       35.07,
                             35.51
17-706                       35.30
17-708                       35.01
17-709                       35.05
17-710                       35.06
17-711                       35.05
17-714                       35.04
17-715                       35.04
17-720                       35.09
17-901                       52.03
17-902                       52.03
17-919                       32.07
17-920                       131.04
17-925.01                    52.01
17-925.02                    52.10
17-948                       95.01
17-949                       95.02—
                             95.04
17-951                       95.01
17-952                       95.01
17-953                       94.06
17-953.01                    94.06
17-954                       94.06
17-1001                      150.01
18-132                       10.16
18-305 through 18-312        30.41
18-412.01                    35.02
18-503                       52.04—
                             52.07
18-1001 to 18-1006           94.04
18-1208                      112.01
18-1214                      35.52
18-1216                      35.13
18-1701                      32.03
                             10.99,
                             31.03,
                             54.02,
18-1720                      91.05,
                             130.03,
                             133.02,
                             133.07
18-1722                      10.99,
                             150.40
18-1722.01                   150.37
18-1736                      72.15
                             72.15,
18-1737                      72.16,
                             72.23
18-1741.01                   72.17,
                             72.24
18-1741.04                   72.24
18-1741.06                   72.24
18-1743                      150.02
18-1755                      94.07
18-1756                      35.02
18-1801 through 18-1805      35.11
18-2804                      35.03
18-3301                      32.08
19-901 et seq.               33.03
19-901                       33.03
19-901 to 19-905             33.03
19-901 to 19-914             33.03
19-901 to 19-915             33.03
19-902                       150.07
19-903 to 19-904.01          33.03
19-907                       33.03
19-908                       33.02,
                             33.03
19-909                       33.03
19-910                       33.03
19-911                       33.03
19-912                       33.03
19-912.01                    33.03
19-925 through 19-929        33.02
19-929                       33.02
19-929(3)                    33.03
19-1101                      32.04
19-1102                      32.03
19-1103                      32.03,
                             32.04
19-1301                      35.07
19-1302                      35.07
19-1303                      35.07
19-1304                      35.07
19-1305                      51.01
19-1309                      35.45,
                             35.46
19-1309 through 19-1312      35.45
19-1310                      35.47
19-1311                      35.48
19-2417 through 19-2419      94.24
19-2701                      51.03
19-2902                      35.03
19-2903                      35.03
19-2904                      35.03
19-2905                      35.03
19-2906 through 19-2909      35.03
19-3701                      31.23
19-3801                      32.06
20-203                       92.035
21-1316.01                   35.08
23-114.02                    33.03
23-122                       32.03
25-1801                      50.04
25-21,275                    50.04
25-21,276                    50.04
25-21,277                    50.04
25-21,278                    50.04
Chapter 28, Article 3        110.17
28-318                       134.01,
                             134.02
Chapter 28, Article 4        110.17
28-519                       130.01
28-520                       92.035,
                             130.02
28-521                       92.035,
                             130.02
28-523                       133.05
28-609                       132.01
28-610                       132.02
Chapter 28, Article 7        110.17
Chapter 28, Article 8        110.17
28-801                       134.01
28-806                       134.02
28-830                       134.01
28-831                       134.01
28-833                       134.03
28-903                       132.03
28-904                       132.04
28-906                       132.05
28-907                       132.07
28-908                       132.06
Chapter 28, Article 10       110.17
28-1008                      92.035
Chapter 28, Article 11       110.17
28-1101                      134.03
28-1102                      134.03
28-1103                      134.03
28-1104                      134.03
28-1107                      134.03
28-1108                      134.03
28-1109                      134.03
28-1110                      134.03
28-1111                      134.03
28-1112                      134.03
28-1113                      134.03
28-1117                      134.03
Chapter 28, Article 12       110.17
28-1241                      93.35
28-1244                      93.35
28-1245                      93.35
28-1246 through 28-1250      93.36
28-1303                      133.06
28-1304                      133.03
28-1321                      130.03,
                             133.01
28-1322                      131.05
28-1418                      133.20
28-1419                      133.21
28-1420                      113.01
28-1420 to 28-1429           113.02
28-1421                      113.01
28-1422                      113.02
28-1423                      113.02
28-1424                      113.04
28-1425                      113.04,
                             113.07
28-1426                      113.05
28-1427                      133.22
28-1428                      113.06
28-1429                      113.07
28-1601                      134.03
29-215                       32.06
29-422                       71.15
29-424                       71.15
32-101                       31.02
32-110                       34.09
32-115                       34.09
32-404                       34.01,
                             34.02
32-532                       31.02,
                             34.03
32-554                       31.02,
                             34.03
32-556                       34.01
32-557                       31.02
32-558                       34.10
32-559                       34.06
32-560                       31.04
32-560 through 32-572        31.04
32-602                       31.02
32-604                       31.02
32-607                       34.11,
                             34.13
32-608                       34.07
32-616 through 32-618        34.13
32-621                       34.13
32-628                       34.13
32-628 to 32-631             35.50
32-629                       34.13
32-630                       34.13
32-802                       34.05,
                             35.50
32-952 through 32-959        34.06
32-1033                      34.10
32-1301 to 32-1309           34.12
32-1301 through 32-1309      34.12
32-1304                      34.12
32-1308                      31.04
33-141                       32.04
35-106                       112.01
39-301                       131.03
39-302                       131.03
39-307                       133.04
39-2512                      32.08
43-248                       134.01
45-601 through 45-622        35.12
45-623                       35.12
46-1212                      94.09
48-1503                      35.02
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      30.41
49-1425                      30.41
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 30.41
49-1499.04                   30.41
49-14,102                    30.41
49-14,103.01                 30.41
49-14,103.01 to 49-14,103.06 32.02
49-14,103.02                 30.41
49-14,103.03                 30.41
49-14,103.04                 30.41
49-14,103.05                 30.41
49-14,103.06                 30.41
                             35.50,
51-201                       96.01,
                             96.06
51-202                       33.01,
                             96.01
51-205                       96.02
51-209                       96.07
                             96.01,
51-211                       96.03—
                             96.05
51-212                       96.06
51-214                       96.02
51-215                       35.07
51-216                       35.07
51-501                       35.50
53-103.01 through 53-103.42  110.01,
                             133.24
53-103.23                    133.22
53-116.01                    110.19
53-118                       110.42
53-123.04(3)                 133.25
53-123.11(1)(c)              133.25
53-124                       110.18,
                             110.21
53-124.01                    110.18
53-124.12                    110.21
53-124.15                    110.40
53-125                       110.17
53-131                       110.18
53-132                       110.18,
                             112.01
53-133                       110.18,
                             110.40
53-134                       110.18
                             110.18,
53-134.03                    110.42,
                             110.46
53-134.04                    110.25
53-135                       110.20
53-135.01                    110.18,
                             110.20
53-148                       110.22
53-160                       112.01
53-167.02                    110.47
53-167.03                    110.47
53-168.06                    110.15
53-175                       110.16
53-177                       110.40
53-177.01                    110.40
53-178                       110.41
53-179                       110.43
53-180                       110.02
53-180.01                    133.22
53-180.02                    133.24
53-180.05                    133.22
53-183                       110.44
53-184                       110.45
53-186                       110.03
53-186(2)                    110.03
53-186.01                    110.03
53-194.03                    110.16
53-401 through 53-409        133.24
53-1,101                     110.23
53-1,102                     110.24
53-1,115                     110.25
53-1,121                     110.04
54-601                       92.020
54-603                       92.022
54-604                       92.018
54-606                       92.020
54-617                       92.035
54-618                       92.036
54-619                       92.037
54-620                       92.038
54-621                       92.038
55-133                       70.01
56-602                       92.020
60-301                       35.52
30-331.02                    72.17
60-352.01                    72.17
                             72.18,
60-3,113.02                  72.22,
                             72.24
60-3,113.03                  72.19,
                             72.24
                             72.15,
60-3,113.04                  72.16,
                             72.20
60-3,113.05                  72.21
60-462                       71.01
60-601                       Ch. 70
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01
60-631                       70.01
60-638                       70.01
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01
60-661                       70.01
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01
60-676                       70.01,
                             72.44
                             71.02,
                             72.02,
60-680                       72.04,
                             72.36,
                             72.37,
                             Ch. 73, Sch. III
60-681                       71.02
60-683                       71.01
60-1901 through 60-1911      91.20
60-6,118                     70.01
60-6,130                     70.02
60-6,165                     72.37
60-6,167                     72.01
60-6,185                     70.03
60-6,186                     70.03
60-6,187                     70.03
60-6,188                     70.03
60-6,189                     70.03
60-6,190                     70.03,
                             Ch. 73, Sch. I
60-6,196(1)(b)               71.30
60-6,196(1)(c)               71.30
60-6,201                     71.30
60-6,203                     71.30
60-6,211.01                  71.30
60-6,211.02                  71.30
60-6,211.08                  110.03,
                             133.25
60-6,305                     70.03
60-6,313                     70.03
66-489                       112.01
66-489.02                    112.01
66-4,140                     112.01
66-4,145                     112.01
66-4,146                     112.01
66-1801 et seq.              53.01
70-624.04                    30.41
70-1601                      50.03
70-1603                      50.02
70-1604                      50.02
70-2103                      130.02
71-423                       110.04
71-1557                      150.07
71-1637                      35.50
71-3305                      51.21
71-4406                      92.021
Chapter 72, Article 14       94.06
77-1601                      35.49
77-1601.02                   35.49
77-1606                      35.49,
                             35.50
77-1702                      35.14
77-1725.01                   150.38
77-2201                      32.04
77-2201 through 77-2215      32.04
77-2202                      32.04
77-2209                      32.04
77-2210                      32.04
77-2212                      32.04
77-2304                      35.09
77-2341                      35.10
77-2362 through 77-2364      35.08
77-2366                      35.08,
                             35.09
77-2386 through 77-2397      35.08
77-2602                      112.01
77-2704.24                   112.01
                             35.45,
77-3442                      35.50,
                             35.51
77-3442 through 77-3444      35.50
77-3443                      35.50
77-3444                      35.50
77-4008                      112.01
80-202                       35.50
81-145 to 81-162             35.02
81-520.01                    93.20
81-829.65                    32.06
81-3423                      94.09
81-3445                      94.09
81-3447                      150.05
81-3449                      150.05
81-3449 to 81-3453           94.09
81-3449 through 81-3453      94.09
81-3453                      150.05
81-3541                      150.05
84-304                       35.03
84-712 through 84-712.09     32.03,
                             32.04
84-712(2)                    32.03
84-1201 through 84-1220      32.03
84-1408                      30.16
84-1409                      30.15
84-1410                      30.17
                             30.16,
84-1411                      30.18,
                             30.21
84-1412                      30.22
84-1413                      30.19,
                             30.20
86-704                       112.01
                             
 
REFERENCES TO 1996 CODE
1996 Code Section 2020 Code Section
1996 Code Section 2020 Code Section
1-101             31.01
1-102             31.02
1-103             31.03
1-104             31.04
1-201             32.01
1-202             32.02
1-204             32.03
1-205             32.04
1-206             32.04
1-207             32.04
1-208             32.05
1-209             32.06
1-210             32.07
1-211             32.08
1-301             30.01
1-302             30.02
1-401             30.03
1-501             30.15
1-502             30.15
1-503             30.16
1-504             30.17
1-505             30.18
1-506             30.19
1-507             30.20
1-508             30.21
1-509             30.22
1-510             30.23
1-511             30.24
1-512             30.25
1-513             30.26
1-514             30.27
1-601             31.15
1-602             31.16
1-603             31.17
1-604             31.18
1-605             31.19
1-606             31.20
1-607             31.21
1-608             31.22
1-609             31.23
1-610             31.24
1-701             34.01
1-702             34.02
1-703             34.03
1-704             34.04
1-705             34.05
1-706             34.06
1-707             34.07
1-708             34.08
1-709             34.09
1-710             34.10
1-711             34.11
1-712             34.12
1-801             35.25
1-802             35.26
1-803             35.27
1-804             35.28
1-805             35.29
1-806             35.30
1-807             35.45
1-808             35.46
1-810             35.47
1-811             35.48
1-812             35.51
1-813             35.01
1-814             35.02
1-815             35.03
1-816             35.04
1-817             35.05
1-818             35.06
1-819             35.07
1-820             35.08
1-821             35.10
1-822             35.11
1-823             35.52
1-824             35.12
1-825             35.13
1-826             35.49
1-901             30.40
1-902             30.41
                  30.99,
                  31.99,
1-1001            32.99,
                  34.99,
                  35.99
2-101             33.01
2-102             33.02
2-103             33.03
2-104             33.04
2-105             33.05
2-106             33.06
2-201             33.99
3-101             51.01
3-102             51.02
3-103             51.03
3-104             51.04
3-105             51.05
3-106             51.06
3-107             51.07
3-108             51.08
3-109             51.09
3-110             51.10
3-111             51.11
3-112             51.12
3-113             51.13
3-114             51.14
3-115             51.15
3-116             51.16
3-117             51.17
3-118             51.18
3-119             51.19
3-120             51.20
3-121             51.21
3-122             51.22
3-123             51.23
3-201             52.01
3-202             52.02
3-203             52.03
3-204             52.04
3-205             52.05
3-206             52.06
3-207             52.07
3-208             52.08
3-209             52.09
3-210             52.10
3-211             52.11
3-212             52.12
3-213             52.13
3-214             52.14
3-215             52.15
3-216             52.16
3-301             50.01
3-302             50.02
3-303             50.04
3-401             95.01
3-402             95.02
3-403             95.03
3-404             95.04
3-501             96.01
3-502             96.02
3-503             96.03
3-504             96.04
3-505             96.05
3-506             96.06
3-507             96.07
3-601             97.01
                  50.99,
                  51.99,
3-701             52.99,
                  95.99,
                  96.99,
                  97.99
4-101             90.01
4-102             90.02
4-201             54.01
4-202             54.02
4-203             54.03
4-204             54.04
4-205             54.05
4-206             54.06
4-207             54.08
4-302             91.01
4-303             91.02
4-304             91.05
                  54.99,
4-401             90.99,
                  91.99
5-101             70.01
5-102             Ch. 73, Sch. III
5-103             70.02
5-104             70.03
5-105             Ch. 73, Sch. I
5-106             Ch. 73, Sch. I
5-201             71.01
5-202             71.02
5-203             71.15
5-301             72.01
5-302             72.02
5-303             72.03
5-304             72.04
5-305             72.15
5-306             72.16
5-307             72.17
5-308             72.18
5-309             72.19
5-310             72.20
5-311             72.21
5-312             72.22
5-313             72.23
5-314             72.24
5-315             72.35
5-316             72.36
5-317             72.37
5-318             72.38
                  70.99,
5-401             71.99,
                  72.99
6-101             92.015
6-102             92.016
6-103             92.017
6-104             92.018
6-105             92.035
6-106             92.036
6-107             92.037
6-108             92.038
6-109             92.019
6-110             92.020
6-111             92.021
6-201             92.001
6-301             133.01
6-302             133.02
6-303             133.07
6-304             133.40
6-305             133.41
6-306             131.01
6-307             131.03
6-308             91.20
6-309             91.21
6-310             91.22
6-401             91.99,
                  92.999
7-101             93.01
7-102             93.02
7-103             93.03
7-104             93.04,
                  93.99
7-105             93.05
7-106             93.06
7-107             93.20
7-201             93.35
7-202             93.36
7-301             93.99
8-101             94.01
8-102             94.02
8-103             94.03
8-104             94.04
8-105             94.05
8-106             94.06
8-107             94.07
8-108             94.08
8-201             94.20
8-202             94.21
8-203             94.22
8-204             94.23
8-205             94.24
8-301             94.35
8-302             94.36
8-303             94.37
8-304             94.38
8-305             94.39
8-401             94.50
8-501             94.99
9-101             150.01
9-101.01          150.06
9-101.02          150.06
9-102             150.02
9-103             150.05
9-201             150.35
9-202             150.36
9-203             150.37
9-301             150.99
10-117            110.43
10-201            111.02
10-301            TSO I
10-302            TSO I
10-303            TSO I
10-601            113.02,
                  113.03
11-101            151.01
11-201            153.01
11-301            152.01
                  151.99,
11-401            152.99,
                  153.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
98-3     - -         TSO IV
97-1     6-3-1997    TSO IV
97-2     8-5-1997    TSO III
98-2     3-11-1998   TSO V
98-4     8-4-1998    TSO IV
2000-04  5-2-2000    111.02
2006-05  5-9-2006    TSO IV
2006-06  5-9-2006    TSO IV
2009-08  3- -2009    TSO III
12-14    10-1-2012   36.01
2012-16  12-6-2012   TSO IV
2013-11  6-17-2013   51.25
2013-12  7-1-2013    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2013-14  8-5-2013    51.25
2014-02  2-3-2014    TSO I
2015-20  9-8-2015    51.25
2016-10  2-9-2016    36.02
2017-45  9-12-2017   36.01
2018-35  5-18-2018   31.01
2018-30  6-12-2018   TSO IV
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
96-1     1-8-1996    TSO II
96-2     2-12-1996   53.01
96-3     3-11-1996   54.05
96-6     5-24-1996   TSO I
96-7     8-6-1996    30.40
96-8     9-3-1996    91.22
96-10    11-5-1996   51.21
96-11    11-5-1996   92.017
96-12    11-5-1996   52.16
96-13    11-5-1996   51.22
96-14    11-5-1996   153.01
97-1     2-4-1997    51.23,
                     TSO V
97-2     2-4-1997    51.09,
                     51.23
97-3     2-4-1997    Ch. 73, Sch. I
97-4     2-4-1997    51.09,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. I
97-5     5-6-1997    92.017
97-6     6-3-1997    33.04
97-7     7-1-1997    150.06
97-8     7-1-1997    30.40
97-9     8-5-1997    10.18
97-10    8-5-1997    32.01
97-11    8-5-1997    31.15
97-12    8-5-1997    31.16
97-13    8-5-1997    31.20
97-14    8-5-1997    31.21
97-15    8-5-1997    31.23
97-16    8-5-1997    31.24
97-17    8-5-1997    34.06
97-18    8-5-1997    35.26
97-19    8-5-1997    35.28
97-20    8-5-1997    35.13
97-21    8-5-1997    35.49
97-22    8-5-1997    33.04
97-23    8-5-1997    50.02
97-24    8-5-1997    72.15
97-25    8-5-1997    72.16
97-26    8-5-1997    72.17
97-27    8-5-1997    72.18
97-28    8-5-1997    72.19
97-29    8-5-1997    72.20
97-30    8-5-1997    72.21
97-31    8-5-1997    72.22
97-32    8-5-1997    72.23
97-33    8-5-1997    72.24
97-35    9-11-1997   TSO III
98-1     10-7-1997   54.06
98-2     11-11-1997  54.08
98-3     1-6-1998    72.39
98-4     5-5-1998    50.01
98-5     7-7-1998    92.017
98-6     7-7-1998    92.065—
                     92.068
                     92.015—
98-7     7-7-1998    92.017,
                     92.050—
                     92.052
98-8     7-7-1998    153.01
98-9     7-7-1998    150.01
98-10    7-7-1998    153.01
98-11    7-7-1998    153.01
98-12    7-7-1998    30.40
98-13    8-4-1998    31.04
98-14    8-4-1998    34.13
98-15    8-4-1998    34.12
98-16    8-4-1998    35.26
98-17    8-4-1998    35.27
98-18    8-4-1998    35.28
98-19    8-4-1998    35.51
98-20    8-4-1998    35.50
98-21    8-4-1998    35.49
98-22    8-4-1998    35.45
98-24    8-4-1998    35.08
98-25    8-4-1998    35.09
98-26    8-4-1998    35.02
98-27    8-4-1998    35.14
98-28    8-4-1998    33.01
98-29    8-4-1998    33.02
98-30    8-4-1998    52.01
98-31    8-4-1998    32.06
98-32    8-4-1998    92.022
98-33    8-4-1998    132.07
98-34    8-4-1998    94.04
98-35    8-4-1998    94.09
98-36    8-4-1998    150.05
98-37    8-4-1998    113.02,
                     113.03
98-39    10-6-1998   TSO II
99-1     1-5-1999    TSO V
99-2     1-5-1999    92.019
99-4     4-6-1999    150.06
99-5     5-11-1999   92.002
99-6     6-1-1999    71.30
99-7     6-1-1999    72.15
99-8     6-1-1999    150.05
99-9     6-1-1999    150.07
99-10    6-1-1999    54.07
99-11    6-1-1999    50.03
99-12    6-1-1999    34.12
99-13    8-3-1999    30.40
99-14    9-7-1999    Ch. 73, Sch. I
99-15    11-2-1999   153.01
99-16    12-6-1999   93.36
00-23    10-16-2000  150.01
00-24    10-16-2000  153.01
00-25    10-16-2000  150.06
00-26    10-16-2000  150.06
01-02    4- -2001    TSO V
                     54.99,
02-01    5-7-2002    91.01—
                     91.04,
                     91.99
04-16    8-3-2004    30.40
04-17    9-7-2004    Ch. 73, Sch. II
05-16    8-2-2005    30.40
05-18    9-6-2005    54.04
2006-01  1-3-2006    54.04
07-02    - -2007     150.55
2007-01  2-6-2007    51.24
2007-03  3-6-2007    35.53
2007-04  3-6-2007    54.04
2007-08  8-7-2007    50.05
07-11    10-2-2007   51.25
07-12    10-2-2007   52.17
2008-01  1-3-2008    54.04
2008-04  9-2-2008    30.40
2009-01  1-6-2009    92.050
2009-04  6-2-2009    51.25
2009-08  11-3-2009   TSO V
2010-01  1-5-2010    72.40,
                     72.41
2010-03  7-6-2010    110.43
2010-04  8-3-2010    33.01
                     91.01—
12-13    10-1-2012   91.04,
                     91.99
2013-10  4-1-2013    30.26
2013-11  6-3-2013    72.43
2013-13  6-17-2013   52.17
2013-14  7-1-2013    92.080—
                     92.083
5-320    10-7-2013   72.42
2013-15  10-7-2013   71.31
2014-10  3-3-2014    92.050
2014-14  4-7-2014    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2014-15  6-2-2014    TSO III
2014-16  12-1-2014   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2015-10  5-4-2015    30.26
2015-20  12-8-2015   150.20,
                     150.21
2015-22  12-8-2015   150.22
2015-23  12-8-2015   72.44
2016-24  9-13-2016   91.02
2016-28  11-8-2016   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2016-30  12-13-2016  153.01
2016-32  12-13-2016  50.01
2017-07  4-11-2017   92.001
2017-10  5-9-2017    94.05
2017-15  6-13-2017   72.38
2017-20  7-11-2017   91.21
2017-25  7-11-2017   91.22
2018-15  4-10-2018   52.17
2018-16  4-10-2018   51.07
2018-17  4-10-2018   52.08
2018-18  4-10-2018   51.25
2018-90  11-13-2018  54.04
2019-25  8-13-2019   91.02
                    
 
 
