MUNICIPAL CODE OF THE CITY OF
SPRINGFIELD, NEBRASKA
ORDINANCE NO. 160
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
November 6, 1973
 
Contains 2023 S-4 Supplement,
Current through Ord. No. 1141, passed 6/6/23; and
State legislation current through 2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This Municipal Code of Springfield, Nebraska, 1973, contains all the
ordinances of the Municipality of a general nature. Certain ordinances which
are continued in force after this codification for the purpose of rights
acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities incurred, and actions
therefor have been omitted from this publication.
   A Table of Contents appears after this page, and a complete index to the
subject matter included in the several chapters and sections herein will be
found at the end of this volume. Convenient cross-references to the Statutes of
Nebraska indicate the source of legislative power and supplement the text.
   The text of the Springfield Municipal Code, 1973, is arranged in the same
manner as the Revised Statutes of Nebraska. The number preceding the hyphen is
the chapter number; immediately following the hyphen is the article number; and
following that is the section number. Each section number is complete within
itself indicating the number of the chapter, article, and section.
CITY OFFICERS of
SPRINGFIELD, NEBRASKA
2023
*****
Kathleen Gottsch          Administratork/Treasurer
Kelly Shemek              City Clerk
William E. Seidler, Omaha Attorney
Bob Engberg               Fire Chief
                          
*****
CITY COUNCIL
Bob Roseland, Mayor
Dan Craney
Mike Herzog
Kacie Murtha
Mike Neitzel
*****
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 160
ORDINANCES OF A GENERAL AND PERMANENT NATURE of the CITY of SPRINGFIELD,
NEBRASKA
   An ordinance of the City of Springfield, Nebraska, revising the general
ordinances of the Municipality, repealing prior ordinances in conflict
herewith.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF SPRINGFIELD, NEBRASKA.
   Section 1. Codification. The general ordinances of the Municipality of
Springfield, Nebraska, are hereby codified into ten (10) chapters and the
articles and sections hereunder, which are adopted and declared to be
ordinances of this Municipality.
   Section 2. Repeal of Prior Ordinances in Conflict. All ordinances and parts
of ordinances of a general or permanent nature passed and approved prior to the
passage and approval of this codification ordinance and in conflict with this
ordinance or with any of the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed;
Provided, that in construing the provisions of this ordinance the following
ordinances shall not be considered or held to be ordinances of a general or
permanent nature, to-wit:
   1.   Ordinances vacating streets and alleys.
   2.   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
   3.   Ordinances levying taxes or special assessments.
   4.   Ordinances granting any right, privilege, franchise, or license to
persons, firms, or corporations.
   5.   Ordinances providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   6.   Ordinances establishing grades.
   7.   Real Estate Transactions.
   8.   Any other ordinance which by nature would be considered special.
   Section 3. Exceptions. The repeal of ordinances as provided in Section 2,
Ordinance No. 160 shall not affect any rights acquired, fines, penalties,
forfeitures, or liabilities incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of
the provisions of such ordinances and parts thereof prior to repeal. Such
ordinances above repealed are hereby continued in force and effect after the
passage, approval and publication of this general codification ordinance for
the purpose of all rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities, and
actions therefor.
   Section 4. Defining Chapters, Articles, and Sections. The chapters,
articles, and sections as set forth herein shall be and hereby are declared to
be the chapters, articles, and sections of this general codification ordinance.
All ordinances hereafter passed by the local Governing Body of the Municipality
shall be numbered consecutively, beginning with No. 161.
   Section 5. Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
clause, phrase, term, or provision of this ordinance should be declared invalid
by any court of competent jurisdiction for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this code, which will remain in full
force and effect, and the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to
be severable.
   Section 6. Blanket Penalty. Any person, his agents, or servants who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Municipal Code unless otherwise
specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00). Whoever aids, abets, procures, encourages, requests, advises, or
incites another to commit any act which is an offense under this Code or under
any other ordinance of the Municipality may be prosecuted and punished as
though he were the principal offender.
   Section 7. General Definitions:
   1.   Person. Whenever used in this code, the word person shall include
natural persons, artificial persons, such as corporations, co-partnerships,
associations, and all aggregate organizations of whatever character.
   2.   Gender and Number. All words used herein implying the masculine gender
may apply to, and include the feminine or neuter gender and all words importing
the plural may be applied to, and mean a single person, firm, or thing. All
words importing the singular number may be applied to and mean the plural
number.
   3.   Code, Ordinance, and Chapter. Municipal Code shall mean the General
Codification Ordinance No. 160. Ordinance and chapter are used synonymously
unless from the context the contrary clearly appears.
   4.   Wholesale Dealer. The words wholesale dealer or sellers of said product
at wholesale shall embrace and include manufacturers of any product who sell
the said product to other persons for the purpose of future resale to
consumers.
   5.   Municipal and Municipality. The words Municipal and Municipality
whenever used in this code shall mean the City of Springfield, Nebraska, a
Municipal Corporation.
   6.   Governing Body. The words Governing Body, whenever they appear in this
Code mean the Mayor and City Council of the Municipality.
   7.   Mayor. The word Mayor means the Chief Administrative Official of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
   8.   Municipal Police. Municipal Police shall mean any police officer of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
   Section 8. Time. Whenever words fixing or importing time or the hour of the
day are used in this Code, they shall be construed to mean Central Standard
Time or Central Daylight Savings Time whichever is applicable.
   Section 9. Construction of Chapters, Articles, and Sections. For purposes of
construction each chapter contained and arranged in this Code shall be
considered as a separate and distinct ordinance grouped for convenience under
the General Codification Ordinance No. 160, each section appearing in the
several chapters of this Code shall be considered a separate and distinct unit
of legislation germane to the chapter or article under which it is grouped and
each article appearing in the said chapters shall be considered as a group of
legislative units germane to the chapter wherein it is placed. Any chapter,
article, or section duly enacted by the Governing Body of the Municipality and
included in this Code, and any other independent ordinance, chapter, article,
section, or subsection of an ordinance duly enacted shall be altered, amended,
or revised only by the complete nullification and repeal of such ordinance,
chapter, article, section, or subsection and by the substitution of a new
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection containing the entire
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection as amended, altered, or
revised.
   Section 10. Publication and Distribution. This code was printed in book form
under the direction of the Governing Body, and shall be distributed as it may
see fit. (Ref. 17-613, 17-614 RS Neb.)
   Section 11. When Operative. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall
take effect from and after its passage, approval and publication according to
law.
   Passed and approved November 6, 1973.
             Allen F. Kreifels
            Mayor
(SEAL)
Dorothy Richards
Municipal Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 411
AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO SUPPLEMENTS TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE; TO AUTHORIZE THE
CODIFIER TO MAKE FORMAL NONSUBSTANTIVE CHANGES IN ORDINANCES AND PARTS OF
ORDINANCES INCLUDED IN THE SUPPLEMENT AS NECESSARY TO EMBODY THEM INTO A
UNIFIED CODE; TO REPEAL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES AND SECTIONS; TO PROVIDE AN
EFFECTIVE DATE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SPRINGFIELD,
NEBRASKA.
Section 1. SUPPLEMENTATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE.
   When preparing a supplement to the Municipal Code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in
the supplement as necessary to embody them into a unified Code. For example,
the codifier may:
   1.   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate sections and
subdivisions;
   2.   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections and
other subdivisions of the ordinance printed in the supplement and make changes
in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
   3.   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
   4.   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to "this
chapter," "this article," "this section," etc., as may be appropriate, or to
"sections ______ to ______" (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections
of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated
into the Code);
   5.   Insert appropriate section numbers in references to Code sections such
as "section ______" or "sections ______ to ______" which are not filled in
prior to adoption of an ordinance;
   6.   Correct the spelling of words, correct obvious typographical errors,
correct erroneous division and hyphenation of words, capitalize or decapitalize
words, and make other similar changes in accordance with accepted usage or for
consistency with other provisions of the Code;
   7.   Change terminology for consistency with terminology used in other
provisions of the Code; and
   8.   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to incorporate ordinance
material into the Code while preserving the original meaning of the ordinance
sections.
   In no case shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of
ordinance material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code
and not repealed by any ordinance.
Section 2. Any other ordinance or section passed and approved prior to passage,
approval, and publication or posting of this ordinance and in conflict with its
provisions is repealed.
Section 3. This ordinance shall take effect and be in full force from and after
its passage, approval, and publication or posting as required by law.
      Passed and approved this 17th day of June, 1997.
   Dennis E. Neitzel
   Mayor
(SEAL)
Dorothy Richards
Clerk   
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATIVE
   Article
      
Article 1.    Elected Officials
      
Article 2.    Appointed Officials
      
Article 3.    Bonds and Oaths
      
Article 4.    Corporate Seal
      
Article 5.    Meetings
      
Article 6.    Ordinances
      
Article 7.    Elections
      
Article 8.    Fiscal Management
      
Article 9.    Compensation
      
Article 10.    General Provisions
      
Article 11.    Initiative and Referendum
      
Article 12.    Penal Provision
Article 1. Elected Officials
Section
   
1-101   City Mayor; Powers and Duties
   
1-102   City Council; Acting President
   
1-103   City Council; Selection and Duties
   
1-104   City Council; Organization
   
1-105   Elected Officials; Vacancy
   
1-105.01   Elected Officials; Vacancy Due to Unexcused Absences
   
1-106   City Mayor; Vacancy
   
1-107   Elected Officials; Restrictions on Other Employment or Elective Office
§1-101 CITY MAYOR; POWERS AND DUTIES. 
   (A) The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor
may vote when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to
attain the number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected
to the City Council on any pending matter, legislation, or transaction, and the
Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the
Council. He or she shall have superintendence and control of all the officers
and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of the city
and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with. (Ref. 17-
110 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract, or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor's veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw,
resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of
any claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required by this
section, the measure shall become effective without his or her signature. The
Mayor may veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill,
and approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed
by the Council over the veto as in other cases. (Ref. 17-111 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city. (Ref. 17-112 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office. (Ref. 17-113 RS Neb.)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of
the city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and
regulation thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or
her by ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the city. (Ref. 17-114 RS Neb.)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city. (Ref. 17-117 RS Neb.)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk's minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the State of Nebraska or as the Council may by resolution confer
upon the Mayor. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 180, 1/4/77; 845, 2/4/14; 888, 7/21/15;
977, 8/7/18)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see 17-108.02, 32-109,
32-603, and 32-604 RS Neb.
§1-102 CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall elect one (1) of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one (1) of its own
body to occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the Municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor. (Ref. 17-148 RS Neb.)
§1-103 CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of four (4) residents who are qualified
electors of the City.
   (B)   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four
(4) year term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the
Municipal Government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as
may be authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions. (Ref. 17-
103, 17-104 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 958, 5/2/17)
§1-104 CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION. 
   City Council-members of this Municipality shall take office, and commence
their duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election.
The newly elected Councilmembers who have qualified as prescribed by law,
together with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a
regular meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal
Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of all City Councilmembers-
elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be
spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of
the Municipality shall be represented by at least two (2) Councilmembers. No
person shall be eligible who is not at the time of his election an actual
resident of the ward for which he is qualified and should any City
Councilmember move from the ward from which he was elected, his office shall
thereby become vacant. (Ref. 17-104 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 181, 1/4/77)
§1-105 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in section 32-560 RS Neb. except as provided in section 32-561
RS Neb. (Ref. 32-560 RS Neb.)
   (B)   In the case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the
office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such vacancy is filled or such
disability is removed, or in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor
returns. If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council. (Ref. 32-568(4) RS
Neb.)
   (C)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (B), (D), or (E) of
this section, vacancies in city elected offices shall be filled by the Mayor
and City Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy,
except a vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing
and presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear
as a part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three (3) public places in the
city the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place the
issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four (4) weeks
after the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The
Council shall vote upon such nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of such
nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive
a majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall,
at the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at such meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Council
shall continue to vote upon such nominations until the vacancy is filled. The
Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in the case of a
tie vote of the Council. All Councilmembers present shall cast a ballot for or
against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been appointed to fill a
vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights, including voting, as if such
person were elected.
   (D)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a City
elected office as provided in subsection (C) of this section, call a special
City election to fill such vacancy.
   (E)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special City
election to fill such vacancies. (Ref. 32-569 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
167, 9/2/75; 266, 12/4/84; 335, 1/8/91; 539, 4/2/02; 925, 5/17/16)
§1-105.01 ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in section 32-560 RS Neb. and any
other reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a
vacancy on the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than
five (5) consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are
excused by a majority vote of the remaining members. (Ref. 19-3101 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk or
      (2)   A motion of any other Council member.
   (C)   If a Council member has been absent from six (6) consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or first-class mail to the member’s last-known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to present
information on why one (1) or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one (1) or more of the member’s absences by a majority
vote at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Ord. No. 599, 4/1/03)
§1-106 CITY MAYOR; VACANCY.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 539, 4/2/02)
§1-107 ELECTED OFFICIALS; RESTRICTIONS ON OTHER EMPLOYMENT OR ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   (1)   The Mayor and members of the Council shall hold no other employment
with the City.
   (2)   The provisions of section 32-604 RS Neb. apply to multiple office
holding.
   (3)   No member of the City Council shall hold the office of Mayor. (Ref.
17-108.02, 32-109, 32-603, 32- 604 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 332, 1/8/91) (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 445, 7/21/98; 790, 7/17/11)
Article 2. Appointed Officials
Section
   
1-201   Appointed Officials; Appointment; Terms; Removal; Powers; Duties
   
1-202   Appointed Officials; Merger of Offices
   
1-203   Appointed Officials; City Clerk
   
1-204   Appointed Officials; City Treasurer
   
1-205   Appointed Officials; Treasurer's Monthly Report
   
1-206   Appointed Officials; Treasurer's Annual Report
   
1-207   Appointed Officials; Municipal Attorney
   
1-208   Appointed Officials; Municipal Police Chief
   
1-209   Appointed Officials; Municipal Policeman
   
1-210   Appointed Officials; Municipal Fire Chief
   
1-211   Appointed Officials; Special Engineer
   
1-212   Appointed Officials; Municipal Street Superintendent
   
1-213   Appointed Officials; Municipal Maintenance Superintendent.
   
1-214   Appointed Officials; Municipal Building Inspector
   
1-215   Appointed Officials; Zoning Inspector
   
1-216   Appointed Officials; City Administrator
§1-201 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
     (1)   (a)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (b)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         1.   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         2.   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
(Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.)
   (2)   (a)   The City may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Ref. 17-604 RS Neb.)
      (b)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law. (Ref. 17-107, 17-541, 81-1438 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. Nos. 412, 6/17/97; 810, 6/19/12)
§1-202 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MERGER OF OFFICES.
     The Governing Body may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Councilmember, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices
or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or employments
may be held by the same officer or employee at the  same time. The offices or
employments so merged and combined shall always be construed to be separate and
the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a consolidation of
official duties only. The salary or compensation of the officer or employee
holding the merged or combined offices or employments or offices and
employments shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for
the salary or compensation of the office, offices, employment or employments so
merged and combined. for purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and
ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers. (Ref. 17-108.02 RS Neb.) 
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 267, 12/4/84; 334, 1/8/91)
§1-203 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY CLERK.   
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the City. If the Clerk is acting
as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of § 1-204
(A)(3). (Ref. 17-605 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within thirty (30) days after any
meeting of the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the
meeting, and shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose
of the claim, and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of
all payroll claims may be included as one (1) item. Between July 15 and August
15 of each year, the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or
hourly salaries corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job
title published shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions
of the position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates
provided for in section 23-122 RS Neb. (Ref. 19-1102 RS Neb.)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) shall be made in one (1) legal
newspaper of general circulation in the City. If no legal newspaper is
published in the City, then the publication shall be made in one (1) legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the County in which the
City is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the City. (Ref. 19-1103 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy City public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator. (Ref. 18-1701 RS Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in sections 84-712 through 84-712.09 RS Neb.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the City kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the City as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to section
84-712(2) RS Neb. He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at
the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all
resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the
date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto,
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the City, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the City ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
City officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the City and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the City. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer's affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk's certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the City, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five (5) days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 182, 1/4/77; 846, 2/4/14; 1082, 12/7/21; 1109, 9/20/22)
§1-204 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY TREASURER.
    (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the City. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk's office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within twenty (20) days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
section 19-1101 RS Neb. with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that
year and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts. (Ref. 17-
606 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within sixty
(60) days after the close of the City fiscal year a statement of the receipts
and expenditures of funds of the City for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by sections 16-318(3) or
17-606(2) RS Neb. Not more than the legal rate provided for in section 33-141
RS Neb. shall be charged and paid for such publication. (Ref. 19-1101 RS Neb.)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one (1) legal newspaper of general
circulation in the City. If no legal newspaper is published in the City, then
such publication shall be made in one (1) legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the County in which the City is located. (Ref. 19-
1103 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in sections 77-2201
through 77-2215 RS Neb. (Ref. 77-2201 RS Neb.)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed. (Ref. 77-2202 RS
Neb.)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one
(1) of the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in
his or her office. (Ref. 77-2209 RS Neb.)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Ref. 77-2210 RS Neb.)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid. (Ref. 77-2212 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer's custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in sections 84-712 through 84-712.09 RS Neb.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the City, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the City Treasurer,"
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 540, 4/2/02; 847, 2/4/14; 1083, 12/7/
21)
§1-205 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER’S MONTHLY REPORT.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 540, 4/2/02)
§1-206 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER’S ANNUAL REPORT.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 540, 4/2/02)
§1-207 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
   The Municipal Attorney is the Municipality’s legal advisor, and as such he
shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits on behalf of the Municipality.
When requested by the Governing Body, he shall attend meetings of the Governing
Body, and shall advise any Municipal official in all matters of law in which
the interests of the Municipality may be involved. He shall draft such
ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may be required in the
administration of the affairs of the Municipality. He shall examine all bonds,
contracts, and documents on which the Governing Body will be required to act,
and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all such instruments, and
documents as to whether, or not, the document is in legal, and proper form. He
shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute violations of the Municipal
ordinances when directed to do so by the Governing Body. Without direction, he
shall appear, and prosecute all cases for violation of the Municipal ordinances
that have been appealed to, and are pending in any higher court. He shall also
examine, when requested to do so by the Governing Body, the ordinance records,
and advise, and assist the Municipal Clerk as much as may be necessary to the
end that each procedural step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to
insure that they will be valid, and subsisting local laws in so far as their
passage, and approval are concerned. The Governing Body shall have the right to
compensate the Municipal Attorney for legal services on such terms as the
Governing Body and the Municipal Attorney may agree, and to employ any
additional legal assistance as may be necessary out of the funds of the
Municipality. (Ref. 17-610 RS Neb.)
§1-208 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Police Chief shall direct the police work of the Municipality
and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He shall act
as Health Inspector, and Building Inspector, except in the event the
Municipality appoints another person. He shall file the necessary complaints in
cases arising out of violations of Municipal ordinances, and shall make all
necessary reports required by the Municipal ordinances, or the laws of the
State of Nebraska. (Ref. 17-107, 17-213 17-121 RS Neb.)
§1-209 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICEMAN.
   The Municipal Police, whether regular, or special shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the State of Nebraska, or the
Municipality, by day or by night, and keep the said offenders in the Municipal
jail, or some other place to prevent their escape until trial can be held
before the proper official of the State of Nebraska, or the Municipality. They
shall have full power, and authority to call on any person whenever necessary
to assist them in performing public duties, and failure, neglect, or refusal to
render such assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction
by a fine. Every Municipal Policeman shall be expected to be conversant, and
knowledgeable with the Municipal and State laws and no law enforcement official
shall have  any interest in any establishment having a liquor license.
Municipal Policemen shall have the duty to file such complaints and reports as
may be required by the Municipal ordinances, and the laws of the State of
Nebraska. Any Municipal Policeman who shall willfully fail, neglect, or refuse
to make an arrest, or who purposely, and willfully fails to make a complaint
after an arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the Governing Body to
retain any Municipal Policeman in that position after he shall have been duly
convicted of the willful violation of any law of the United States of America,
the State of Nebraska, or any ordinance of the Municipality, except minor
traffic violations. It shall be the duty of every Municipal Policeman making a
lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person,
whenever possible, and shall carefully keep, and produce to the proper judicial
official upon the trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All
personal effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them
upon their release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the
Municipal Police by the Municipality. Any member who shall lose or destroy the
same shall be required to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any
member shall leave the force, he shall immediately deliver his badge to the
Police Chief. The Governing Body may from time to time provide the Municipal
Police with such uniforms, equipment, and transportation as may be essential in
the performance of their official duties. (Ref. 17-213, 17-118, 17-124 RS Neb.)
§1-210 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
   The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire
Department. He shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of
fires; the storage and use of explosives and flammable substances; the
installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance of fire extinguishing
equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the inspection of all premises
requiring adequate fire escapes. He shall within two (2) days investigate the
cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising within his jurisdiction. He
shall, on or before the first (1st) day in April and October of each year,
cause the secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk, and the Clerk of the
District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all members in good standing in
their respective companies in order to obtain the exemptions provided by law.
The Governing Body shall purchase Workmen’s Compensation Insurance, and a group
term life insurance policy for each active volunteer fireman. Said life
insurance policy shall provide a minimum of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars
for death from any cause to age sixty-five (65). He shall have the power during
the time of a fire, and for a period of thirty-six (36) hours thereafter to
arrest any suspected arsonist, or any person for hindering the department’s
efforts, conducting himself in a noisy and disorderly manner, or who shall
refuse to obey any lawful order by the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The
Fire Chief, or his assistant in charge of operations at a fire may command the
services of any person present at any fire in extinguishing the same or in the
removal, and protection of property. Failure to obey such an order shall be a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine. The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter
at all reasonable hours into buildings, and upon all premises within his
jurisdiction for the purpose of examining the same for fire hazards, and
related dangers. (Ref. 17-147, 17-505, 35-102, 35-108, 81-506, 81-512 RS Neb.)
§1-211 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   The Governing Body may employ a Special Engineer to make or assist the
Municipal Engineer in making any particular estimate, survey, or other work.
The Special Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his surveys and all
other work done for the Municipality. He shall, when directed by the Governing
Body, accurately make all plats, sections, profiles, and maps as may be
necessary in the judgment of the Governing Body. He shall, upon request of the
Governing Body, make estimates of the costs of labor and material which may be
done or furnished by contract with the Municipality, and make all surveys,
estimates, and calculations necessary for the establishment of grades, bridges,
building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant,
public heating system, bridges, curbing and gutters, and the improvement of
streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other
duties as the Governing Body may require. All records of the Special Engineer
shall be public records which shall belong to the Municipality, and shall be
turned over to his successor. (Ref. 17-405, 17-568, 17-568.01, 17-919 RS Neb.) 
(Amended by Ord. No. 254, 11/1/83)
§1-212 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL STREET SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Municipal Street Superintendent shall, subject to the orders and
directives of the Governing Body, have general charge, direction, and control
of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the
Municipality, and shall perform such other duties as the Governing Body may
require. It shall be his responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein
function properly, and that the same are kept in good repair. He shall, at the
request of the Governing Body make a detailed report to the Governing Body on
the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys, and bridges of the
Municipality, and shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs,
extensions, additions, and additional employees as he may believe are needed to
maintain a satisfactory street system in the Municipality along with an
estimate of the cost thereof. He shall issue such permits, and assume such
other duties as the Governing Body may direct. The Municipal Street
Superintendent may be removed at any time by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
Governing Body. (Ref. 17-107, 17-119, RS Neb.)
§1-213 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL MAINTENANCE SUPERINTENDENT.
   A Maintenance Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there is
more than one Municipal utility, and the Governing Body determines that it is
in the best interest of the Municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all the said Municipal utilities. The Maintenance
Superintendent may be removed for good cause by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
Governing Body and any vacancy occurring in the said office by death,
resignation or removal may be filled in the manner hereinbefore provided for
the appointment of all Municipal officials. (Ref. 17-541 RS Neb.)
§1-214 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections
in any area of the Municipality to determine whether all buildings and
structures are in compliance with the Municipal ordinances. He shall
investigate all complaints whether they are verbal, written, or in the form of
a petition alleging, and charging that a violation of the Municipal ordinances
exists, and that a building, or structure is unfit, or unsafe for human
habitation. The Building Inspector is authorized upon properly identifying
himself to enter, inspect, survey, and investigate between the hours of eight
(8:00) o’clock A.M., and five (5:00) o’clock P.M., or at any time if an
emergency exists, or if requested by the owner, or occupant thereof. He shall
keep records of all complaints received, inspection reports, orders, and
complaints issued. The records shall be available for public inspection, and he
shall prepare an annual report including statistics based on the records kept.
The Building Inspector shall have no financial interest in the furnishing of
labor, materials, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or
maintenance of a building, except where he is the owner of a building, and he
shall not act as an agent for any said dealer, or as an agent for the sale,
lease, or rental of any real estate. The Building Inspector shall report to the
Governing Body as often as they may deem necessary, and shall have such other
duties, and issue such permits as they may direct. The Building Inspector may
be removed at any time for good, and sufficient cause by the Governing Body.
§1-215 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; ZONING INSPECTOR. 
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Inspector. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Mayor, the Building Inspector is hereby designated as Zoning
Inspector.
§1-216 APPOINTED OFFICIALS; CITY ADMINISTRATOR. 
   (A)   Establishment and Purpose. There is hereby established the office of
City Administrator. The purpose of the office of City Administrator is to
provide for the centralization of the administrative responsibilities of all
affairs of the City which are under the direction of the Mayor and City
Council.
   (B)   Appointment and Responsibilities.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall be the non-elected administrative head
of the City government under the direction and control of the Mayor and City
Council. The City Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the majority of the members of the City Council.
      (2)   The City Administrator may be removed at any time upon notice given
by the Mayor with the approval of a majority of the members of the City Council
or pursuant to the terms of any applicable contract for services. The City
Administrator may be removed without approval of the Mayor upon a unanimous
vote of the total membership of the Council. Notification of termination and
severance pay are pursuant to any applicable contract for services.
      (3)   All of the Departments of the City shall be under the
administrative supervision and direction of the City Administrator. Except for
the purposes of inquiry, the Mayor and City Council shall deal with the
administrative services of the City through the City Administrator.
      (4)   The City Administrator shall direct the affairs of the City to
include planning, directing, and coordinating the personnel matters of all City
employees, except as otherwise provided by City ordinances, state statutes or
any applicable labor contracts made on the basis of merit; recruit, interview
and test job applicants; ensure all appointments are made on the basis of
merit; maintain a classification system, if any, for City employees and
administer the pay plan; keep records of all City employees; ensure hearings
for grievances promote training programs; and foster good employee relations.
      (5)   Compensation. The City Administrator shall receive such
compensation and allowances as the Mayor and City Council may prescribe by
resolution.
   (C)   Duties and Powers. In addition to the general authority as
administrative head, and not as limitation thereof, the City Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Keep the Mayor and City Council fully advised as to the financial
condition of the City and its needs. Assist in the preparation of the annual
estimates of revenues and expenditures of a proposed budget for the
presentation of a complete financial plan for the Mayor and City Council prior
to the consideration and adoption of the annual appropriation ordinance by the
Governing Body. Be responsible for the supervision and control of the budgeted
expenditures.
      (2)   Recommend to the Mayor and Council the appointment and dismissal of
all department heads over which the Administrator exercises jurisdiction. The
Administrator is responsible for the appointment and dismissal of all
subordinate employees in the departments, divisions and services over which he
or she exercises jurisdiction according to the laws of the City. The
Administrator may also provide for the transfer of such employees within such
departments, divisions and services to meet the City’s varying workload
emergencies.
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the City Council with the duty of reporting
any matter concerning City affairs under his or her supervision and direction;
and to attend such other meetings of departments and officials as his or her
duties may require, or as may be directed by the Mayor and Council.
      (4)   Make investigations into all of the affairs of the City and to make
recommendations to the Mayor and Council for the adoption of such measures and
ordinances as are deemed necessary or expedient for the good of the City
government.
      (5)   Analyze the functions, duties and activities of the various
departments, divisions and services of the City and all employees thereof, and
to make recommendations regarding the same to the Mayor and Council, and to
faithfully carry out the directions and recommendations of the Mayor and
Council in coordinating the administrative functions and operations of the
various departments, divisions and services.
      (6)   Investigate, or have investigated, all complaints filed against any
employees, departments, divisions or services of the City, and to report such
investigations with recommendations to the Mayor and City Council.
      (7)   Serve as City Planning and Zoning Director and shall advise both
the City Planning Commission and City Council in matters pertaining to City
planning.
      (8)   Perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be
required by ordinance, or prescribed by resolution of the Mayor and Council.
   (D)   Political Activity; Conflict of Interest. The City Administrator shall
not participate in any political activity on behalf of candidates or issues
involving public trust, except for the casting of an individual ballot. The
Administrator shall be an officer of the city within the meaning of section 16-
502 RS Neb., and shall be subject to and bound by the prohibitions contained
therein. (Ord. No. 512, 4/3/01)
Article 3. Bonds and Oaths
Section
   
1-301   Bonds; Requirements
   
1-302   Oath of Office; Municipal Officials
§1-301 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The City may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage. (Ref. 17-604 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the City shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the City in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The Municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required. (Ref. 11-104 RS Neb.)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)   Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten (10) days before
the first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the
election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within thirty (30) days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within thirty (30) days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which
they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, section 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska. (Ref. 11-105 RS Neb.)
   (D)   All official bonds of City officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two (2) sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the County in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a City officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two (2) or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a City
officer. (Ref. 11-109 RS Neb.)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases. (Ref.
11-110 RS Neb.)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved. (Ref. 11-111 RS Neb.)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds. (Ref. 11-112 RS Neb.)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval. (Ref. 11-113 RS Neb.)
   (I)   No City official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required. (Ref. 11-114 RS Neb.)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
(10) days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or
before the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be
deemed to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the
bond within ten (10) days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials
or before the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause
is not shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto
become vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by
election or appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the
same office. (Ref. 11-115 RS Neb.)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided. (Ref. 11-116 RS Neb.)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten (10) days from the time at
which his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified. (Ref. 11-117 RS
Neb.)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two (2)
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies. (Ref. 11-118 RS Neb.)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
City, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill the office. (Amended by Ord. No. 848, 2/
4/14)
§ 1-302 OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
   All officials of the Municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when
a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
“I ______________________________ do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, and without
mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of _____________________,
according to law, and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate, nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force, or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I
will not advocate, nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
State by force or violence. So help me God.”
(Ref. 11-101 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Corporate Seal
Section
   
1-401   Seal; Official Corporate
§ 1-401 SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.  
The official Corporate Seal of the Municipality shall be kept in the office of
the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “City of
Springfield, Corporate Seal, Sarpy County, Nebraska.” The Municipal Clerk shall
affix an impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses,
permits, ordinances, and all other official papers issued by order of the
Governing Body and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk. (Ref. 17-502 RS Neb.)
Article 5. Meetings
Section
   
1-501   Meetings; Open to Public; Notice; Agenda; Minutes
   
1-502   Meetings; Regular Meetings; Special Meetings; When; Quorum; Votes
   
1-503   Meetings; Order of Business
   
1-504   Meetings; Parliamentary Procedure
   
1-505   Meetings; Defined
   
1-506   Meetings; Public Body Defined
   
1-507   Meetings; Closed Sessions
   
1-507.01   Meetings; Prohibited Acts; Exempt Events
   
1-508   Meetings; Emergency Meetings
   
1-509   Meetings; Public Participation
   
1-510   Meetings; Videoconferencing
   
1-511   Meetings; Teleconferencing
§ 1-501 MEETINGS; OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA; MINUTES.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act. (Ref.
84-1408 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) of this
section. The notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and
to the public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body's jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper's web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three (3) conspicuous public places in
the City. The notice shall be posted in the same three (3) places for each
meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2) of
this section, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than twenty-four (24) hours before the
scheduled commencement of the meeting or forty-eight (48) hours before the
scheduled commencement of a meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the
corporate limits of the City. The public body shall have the right to modify
the agenda to include items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.)
      (6)   The minutes of the City Clerk shall include the record of the
manner and advance time by which the advance publicized notice was given, a
statement of how the availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was
communicated, the time and specific place of the meetings, and the names of
each member of the Governing Body present or absent at each convened meeting.
The minutes of the Governing Body shall be a public record open to inspection
by the public upon request at any reasonable time at the office of the City
Clerk. Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten (10)
working days or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier,
except that the City may have an additional ten (10) working days if the
employee responsible for writing the minutes is absent due to a serious illness
or emergency. Any official action on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be taken only by roll call vote of the Governing Body in open
session. The record of the Municipal Clerk shall show how each member voted, or
that the member was absent and did not vote. (Amended by Ord. No. 255, 11/1/83;
1084, 12/7/21)
§ 1-502 MEETINGS; REGULAR MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   (1)   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting
place of the Municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the first (1st)
and third (3rd) Tuesday of each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   A majority of all the members elected to the Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number may
adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members. When the
City Council consists of four (4) members as established by ordinance or home
rule charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the City Council for
purposes of establishing a quorum when the Mayor's presence is necessary to
establish the quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative
vote of at least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the
transaction of any business. (Ref. 17-105 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three (3) Councilmembers shall have power to
call special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be
submitted to the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the
disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk. (Ref.
17-106 RS Neb.)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
(2) members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be
sent for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 232, 4/5/83;
341, 2/4/92; 406, 2/20/96; 668, 12/7/04; 1085, 12/7/21)
§ 1-503 MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.  
   All meetings of the Governing Body shall be open to the public. Promptly at
the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk, the Mayor, and such other Municipal
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the Municipality shall be taken up for
consideration, and disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
§ 1-504 MEETINGS; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the Governing Body and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Governing
Body. When any person is called to order, he shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking shall rise from his
seat and address himself to the presiding officer and while speaking shall
confine himself to the question. When two (2), or more persons rise at once,
the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions
shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the
Municipal Clerk, or any member of the Governing Body. Every member of the
Governing Body who is present when a question is voted upon, shall cast his
vote unless excused by a majority of the Governing Body present. No motion
shall be put or debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by
the Mayor before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is
entered on the minutes, the name of the member of the Governing Body making the
motion, or resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the ‘’Yeas’‘ and
‘’Nays’‘ shall be taken, and entered in the minutes upon the request of any
member of the Governing Body. Before the vote is actually taken, any
resolution, motion, or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration
by the sponsor thereof with the consent of the member of the Governing Body
seconding the said resolution, motion, or ordinance. When, in the consideration
of an ordinance, different times, or amounts are proposed, the question shall
be put on the largest sum, or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall
be in order when made by a member voting with the majority, but such motion to
reconsider must be made before the expiration of the third (3rd) regular
meeting after the initial consideration of the question. When any question is
under debate, no motion shall be made, entertained, or seconded except the
previous question, a motion to table, and to adjourn. Each of the said motions
shall be decided without debate. Any of the rules of the Governing Body for
meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members present. In
all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of
Order is the authority by which the Governing Body shall decide all procedural
disputes that may arise.
§ 1-505 MEETINGS; DEFINED.
   Meetings, as used in this Article shall mean all regular, special, or called
meetings, formal or informal, of a public body for the purposes of briefing,
discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy, or the taking of
any action. (Ref. 84-1409(2) RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 183, 1/4/77; 255,
11/1/83)
§ 1-506 MEETINGS; PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
   Public Body as used in this Article shall mean:
   A.   The Governing Body of the Municipality,
   B.   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, Certificate of Need appeal panels, or any other bodies, now or
hereafter created by Constitution, statute, or otherwise pursuant to law, and
   C.   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
This Article shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body. (Ref. 84-1409(1) RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
181, 1/4/77; 255, 11/1/83)
§ 1-507 MEETINGS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if such individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
vote of each member on the question of holding a closed session, and the time
when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be recorded in the
minutes. If the motion to close passes , then the presiding officer immediately
prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the limitation of the
subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding such a closed
session only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the reason for
the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session before any
formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal action means a
collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to make a decision on
any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or ordinance or formation of
a position or policy but shall not include negotiating guidance given by
members of the public body to legal counsel or other negotiators in closed
sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) of this section.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
      (1)   The protection of the public interest or
      (2)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual.
Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the members of the
public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be recorded in the
minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. (Ref. 84-1410 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 255, 11/1/83)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 364, 3/7/95; 651, 11/2/04)
§ 1-507.01 MEETINGS; PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this Article or the Open Meetings
Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social gathering,
email, fax, or electronic communication shall be used for the purpose of
circumventing the requirements of this Article or the Act.
   (B)   This Article and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power. (Ref. 84-1410
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 651, 11/2/04)
§ 1-508 MEETINGS; EMERGENCY MEETINGS. 
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of section 1-501 of this Article shall be complied
with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes of such emergency
meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any formal action taken at
the meeting shall be made available to the public by no later than the end of
the next regular business day. (Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 255, 11/1/83)
§ 1-509 MEETINGS; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public shall
have the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies,
and all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed meetings
called pursuant to section 84-1410 RS Neb., may be videotaped, televised,
photographed, broadcast, or recorded by any person in attendance by means of a
tape recorder, camera, video equipment, or any other means of pictorial or
sonic reproduction, or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for any public body to
make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held by video
conferencing. A body is not required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person, unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this subchapter or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by
the body to be too small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of
section 84-1412 RS Neb. are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one (1) copy of all reproducible
written material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or
electronic form. Public bodies shall make available at least one (1) copy of
the Open Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to
members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be
informed about the location of the posted information.
(Ref. 84-1412 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 255, 11/1/83) (Amended by Ord. No. 1110, 9/20/
22)
§ 1-510 MEETINGS; VIDEOCONFERENCING.  
   (A)    A meeting of an organization created under the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, the Joint Public Agency Act, or the Municipal Cooperative Financing Act,
of the governing body of a public power district having a chartered territory
of more than 50 counties in this state, or of the governing body of a risk
management pool or its advisory committees organized in accordance with the
Intergovernmental Risk Management Act may be held by means of videoconferencing
if:
      (1)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given;
      (2)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio or visual recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such
as public comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided
if videoconferencing was not used;
      (3)   At least one (1) copy of all documents being considered is
available to the public at each site of the videoconference;
      (4)   At least one (1) member of the governing body or advisory committee
is present at each site of the videoconference; and
      (5)   No more than one-half of the governing body’s or advisory
committee’s meetings in a calendar year are held by videoconference.
   (B)   Videoconferencing or conferencing by other electronic communication
shall not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes
established in the Open Meetings Act. (Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies.
      VIDEOCONFERENCING. Conducting a meeting involving participants at two (2)
or more locations through the use of audio-video equipment which allows
participants at each location to hear and see each meeting participant at each
other location, including public input. Interaction between meeting
participants shall be possible at all meeting locations. (Ref. 84-1409 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 413, 6/17/97) (Amended by Ord. No. 649, 11/2/04)
§ 1-511 MEETINGS; TELECONFERENCING.  
   (A) A meeting of the governing body of an entity formed under the Interlocal
Cooperation Act or the Joint Public Agency Act, of the governing body of a
public power district having a chartered territory of more than 50 counties in
this state, or of the governing body of a risk management pool or its advisory
committees organized in accordance with the Intergovernmental Risk Management
Act may be held by telephone conference call if:
      (1)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one (1) county;
      (2)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity’s or pool’s
governing body will be present;
      (3)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (4)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public’s right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (5)   At least one (1) copy of all documents being considered is
available to the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (6)   At least one (1) member of the governing body of the entity or pool
is present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the
public notice;
      (7)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one(1) hour; and
      (8)   No more than one-half of the entity’s or pool’s meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls,
emails, faxes, or other electronic communication shall not be used to
circumvent any of the public government purposes established in the Open
Meetings Act. (Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 510, 3/20/01) (Amended by Ord.
No. 650, 11/2/04)
§ 1-512 MEETINGS; MINUTES.  
   (A) Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten (10) working days or prior to the next
convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an
additional ten (10) working days if the employee responsible for writing or
keeping the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency. (Ref. 84-
1413 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1134, 6/6/23)
Article 6. Ordinances
Section
   
1-601   Ordinances, Rules, and Resolutions; Grant of Power
   
1-602   Ordinances; Introduction
   
1-603   Ordinances; Resolutions and Motions
   
1-604   Ordinances; Style
   
1-605   Ordinances; Title
   
1-606   Ordinances; Reading and Passage of Ordinances, Resolutions, Orders,
Bylaws
   
1-607   Ordinances; Publication or Posting
   
1-608   Ordinances; Certificate of Publication
   
1-609   Ordinances; Effective Date; Emergency Ordinances
   
1-610   Ordinances; Amendments and Revisions
§ 1-601 ORDINANCES, RULES, AND RESOLUTIONS; GRANT OF POWER.
The Governing Body may make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Nebraska, as may be
expedient for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the
Municipality and its trade, commerce, and manufactories. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 414, 6/17/97)
§ 1-602 ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the Governing Body in one of
the following ways:
   (1)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Governing Body, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Municipal
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (2)    With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the Governing Body, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration. (Amended by Ord. No. 415, 6/17/
97)
§ 1-603 ORDINANCES; RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.     
   Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one (1) time in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by said
resolutions or motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote
shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution
or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 1-604 ORDINANCES; STYLE.
   The style of all Municipal ordinances shall be:
   “Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of Springfield,
Nebraska.” (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-605 ORDINANCES; TITLE.
   No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title.
(Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
§ 1-606 ORDINANCES; READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS,
BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation
or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence
of a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote
when his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the
number of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the
Council, and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a
member of the Council.
      (2)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three (3) different days, unless three-fourths (¾) of the City Council vote
to suspend this requirement. This requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory, the redrawing of boundaries for City
Council election districts or wards, or as otherwise provided in section 17-614
(3) RS Neb., or as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths (¾) of the City Council may require a reading of any
such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section. (Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Ref. 17-616 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 365, 3/7/95; 416, 6/17/97; 849, 2/
4/14; 1111, 9/20/22)
§ 1-607 ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within fifteen (15) days after they are passed:
   (1)   In a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city or, if
no paper is published in the City, then by posting a written or printed copy in
each of three (3) public places in the City; or
   (2)   In book, or pamphlet, or electronic form.  
(Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 417, 6/17/97; 978, 8/7/18; 1112, 9/
20/22)
§ 1-608 ORDINANCES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the Seal of the Municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-609 ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.     
   (1) Except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, an ordinance for
the government of the Municipality which has been adopted by the Governing Body
without submission to the voters of the Municipality shall not go into effect
until fifteen (15) days after the passage of the ordinance.
   (2)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three (3) of the most public
places in the Municipality. Such emergency ordinance shall recite the
emergency, be passed by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the Governing Body, and
be entered of record on the Municipal Clerk’s minutes. (Ref. 17-613, 19-3701 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 418, 6/17/97)
§ 1-610 ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the Municipality and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law. (Ref. 17-614 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 419, 6/17/97)
Article 7. Elections
Section
   
1-701   Elections; Generally
   
1-701.01   Elections; Election of Officers; Certifications Required
   
1-702   Elections; Filing Fee
   
1-703   Elections; Primary or General Election Notice
   
1-704   Elections; Special
   
1-705   Elections; Special Election Notice
   
1-706   Elections; Petition, Write-in, and Other Candidates for General
Election Ballot; Procedures
   
1-707   Elections; Councilmembers
   
1-708   Elections; Voter Qualifications
   
1-709   Elections; Officials
   
1-710   Elections; Wards
   
1-711   Elections; Ballots
   
1-712   Elections; Certificate of Election
   
1-713   Election; Organizational Meeting
   
1-714   Elections; Recall Procedure
   
1-715   Elections; Candidate Qualifications
   
1-716   Elections; Extension of Terms
   
1-717   Elections; Primary Election, Number of Candidates Filing
   
1-718   Elections; Primary Election, Write-in Candidates
   
1-719   Elections; Tie Votes
   
1-720   Elections; General Election, Preparation of Ballot
   
1-721   Elections; Election to Terms
   
1-722   Elections; Candidate Filing Forms; Deadlines; Filing Officer
   
1-723   Mayor; Election; Qualifications; Term
   
1-724   Elections; Exit Polls; Poll Watchers
§ 1-701 ELECTIONS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   All Municipal issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if Municipal offices
or issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All Municipal elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election. (Ref. 32-556 RS Neb.)
   (B)   When the Municipality holds an election in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided
in the Election Act. Any other election held by the Municipality shall be held
as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code,
or bylaws of the Municipality. (Ref. 32-404 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos.
184, 1/4/77; 652, 11/2/04)
§ 1-701.01 ELECTIONS; ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.  
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, on forms prescribed
by such official, the name of the City, the number of officers to be elected,
the length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office. (Ref. 32-404 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 652, 11/2/04)
§ 1-702 ELECTIONS; FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, a filing
fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for
city office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general
fund of the city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, the filing
fee shall be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the
year preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a
candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer. Any undeclared write-in candidate who is nominated or
elected by write-in votes shall pay the filing fee required for the office
within ten days after the canvass of votes by the county canvassing board and
shall file the receipt with the person issuing the certificate of nomination or
the certificate of election prior to the certificate being issued.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            (i)   Real property used as a home;
            (ii)   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            (iii)   Assets to a maximum value of three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) used by a recipient in a planned effort directed towards self-
support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded. (Ref. 32-608 RS Neb.) (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 185, 1/4/77; 889, 7/21/15)
§ 1-703 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY OR GENERAL ELECTION NOTICE.
   The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County Board
the notice of the election no less than forty (40) days prior to the Primary or
General Election. This notice will serve the notice requirement for all
Municipal Elections which are held in conjunction with the County. (Ref. 32-
402.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 168, 9/2/75; 210, 11/6/79)
§ 1-704 ELECTIONS; SPECIAL.     
    (A)   (1)   Except as provided in section 77-3444 RS Neb., any issue to be
submitted to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or
before the eighth (8th) Friday prior to the election. A special election may be
held by mail as provided in sections 32-952 through 32-959 RS Neb. Any other
special election under this section shall be subject to division (B) of this
section.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) of this section may cancel the special election if the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a
resolution adopted by the political subdivision canceling the special election
on or before the fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall
be effective after such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner,
the city shall be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the
canceled election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in
section 32-1202 RS Neb. associated with preparing for and conducting a special
election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2) of
this section may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
city withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot. (Ref. 32-559 RS Neb.)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to sections 13-519 or 77-3444 RS Neb. to approve a
property tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation. (Ref. 32-405 RS
Neb.)   (Amended by Ord. Nos. 268, 12/4/84; 420, 7/1/97; 633, 1/6/04; 1086, 12/
7/21; 1141, 6/6/23)
§ 1-705 ELECTIONS; SPECIAL ELECTION NOTICE.  
(Repealed by Ord. No. 717, 7/5/06)
§ 1-706 ELECTIONS; PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL
ELECTION BALLOT; PROCEDURES.     
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, files as a
write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by
political party convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710. (Neb. RS
32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the City, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in Neb. RS 32-607. Petition signers and petition
circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No
petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a
receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-
608. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election. (Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of registered voters
voting for Governor or President of the United States at the immediately
preceding general election in the City or in the ward in which the officer is
to be elected, not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least four thousand (4,000), and at least seven hundred
fifty (750) signatures shall be obtained in each congressional district in the
state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least twenty percent (20%) of the total number of registered
voters voting for Governor or President of the United States at the immediately
preceding general election within the County, not to exceed two thousand
(2,000), except that the number of signatures shall not be required to exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of registered voters voting for
the office at the immediately preceding general election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a County, at least twenty percent (20%)
of the total number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of
the United States at the immediately preceding general election within the
political subdivision, not to exceed two thousand (2,000).
(Ref. 32-618 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 209, 11/6/79; 268, 12/4/84; 446, 7/
21/98; 600, 4/1/03; 811, 6/19/12; 890, 7/21/15; 953, 5/2/17; 1030, 7/21/20)
§ 1-707 ELECTIONS; COUNCILMEMBERS.
   Councilmembers shall be elected from the Municipality at large unless the
residents of the Municipality have voted to elect its Councilmembers by wards.
Councilmembers shall serve for a term of four (4) years and shall be a resident
and qualified elector. If the election of Councilmembers takes place by wards,
each nominee for Councilmember shall be a resident and qualified elector of the
ward for which he is a candidate, and only residents of that ward may sign the
candidate’s nomination petitions. (Ref. 32-533 RS Neb.)
§ 1-708 ELECTIONS; VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.   
   Electors shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Nebraska, except school elections; provided, no
person shall be qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a
resident of the State and shall have been properly registered with the election
official of the county. (Ref. 32-102 RS Neb.)
§ 1-709 ELECTIONS; OFFICIALS.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 447, 7/21/98)
§ 1-710 ELECTIONS; WARDS. 
   The Municipality shall redistrict as often as necessary using the most
recent Federal Census to insure that each ward is substantially equal in
population.  (Ref. 17-102 RS Neb.)
§ 1-711 ELECTIONS; BALLOTS.  
   It shall be the duty of the County Clerk to provide printed ballots for
every general Municipal election and the expense of printing and delivering the
ballots and cards of instruction shall be a charge upon the Municipality. All
Council members shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan ballot unless
the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. (Ref. 32-417, 32-418 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 959, 5/2/17)
§ 1-712 ELECTIONS; CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.  
(Repealed by Ord. No. 652, 11/2/04)
§ 1-713 ELECTION; ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.  
(Repealed by Ord. No. 181, 1/4/77)
§ 1-714 ELECTIONS; RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk. (Ref. 32-1301 RS
Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election. (Ref. 32-1302 RS
Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least thirty-five percent (35%) of the total vote cast for that office in the
last general election, except that for City Council office for which more than
one (1) candidate is chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters
equal in number to at least thirty-five percent (35%) of the number of votes
cast for the person receiving the most votes for such office in the last
general election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall
be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of sections
32-629 and 32-630 RS Neb.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one (1) registered voter.
Such voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or
circulators of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and
office of the official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language
of sixty (60) words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought,
and shall request that the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the
principal circulator for circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the
official sought to be removed by any method specified in section 25-505.01 RS
Neb. or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the
methods specified in section 25-505.01 RS Neb., by leaving a copy of the filing
form at the official’s usual place of residence and mailing a copy by first-
class mail to the official's last-known address. If the official chooses, he or
she may submit a defense statement in concise language of sixty (60) words or
less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall be
submitted to the filing clerk within twenty (20) days after the official
receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare the
petition papers within five (5) business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within twenty (20) days after being notified by the filing clerk that
the petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
thirty (30) days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of sections 32-
629 and 32-630 RS Neb. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered
voter and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question. (Ref. 32-1303 RS Neb.)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of section 32-
1304 RS Neb.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within thirty (30) days after the filing
clerk issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or
circulators as provided in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   Within fifteen (15) business days after the filing of the petition,
the filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose. (Ref. 32-1305 RS Neb.)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in section 25-505.01 RS
Neb. or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the
methods specified in section 25-505.01 RS Neb., by leaving such notice at the
official's usual place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to
the official’s last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within twenty-one (21) days after receipt
of the notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) of this
section, order an election. The date of the election shall be the first
available date that complies with section 32-405 RS Neb. and that can be
certified to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk at least fifty (50) days
prior to the election, except that if any other election is to be held in the
city within ninety (90) days after such notification, the City Council shall
provide for the holding of the recall election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in section 32-562 RS
Neb. If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election
is held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall election
shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election. (Ref. 32-1306 RS Neb.)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) of this section shall conform to the requirements of section 32-
1307 RS Neb.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I) of
this section.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and sections 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574 RS Neb.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to one percent
(1%) or less between the removal or retention of the official in question, the
Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a
recount of the votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a
written statement with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half (1/2) or more of
the members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to
the recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Ref. 32-1308 RS Neb.)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within twelve (12) months after a recall election has failed to remove
him or her from office or within six (6) months after the beginning of his or
her term of office or within six (6) months prior to the incumbent filing
deadline for the office. (Ref. 32-1309 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 812, 6/
19/12; 921, 5/17/16; 1031, 7/21/20; 1087, 12/7/21; 1139, 6/6/23)
§ 1-715 ELECTIONS; CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
   Any person seeking elected office in the Municipality shall be a registered
voter prior to holding such office and in addition shall have reached the age
of majority. The Mayor and members of the Council shall be residents and
qualified electors of the City. They shall not hold any other public elective
public office, except for officers of public power districts, public power and
irrigation districts, and public utility companies. (Ref. 17-108.02 RS Neb.) 
(Ord. No. 268, 12/4/84)
§ 1-716 ELECTIONS; EXTENSION OF TERMS.
   (1)   The term of office of any member of the Governing Body that would
expire prior to the first regular Council meeting in December, 1976, is hereby
extended to December, 1976.
   (2)   The term of office of any member that would expire after December,
1976, but prior to the first regular Council meeting in December, 1978, is
hereby extended to the first regular meeting in December, 1978. (Ref. 17-107.01
(2)(3) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 184, 1/4/77)
§ 1-717 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION, NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.   
   If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two (2) for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated, and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required. (Ref. 17-107.02(4) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 184, 1/4/
77)
§ 1-718 ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION, WRITE-IN CANDIDATES.
   When the name of a candidate who did not file or become a petition candidate
for nomination is written in and voted for as a candidate for a Councilmember,
such person shall not be entitled to a certificate of nomination at the
statewide primary election nor have his name placed on the general election
ballot unless he shall have received not less than twenty percent (20%) of the
total votes cast for the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes in
the precinct or ward or the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes of
the at-large candidates, whichever the case may be, at the preceding election
in which candidates where elected to serve the ward, or of the at-large
candidates if the election was held at large. (Ref. 17-107.02(6) RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 184, 1/4/77)
§ 1-719 ELECTIONS; TIE VOTES.
   In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before the
canvassing board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be given
accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail. (Ref. 17-107.02
(6) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 184, 1/4/77)
§ 1-720 ELECTIONS; GENERAL ELECTION, PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
   When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition, or write-
in procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in
preparing the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the
names of the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary,
but in no event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than
twice the number of vacancies to be filled at the general election. (Ref. 17-
107.02(7) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 184, 1/4/77)
§ 1-721 ELECTIONS; ELECTION TO TERMS.   
   The candidates shall be placed on the general election ballot and the
candidates receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected to terms of
the longest duration, and those receiving the next greatest number of votes
shall be elected to the remaining term or terms. The County Clerk shall place
the names of the candidates on the general election ballot in the direct order
according to the number of votes received at the primary election. The term of
office of all such members shall commence on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following their election. Any vacancy on the Council or in
the office of Mayor resulting from causes other than expiration of the term
shall be filled by vote of the remaining members as provided in section 1-105
or section 1-106. (Ord. No. 184, 1/4/77)
§ 1-722 ELECTIONS; CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER. 
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the general election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B). If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
January 5 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between January 5 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election. (Ref. 32-606 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk. (Ref. 32-607 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 813, 6/19/12) (Amended by Ord. No. 1113, 9/20/22)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see 32-625 and 32-627 RS Neb.
   Withdrawal after filing, see 32-622 RS Neb.
§ 1-723 MAYOR; ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act. The Mayor
shall take office on the date of the first regular meeting of the City Council
held in December following the statewide general election. The Mayor shall be a
resident and registered voter of the city. (Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four (4) years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified. (Ref. 32-533 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 814, 6/19/12)
§1-724  ELECTIONS; EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within twenty (20) feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if
inside the polling place or building, within one-hundred (100) feet of any
voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter's ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker's duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in section 32-918 RS Neb. unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in section 32-918 RS Neb.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
section 32-1524 RS Neb. while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight (8) feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight (8) feet, the judge of election
shall post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from
the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box,
and any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher from being in the polling place. (Ref. 32-1525 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No.
1080, 12/7/21)
Article 8. Fiscal Management
Section
   
1-801   Fiscal Management; Fiscal Year
   
1-801.01   Fiscal Management; Definitions
   
1-802   Fiscal Management; Proposed Budget Statement; Contents; Availability;
Correction
   
1-803   Fiscal Management; Proposed Budget Statement; Hearing; Adoption;
Certification of Tax Amount
   
1-804   Fiscal Management; Adopted Budget Statement; Filing; Certification of
Amount of Tax
   
1-804.01   Fiscal Management; Expenditures Prior to Adoption of Budget
   
1-805   Fiscal Management; Budget Procedure.
   
1-806   Fiscal Management; Appropriations
   
1-807   Fiscal Management; Property Tax; Certification of Amount
   
1-808   Fiscal Management; Expenditures
   
1-809   Fiscal Management; Contracts and Purchases; Bidding and Other
Requirements
   
1-810   Fiscal Management; Annual Audit; Financial Statements
   
1-811   Fiscal Management; Claims
   
1-812   Fiscal Management; Warrants
   
1-813   Fiscal Management; Transfer of Funds
   
1-814   Fiscal Management; Special Assessment Fund
   
1-815   Fiscal Management; Sinking Funds; Gifts of Money or Property
   
1-816   Fiscal Management; General Fund
   
1-817   Fiscal Management; Deposit of Funds
   
1-818   Fiscal Management; Investment of Funds
   
1-819   Fiscal Management; Bond Issues
   
1-820   Fiscal Management; Motor Vehicle Fee
   
1-821   Fiscal Management; Property Tax Levy; Maximum; Authority to Exceed
   
1-822   Fiscal Management; Property Tax Request; Procedure for Setting
   
1-823   Fiscal Management; Certificates of Deposit; Time Deposits; Conditions
   
1-824   Fiscal Management; Credit Cards and Electronic Funds Transfers;
Authority to Accept
   
1-825   Fiscal Management; Revision of Budget
   
1-826   Fiscal Management; Sales Tax
   
1-827   Fiscal Management; Debt Collection;Authority to Contract with
Collection Agency
§ 1-801 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; FISCAL YEAR.  
   The fiscal year of the Municipality and any public utility of the
Municipality commences on October 1 and extends through the following September
30 except as provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act. (Ref. 17-701
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 390, 12/19/95)
§ 1-801.01 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEFINITIONS.   
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the City that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the City's financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two (2) fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing
in odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the City has a lottery established under the
Nebraska County and Village Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are
actually received by the City from a licensed lottery operator shall be
considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as
prizes. (Ref. 13-503 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 366, 3/7/95) (Amended by Ord. No. 850,
2/4/14)
§ 1-802 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY;
CORRECTION.
   (A)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to section 13-506 RS Neb. A proposed budget statement shall
contain the following information, except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a grand total
of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources. (Ref. 13-504 RS
Neb.)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period. (Ref. 13-505 RS Neb.)  
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 270, 12/4/84; 421, 6/17/97; 448, 7/21/98; 508, 3/20/01;
603, 4/1/03; 851, 2/4/14; 1137, 6/6/23)
§ 1-803 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION;
CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.   
   (A)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a public
hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held separately
from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall not be
limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least four (4)
calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four (4) calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per year or twenty thousand dollars
($20,000) per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted at the
City Council's principal headquarters. At such hearing, the governing body
shall make at least three (3) copies of the proposed budget statement available
to the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions of the
proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison with the
prior year's budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the proposed
budget statement shall be allowed to address the governing body at the hearing
and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within twenty (20) calendar days after its adoption in the manner
provided in this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the
items changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the Nebraska Budget
Act or sections 13-518 to 13-522 RS Neb. If the Auditor detects such errors, he
or she shall immediately notify the City Council of such errors. The City
Council shall correct any such error as provided in section 13-506 RS Neb.
Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted under
this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for
which the Auditor has notified the City Council. (Ref. 13-506 RS Neb.)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase. (Ref.
13-507 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 449, 7/21/98; 604, 4/1/03; 852, 2/4/14;
979, 8/7/18; 1088, 12/7/21; 1138, 6/6/23)
§ 1-804 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF
AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with sections 13-518 to 13-522 RS Neb., together with the amount of
the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is ten
percent (10%) or more at the time of the filing and certification required
under this division, the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may
make allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding five percent (5%) of the
amount required plus the actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the
preceding tax year or biennial period and for the amount of estimated tax loss
from any pending or anticipated litigation which involves taxation and in which
tax collections have been or can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For
purposes of this section, anticipated litigation shall be limited to the
anticipation of an action being filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a
similar action for the preceding year or biennial period which is still
pending. Except for such allowances, the City Council shall not certify an
amount of tax more than one percent (1%) greater or lesser than the amount
determined under section 13-505 RS Neb.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to section 13-509 RS Neb. for the current year in
setting or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its
members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this
section. (Ref. 13-508 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 207, 11/6/79; 391, 12/19/
95; 422, 6/17/97; 450, 7/21/98; 853, 2/4/14; 980, 8/7/18; 1114, 9/20/22; 1131,
6/6/23)
§ 1-804.01 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the City.
Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the expenditures shall not
exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget
in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. The
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted. (Ref. 13-509.01 RS
Neb.)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) of this section may be
exceeded upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond
the amount authorized are necessary to enable the City to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in
open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged
against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the
budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision. (Ref. 13-509.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 367, 3/7/95) (Amended
by Ord. No. 854, 2/4/14)
§ 1-805 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET PROCEDURE.
     The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the
Auditor of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 1-806 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; APPROPRIATIONS. 
   The Governing Body shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the Nebraska
Budget Act, to be termed "The Annual Appropriation Bill", in which are
appropriated such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the City. (Ref. 17-706 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. No. 392, 12/19/95)
§ 1-807 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT.
   The Governing Body shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the Municipality which the
Municipality requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. Subject to section 77-3442 RS Neb., the maximum amount of tax which
may be so certified, assessed, and collected shall not require a tax levy in
excess of the amounts specified in section 17-702 RS Neb. (Ref. 17-702 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 451, 7/21/98)  
§ 1-808 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES.
   No Municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw
any order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has
been appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement
to be paid for out of the general fund of the Municipality shall exceed in any
one (1) year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement. (Ref. 17-708 RS Neb.)
§ 1-809 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in section 18-412.01 RS Neb. for a contract with a
public power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric
distribution, transmission, or generation system of the municipal, no contract
for enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers,
public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property, costing over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by
the governing body.
   (B)   Except as provided in section 18-412.01 RS Neb., before the governing
body makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) of this section, the
governing body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   $30,000 or less;
      (2)   $60,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   $90,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual
revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   $120,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross
annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) of this section shall
be published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
in or of general circulation in the municipality. In case of a public emergency
resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms,
floods, snow, war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious
injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by
section 17-613 RS Neb. when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the governing
body and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two (2) bids on a contract or if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the municipal, the governing body
or Board of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those
materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is
provided by the manufacturer. (Ref. 17-568.01 RS Neb.)
   (H)   Any municipal bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body or
Board of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in sections 81-145 through 81-
162 RS Neb.;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to section 48-1503 RS Neb.; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Ref. 17-568.02 RS Neb.)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with
any county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal
property without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been
established by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel
division of the Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes but is not limited to supplies, materials,
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board, or other agency.
      PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means. (Ref. 18-1756 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
186, 1/4/77; 219, 4/1/80; 310, 9/19/89; 439, 10/7/97; 455, 7/21/98; 815, 6/19/
12; 981, 8/7/18)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see 73-101 et seq. RS Neb.
§ 1-810 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   The Governing Body shall cause an audit of the Municipal accounts to be made
by a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of
the fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the Governing Body. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six (6) months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
(3) copies of the audit report to the Governing Body. All public utilities or
other enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be
audited separately, except in Villages having a population of less than eight
hundred (800), and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the
annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall
contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the Municipality
as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial
statements. Two (2) copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal
Clerk's office, and will at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One (1) copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts;
provided, that all Villages may file an unaudited statement of cash receipts
and disbursements annually in lieu of an annual audit. Such unaudited statement
shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts in a form prescribed by him.
The unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements shall become a part
of the public records of the Municipal Clerk and shall at all times thereafter
be open and subject to public inspection. Every Governing Body that is required
herein to submit to an audit of its accounts shall provide and file with the
Municipal Clerk, not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements
showing its actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year. (Ref. 19-2901 through 19-2909, 13-606 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 206,
11/6/79; 269, 12/4/84)
§ 1-811 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CLAIMS.   
   All claims against the Municipality shall be presented to the Governing Body
in writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this section. No costs
shall be recovered against the Municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Governing Body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order, or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of eighty-five (85%) percent of the current
levy for the purpose for which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient
money in the Municipal Treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to
be drawn; provided, that in the event there exists obligated funds from the
Federal and/or State government for the general purpose of such warrant, then
such warrant may be drawn in excess of eighty-five percent (85%), but not more
than one hundred (100%) percent of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn. (Ref. 17-714, 17-715 RS Neb.)
§ 1-812 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the particular fund to which
the warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of
the expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn.
Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement
for the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such
fund. (Ref. 17-711 RS Neb.)
§ 1-813 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
     The Governing Body may, whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent due to unforeseen emergencies that there is temporarily insufficient
money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted budget of
expenditures for that fund, by a majority vote transfer money from other funds
to such fund. No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of
the amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized
herein. If, as the result of unforeseen circumstances, the revenue of the
current fiscal year shall be insufficient, the Governing Body may propose to
supplement the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing at which time any taxpayer may appear, or file a written statement
protesting the application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings. Notice of a place, and time for the said hearing shall be
published at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality. The published notice
shall set forth the time, and place of the proposed hearing, the amount of
additional money required, the purpose of the required money, a statement
setting forth the reasons why the adopted budget of expenditures cannot be
reduced to meet the need for additional money, and a copy of the summary of the
originally adopted budget previously published. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing on the proposed supplemental budget, and the approval by the
Governing Body, the Governing Body shall file with the County Clerk and the
Nebraska State Auditor a copy of the supplemental budget, and shall certify the
amount of additional tax to be levied. The Governing Body may then issue
warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted supplemental
budget. The said warrants shall be referred to as "registered warrants," and
shall be repaid during the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes
levied therefor. (Ref. 13-510, 13-511 RS Neb.)
§ 1-814 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT  FUND.
   All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the Municipality for money expended for any such
improvement. (Ref. 17-710 RS Neb.)
§ 1-815 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one (1) or more of
the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the City for City library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216. (Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each one
hundred dollars ($100.00) in any one (1) year upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property within the City for a term of not to exceed ten (10) years, in
addition to the amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of
the adopted budget statement of the City, for the purpose of establishing a
sinking fund for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original
equipment, or repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the
following public improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to
the making thereof: City libraries; City auditoriums or community houses for
social or recreational purposes; City halls; City public libraries,
auditoriums, or community houses in a single building; City swimming pools;
City jails; City fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or
apparatus; City parks; City cemeteries; City medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or City hospitals. The City shall not be authorized
to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this division
if, having bonded indebtedness, such City has been in default in the payment of
interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten (10) years prior to
the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the submission of the
proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required in division (C).
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned City improvements mentioned in division (B)
by the City, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit
to the qualified electors of the City at the next general City election the
proposition to provide the City with the specific City improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten (10) years, required to provide such cost,
and the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be
established to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of
the proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three (3)
successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the City or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the City, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the County in which the City is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the City cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division, the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do all
things authorized under such resolution of submission but never inconsistent
with this section. The election provided for under this section shall be
conducted as provided under the Election Act. (Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in Neb. RS 17-540. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds
are made, as aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported
to the City Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record
by the City Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by sixty percent (60%) of the qualified electors of the City voting
at a general election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds. The question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one (1) year from and after the date of such election. (Neb. RS
19-1304)
(Amended by Ord. No. 1032, 7/21/20)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 1-816 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; GENERAL FUND.
   All money not specifically appropriated in the annual appropriation bill
shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 1-817 FISCAL  MANAGEMENT; DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
    (A)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on deposit,
for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or qualifying
mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing, all money
collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. Such deposits
shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the City
Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a stockholder,
director, or other officer of such bank, capital stock financial institution,
or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as Mayor, as a
member of the City Council, or as any other officer of the city shall not
disqualify such bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution from acting as a depository for such municipal funds.
   (B)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions (1) a bond in such
penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the amount
insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu
thereof, (2) security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security
Act to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The City Council
shall approve such bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer shall not be
liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the failure of any such
depository so designated and approved. (Ref. 17-607 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by such corporation,
and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or other
security shall be required. (Ref. 77-2362 RS Neb.)
   (D)   Section 77-2366 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions. Section 77- 2365.01 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in
qualifying mutual financial institutions. (Ref. 17-607, 77-2362 RS Neb.)    
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 542, 4/2/02; 608, 4/1/03; 636, 1/6/04)
§ 1-818 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Whenever a city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in excess of its
current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment of its bonds
and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to pay the
principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the current
year, the Governing Body of such city may invest any such surplus in
certificates of deposit, in time deposits, and in any securities in which the
State Investment Officer is authorized by law and as provided in the authorized
investment guidelines of the Nebraska Investment Council in effect on the date
the investment is made. (Ref. 17-608, 17-609, 21-1316.01, 77-2341 RS Neb.) 
(Amended by Ord. No. 322, 3/13/90)
§ 1-819 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BOND ISSUES.
   The Governing Body may, after meeting all the requirements of State law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by State law. The Governing Body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by State law.
(Ref. 10-201 through 10-411, 10-601 through 10-614, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-5-
29.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-958, 17-968, 18-1801 through
18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836 RS Neb.)
§ 1-820 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE MUNICIPALITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the municipality.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. Person does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) of this section, the
governing body of the municipality shall have power to require any individual
whose primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within
the limits of the municipality and that owns and operates a motor vehicle
within such limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the
payment of such fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees
which may be provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for
constructing, repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys,
public ways, or parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness
when created for such purposes.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the municipality for
a period of six (6) months or less in a twelve (12)-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the municipality and does not
own and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the municipality; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the municipality and the motor vehicle's situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at
which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the municipality.
   (E)   Until the implementation date designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles under section 23-186 RS Neb., the fee shall be paid to the designated
county official of the county in which the city is located when the
registration fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle Registration Act are paid.
These fees shall be remitted to the County Treasurer for credit to the road
fund of the city. On and after the implementation date designated under section
23-186 RS Neb., the fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer for credit to
such road fund. (Ref. 18-1214 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 321, 3/13/90) (Amended by Ord.
No. 816, 6/19/12)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of county official, see 23-186 RS Neb.
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see 60-301 RS Neb.
§ 1-821 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C). The city may levy a
maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject to the
levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city's share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to section 51-201 RS Neb., museum pursuant
to section 51-501 RS Neb., visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home
health agency pursuant to section 71-1637 RS Neb., or statue, memorial, or
monument pursuant to section 80-202 RS Neb. Property tax levies for judgments,
except judgments or orders from the Commission of Industrial Relations,
obtained against the city which require or obligate the city to pay that
judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior
to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured
by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-
free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a
lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy limits
established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided in
this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies provided
by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions to the
limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under section 77-1606 RS Neb. unless approved
under division (C). (Ref. 77-3442 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and offstreet parking districts established
under the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes as
authorized by law which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A), except that such limitation
shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. For off-street parking
districts established under the Offstreet Parking District Act, the tax shall
be counted in the allocation by the city proportionately, by dividing the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the district by the total
taxable valuation of the taxable property within the city multiplied by the
levy of the district. The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove
the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this division (B).
The City Council may approve all or a portion of the levy request and may
approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than that permitted by
law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as provided in division
(C).
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in section 77-3444 RS
Neb. to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue. (Ref. 77-3443 RS
Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) by an
amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the first to
exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the City Council and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least five percent (5%) of the registered voters residing
in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five (5) years. Any resolution or petition calling for
a special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time
of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in
section 32-802 RS Neb. shall be no later than twenty (20) days prior to the
election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least thirty-one (31) days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The
election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with
the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition
shall be in the form as provided in sections 32-628 through 32-631 RS Neb.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8), whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass no more than one (1) resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one (1) calendar year.
Only one (1) election may be held in any one (1) calendar year pursuant to a
petition initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any
terms and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include
the language specified in section 77-3444 RS Neb.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least five percent (5%) of the registered voters residing
in the city.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five (5) years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least thirty-one (31) days after receipt of
the resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of
the notice of election required in section 32-802 RS Neb. shall be no later
than twenty (20) days prior to the election. The election shall be held
pursuant to the Election Act. (Ref. 77-3444 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 452, 7/21/98)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 493, 7/5/00; 606, 4/1/03; 982, 8/7/18; 1135, 6/6/23)
§ 1-822 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision’s principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 17 and
prior to September 29 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to section 13-508 RS
Neb.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County Clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the representative of each
political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision’s budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by___ percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The City of Springfield, Nebraska proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of the City of Springfield, Nebraska
will exceed last year’s by ___ percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the City of Springfield, Nebraska at
(telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (5)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (6)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county’s website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (7)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall send the information prescribed in division (C)(8) of this
section to the County Clerk by September 5. The County Clerk shall transmit the
information to the County Assessor no later than September 10. The County Clerk
shall notify each participating political subdivision of the date, time, and
location of the joint public hearing. The County Assessor shall send the
information required to be included on the postcards pursuant to division (C)
(8) of this section to a printing service designated by the County Board. The
initial cost for printing the postcards shall be paid from the county general
fund. Such postcards shall be mailed at least seven (7) calendar days before
the joint public hearing. The cost of creating and mailing the postcards,
including staff time, materials, and postage, shall be charged proportionately
to the political subdivisions participating in the joint public hearing based
on the total number of parcels in each participating political subdivision.
      (8)   The postcard sent under this division and the notice posted on the
county’s website, if required under division (C)(6)(b) of this section, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision’s property tax request. The
postcard shall also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(8)(a) of this section;
         (c)   The following statement: The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY
MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates;
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property’s assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property’s assessed value for the current tax year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) of this
section, the governing body of each participating political subdivision shall
pass an ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision’s property
tax request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax
request over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess
of the allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by ____ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $ ___ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The City of Springfield, Nebraska proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $___ per $100 of assessed value;
and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of City of Springfield, Nebraska will
exceed last year’s by ___ percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report which
shall include:
         (a)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing; and
         (b)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual. Such report shall be delivered to the political
subdivisions participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after
such hearing. (Ref. 77-1633 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 423, 6/17/97) (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 453, 7/21/98; 494, 7/5/00; 1033, 7/21/20; 1115, 9/20/22; 1136, 6/6/23)
§ 1-823 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the State of Nebraska to the extent that such
certificates of deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the
amounts so secured by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit
shall be secured by a bond or by security given in the same manner as is
provided for cities of the first class in sections 16-714 to 16-716 RS Neb.
Section 77-2366 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Section 77-2365.01 RS Neb. shall apply to deposits in qualifying
mutual financial institutions. (Ref. 17-720 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 454, 7/21/98)
(Amended by Ord. No. 543, 4/2/02)
§ 1-824 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CREDIT CARDS AND ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS;
AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   The Governing Body may authorize municipal officials to accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by section 77-1702 RS Neb.
   (B)   The total amount of such taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the
municipal official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Governing Body may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards,
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The municipal official shall obtain, for each transaction,
authorization for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used
pursuant to this section from the financial institution, vending service
company, credit card or charge card company, or third-party merchant bank
providing such service.
   (E)   The Governing Body may choose to participate in the state contract for
such payment services. If the Governing Body chooses not to participate in the
state contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards, and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one (1) or more financial institutions, vending
service companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-
party merchant banks for the provision of such services.
   (F)   When authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments,
the Governing Body shall be authorized but not required to impose a surcharge
or convenience fee upon the person making a payment by credit card or charge
card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or
administrative fees charged to the municipality, but the surcharge or
convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge or convenience fee imposed by
the credit card or charge card companies or third-party merchant banks which
have contracted with the state or under division (E) of this section. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the Municipality by credit card or
charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of
such surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by such person and
shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit
card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system
for providing or retrieving information electronically, the municipal official
shall be authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or
convenience fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, electronic funds transfer means the
movement of funds by nonpaper means, usually through a payment system,
including, but not limited to, an automated clearinghouse or the Federal
Reserve's Fedwire system. (Ref. 13-609 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 456, 7/21/98)
(Amended by Ord. No. 607, 4/1/03)
§ 1-825 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; REVISION OF BUDGET.   
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated sections 13-518 through 13-522 RS
Neb., such that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof
will be insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or
there is a need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with sections 13-
518 through 13-522 RS Neb.; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to section 81-829.51 RS Neb.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the Council's jurisdiction. This published notice shall set
forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the City
Council shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within thirty (30) days after the adoption of the budget under section
1-804, the City Council may, or within thirty (30) days after notification of
an error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the City Council shall correct an
adopted budget which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error
which does not affect the total amount budgeted by more than one percent (1%)
or increase the amount required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be
required for such a correction. After correction, the City Council shall file a
copy of the corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in
which the City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
City Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by
the budget. (Ref. 13-511 RS Neb.) (Ord. 492, 7/5/00) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 544,
4/2/02; 605, 4/1/03; 922, 5/17/16)
§ 1-826 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SALES TAX.     
   (A)   There is hereby imposed and levied for the benefit of the City of
Springfield a one and one-half (1½) percent sales and use tax upon the same
transactions within the corporate limits of the City of Springfield on which
the State of Nebraska is authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the provisions
of the Nebraska Revenue Act of 1967, as amended from time to time. (Ref. 77-
27,142 et seq. RS Neb.)
   (B)   The sales and use tax hereby levied shall take effect on April 1,
2011, and shall apply to all taxable transactions on and after that date within
the corporate limits of the City of Springfield, as said corporate limits may
from time to time thereafter be constituted. (Ref. 77-27,142 et seq. RS Neb.)
   (C)   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed hereby, the making
of return for ascertainment, assessment and collection and for the distribution
of the taxes so imposed shall be as provided in the Local Option Revenue Act,
Sections 77-27,142 to 77-17,148, RS Neb., as amended from time to time. (Ref.
77-27,142 et seq. RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 783, 11/16/10)
§1-827 FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH
COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act, sections 46-601 et. seq. RS Neb., within or
without this state, for the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any
person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) of this section may be assigned
to a collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least thirty (30) days have elapsed from the time the notice was
sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be twenty-five dollars ($25) or four and one-half percent (4.5%) of the
debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee shall be paid by the person who
owes the debt directly to the person or agency providing the collection
service. (Ref. 45-623 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 1081, 12/7/21)
Article 9. Compensation
Section
   
1-901   Compensation; Conflict of Interest
§ 1-901 COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   (1)   BUSINESS ASSOCIATION means a business:
         (a)   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability company
member, director, or officer; or
         (b)   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more at fair market value or which represents
more than a five percent (5%) equity interest or is a stockholder of publicly
traded stock worth ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more at fair market
value or which represents more than ten percent (10%) equity interest.
   An individual who occupies a confidential professional relationship
protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This definition shall
not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if the filer reports
the name and address of the stockbroker. (Ref. 49-1408 RS Neb.)
      (2)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY means a child residing in an individual’s
household, a spouse of an individual, or an individual claimed by that
individual or that individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax
purposes. (Ref. 49-1425 RS Neb.)
      (3)   OFFICER means:
         (a)   A member of any board or commission of the Municipality which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
such board or commission; or
         (b)   Any elected municipal official.
   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance drivers with
respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in section 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04 RS Neb.,
no officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of such contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict.
An action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the county attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one (1) year
after the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefited thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result of
the contract.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not apply if the contract is an
agenda item approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested
officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the Governing Body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   An officer who:
      (1)   Has no business association with the business involved in the
contract or
      (2)   Will not receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a result
of the contract
shall not be deemed to have an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding shares of a
corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of this
section.
   (F)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to:
      (1)   All employees or
      (2)   All employees within a classification
and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for special action.
   (G)   Section 49-14,102 RS Neb. does not apply to contracts covered by this
section. (Ref. 49-14,103.01 RS Neb.)
   (H)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the Governing Body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in subdivisions (a) through (e) of this division (H)(1)
about every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of
the body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division
(C) of this section. Such information shall be kept in the ledger for five
years from the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include the:
         (a)   Names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   Date that the contract was approved by the Governing Body;
         (d)   Amount of the contract; and
         (e)   Basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten (10) days after the contract has been signed by both parties.
The ledger kept pursuant to this division (H) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Ref. 49- 14,103.02 RS Neb.)
   (I)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (H) of
this section shall be filed within ten days after such account is opened.
Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the open account.
Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to
this section. (Ref. 49-14,103.03 RS Neb.)
   (J)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (I) of this section, the
Governing Body may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an
officer of the Governing Body may have an interest. (Ref. 49- 14,103.05 RS
Neb.)
   (K)   The Governing Body may exempt from divisions (A) through (I) of this
section, contracts involving one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less in which an
officer of such Body may have an interest. (Ref. 49-14,103.06 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 271, 12/4/84) (Amended by Ord. No. 541, 4/2/02)
Article 10. General Provisions
Section
   
1-1001   General Provisions; Retention of Second Class City Government
   
1-1002   General Provisions; Notices; Publication
   
1-1003   General Provisions; References to Department of Roads
§ 1-1001 GENERAL PROVISIONS; RETENTION OF SECOND CLASS CITY GOVERNMENT.  
   The City of Springfield, Nebraska is hereby found and declared by the 1980
United States Census, to have decreased in population until it has a population
of less than eight hundred (800) inhabitants and more than one hundred (100)
inhabitants. The Mayor and City Council hereby declare it in the best interest
of the City of Springfield, Nebraska to remain a City of the second class. Upon
proclamation of such by the Secretary of State, the City shall continue to be
governed by the laws of the State of Nebraska applicable to Cities of the
Second Class. (Ref. 17-305 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 265, 11/6/84)
§ 1-1002 GENERAL PROVISIONS; NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   If the municipality is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a
legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, and if there
is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the municipality, then
the municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the county in which the municipality
is located. If there is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation in such
county, then the municipality shall publish such notice or advertisement by
posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three (3) public places in
the municipality for the same period of time the municipality is required to
publish the notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper. (Ord. No. 983, 8/7/
18)
§ 1-1003   GENERAL PROVISIONS; REFERENCES TO DEPARTMENT OF ROADS.
   For purposes of the Springfield Municipal Code, all references to the
Department of Roads shall be updated to Department of Transportation. (Ord. No.
984, 8/7/18)
Article 11. Initiative and Referendum
Section
   
1-1101    Initiative and Referendum; Definitions
   
1-1102   Initiative and Referendum; Petitions, Ballots
   
1-1103   Initiative and Referendum; Petition Form
   
1-1103.01   Initiative and Referendum; Declaratory Judgment
   
1-1104   Initiative and Referendum; Signature Sheets
   
1-1105   Initiative and Referendum; Petitions, Affidavit
   
1-1106   Initiative and Referendum; Petitions; Notification; Verification
   
1-1107   Initiative and Referendum; Frequency of Occurrence
   
1-1108   Initiative and Referendum; Direct Vote
   
1-1109   Initiative and Referendum; Elections
   
1-1110   Initiative and Referendum; Ballots
   
1-1111   Initiative and Referendum; Initiative
   
1-1112   Initiative and Referendum; Referendum Limitations
   
1-1113   Initiative and Referendum; Referendum, Passage
   
1-1114   Initiative and Referendum; Violations, Penalties
   
1-1115   Initiative and Referendum; Applicability
§ 1-1101 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; DEFINITIONS.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the Municipality by State law. This Article shall govern the use of
initiative to enact, and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the Municipality. For purposes of this Article, the
definitions set out in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
shall apply.
CIRCULATOR shall mean any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
CLERK shall mean the Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Official in charge of
elections.
GOVERNING BODY shall mean the legislative authority of the Municipality.
MEASURE shall mean an ordinance, charter provision, or resolution which is
within the legislative authority of the Governing Body to pass, and which is
not excluded from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in section 1-
1012.
MUNICIPALITY shall mean the City of Springfield, Nebraska.
PETITION shall mean a document authorized for circulation pursuant to section
1-1102, or any copy of such document.
PLACE OF RESIDENCE shall mean the street and number of the residence. If there
is no street and number for the residence, place of residence shall mean the
mailing address.
PROSPECTIVE PETITION shall mean a sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
QUALIFIED ELECTORS shall mean all persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative, or altered or repealed by
referendum.
RESIDENCE shall mean that place at which a person has established his or her
home, where he or she is habitually present, and to which, when he or she
departs, he or she intends to return.
SIGNATURE SHEET shall mean a sheet of paper which is part of a petition and
which is signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Ref. 18-2501 through 18-2511 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1102 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the petitioner
shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall date the
prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall verify that
the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a ballot title for
the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If the prospective
petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within three (3) working days
from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of the
prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three (3) working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two (2) working days from
the receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk that
the prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an admission by
the Clerk, Governing Body, or Municipality that the measure is subject to
referendum or limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by
initiative.
   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall consist
of:
   A.   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
   B.   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure, and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
   C.   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than seventy-five (75)
words, of the chief purpose of the measure.
   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal shall
contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum shall
be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in lower case
ten point type, except that the caption shall be in bold face type. All
initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan manner
without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have not been
approved or endorsed by any political party or organization. (Ref. 18-2512, 18-
2513 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1103 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITION FORM.
     (A)   The forms designed by the Secretary of State to be used for
initiative and referendum petitions shall be made available to the public by
the City Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for individuals preparing
prospective petitions. Substantial compliance with initiative and referendum
forms is required before authorization to circulate such petition shall be
granted by the City Clerk. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing
prospective petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the petition
for circulation after authorization for circulation has been granted. (Ref. 18-
2514 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Each petition presented for signature must be identical to the
petition authorized for circulation by the City Clerk. Every petition shall
contain the name and place of residence of not more than three (3) persons as
chief petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The chief petitioners or sponsors
shall be qualified electors of the municipality potentially affected by the
initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition shall contain the caption and
the statement specified to be part of the ballot title. When a special election
is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every petition. (Ref. 18-2515
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 635, 1/6/04)
§ 1-1103.01 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The City or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory judgment
regarding any questions arising under this Article, as it may be from time to
time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a measure is
subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may be enacted
by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment, the City
shall be served by personal, residence, or certified mail service upon the
chief executive officer or City Clerk. If the City seeks a declaratory
judgment, only the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be required to
be served.
   (B)   Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes of
determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in the district
court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative petition with
the City Clerk for signature verification until forty (40) days from the date
the City Council received notification from the verifying official that the
necessary signatures have been obtained. If the city does not bring an action
for declaratory judgment to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative,
until after it has received such notification, it shall be required to proceed
with the initiative or referendum election in accordance with the provisions of
this Article. If the City does file such an action prior to receiving such
notification, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such election until a
final decision has been rendered in the action.
   (C)   Any action for a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by
sections 25-21,149 through 25- 21,164 RS Neb., except that only the City and
each chief petitioner shall be required to be made parties. The City, City
Clerk, City Council, or any of the City's officers shall be entitled to rely on
any order rendered by the court in any such proceeding. Any action brought for
declaratory judgment pursuant to this section shall be given priority in
scheduling hearings and in disposition as determined by the court. When an
action is brought to determine whether the measure is subject to limited
referendum or referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a
decision shall be rendered by the court no later than five (5) days prior to
the election.
   (D)   The provisions of this section relating to declaratory judgments shall
not be construed as limiting, but construed as supplemental and additional to
other rights and remedies conferred by law. (Ref.18-2538 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
635, 1/6/04)
§ 1-1104 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; SIGNATURE SHEETS. 
   Every signature sheet shall:
   A.   Contain the caption required in subsection A of section 1-1102 of this
Article;
   B.   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
   C.    Provide space for signatories to write their names, places of
residence, and the date of signing; and
   D.   Contain a statement that anyone falsifying information on a signature
sheet shall be subject to penalties provided by law.
   No more than twenty-five (25) signatures on each signature sheet shall be
counted. In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual
registered to vote, at the time of signing, in the jurisdiction governed or to
be governed by the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include
the signatory's full name, his or her place of residence, and the date of
signing. No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her
place of residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband's
Christian or given name when she signs a petition and she shall sign her own
Christian or given name along with her surname. (Ref. 18-2516 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1105 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.  
   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit, to be
signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated, and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and place of residence
correctly.  (Ref. 18-2517 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1106 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; PETITIONS; NOTIFICATION; VERIFICATION.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition, and passage of a resolution by the
Governing Body, the Municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the County in which such Municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The Municipality
shall reimburse the County for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that one
hundred (100%) percent of the necessary signatures required by this Article
have been obtained, he or she shall notify the Governing Body of that fact, and
shall immediately forward to the Governing Body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the Governing Body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six (6) months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void. (Ref. 18-2518 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1107 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two (2) years. No attempt to repeal or
alter an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may
be made within two (2) years from the last attempt to do the same. Such
prohibition shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is
designed to accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the
previous attempt. (Ref. 18-2519 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1108 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; DIRECT VOTE.
   The Executive Officer and Governing Body of the Municipality may at any
time, by resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the
electors of any measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override
of any veto, if necessary, or enacted by the electors under this Article and
may provide in such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a
special election or the next regularly scheduled primary or general election.
Immediately upon the passage of any such resolution for submission, the Clerk
shall cause such measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the electors, at
the time specified in such resolution and in the manner provided in this
Article for submission of measures upon proposals and petitions filed by
voters. Such matter shall become law if approved by a majority of the votes
cast. (Ref. 18-2520 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1109 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; ELECTIONS.  
   The Clerk shall call elections under this Article, either at a special
election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or she shall
cause notice of every such election to be printed in one (1) or more newspapers
of general circulation in such Municipality at least once not less than thirty
(30) days prior to such election and also posted in the office of the Clerk and
in at least three (3) conspicuous places in such Municipality at least thirty
(30) days prior to such election. The notice shall be substantially as follows:
Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the ________ day of _____________,
19____, at (identify polling place or precinct) of the Municipality of
_________________________, Nebraska, an election will be held at which there
will be submitted to the electors of the Municipality for their approval or
rejection, the following measures, propositions, or issues:
_____________________________ (naming measures, propositions, or issues), which
election will be open at 8:00 a.m. and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of
the same day.
Dated this _______ day of _____________________, 19_____.
      _______________________________________
      Clerk of the City/Village of
      ___________________, Nebraska.
   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet form of
measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this section shall
designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained. (Ref. 18-2521 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-1110 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this Article shall be
prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the Governing Body, unless the Governing
Body contracts with the County for such service, and shall be in form the same
as provided by law for election of the Executive Officer and Governing Body of
such Municipality. When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the
electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be
placed upon the official ballots as provided in this Article. (Ref. 18-2522 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-1111 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; INITIATIVE.
   A.   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the Municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   B.   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to section 1-1112.
   C. Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to at
least fifteen (15%) percent of the qualified electors of the Municipality has
been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the Governing
Body to consider passage of the measure contained in the petition including an
override of any veto, if necessary. If the Governing Body fails to pass the
measure without amendment, including an override of any veto, if necessary,
within thirty (30) days from the date it received notification, the Clerk shall
cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly
scheduled primary or general election held within the Municipality. If the
Governing Body desires to submit the measure to a vote of the people at a
special election prior to the next regularly scheduled primary or general
election held within the Municipality, the Governing Body, shall, by
resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a special
election. Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum.
   D.   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least twenty (20%) percent of the qualified electors which requests that a
special election be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the
people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to section 1-1106,
it shall be the duty of the Governing Body to consider passage of the measure
contained in the petition including an override of any veto, if necessary. If
the Governing Body fails to pass the measure, without amendment, including an
override of any veto, if necessary, within thirty (30) days from the date it
received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a
vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose. The date of
such election shall not be less than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days
from the date the Governing Body received notification pursuant to section
1-1106.
   E.   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the
Municipality thirty (30) days after certification of the election results,
unless the Governing Body by resolution orders an earlier effective date or the
measure itself provides for a later effective date, which resolution shall not
be subject to referendum or limited referendum. A measure passed by such method
shall not be amended or repealed except by two-thirds (2/3) majority of the
members of the Governing Body. No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made
within one (1) year from the passage of the measure by the electors.
(Ref. 18-2523 through 18-2526 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1112 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the
Municipality. (Ref. 18-2527 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants, or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was, or is, subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to July 17, 1982;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the Nebraska Budget Act;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health, or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the Governing Body and approved
by its Executive Officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (E) of this section for which a sufficient referendum
petition was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which
received voter approval after the filing of such petition;(6)   Resolutions
directing the Municipal Clerk to cause measures to be submitted to a vote of
the people at a special election as provided in sections 18- 2524 and 18-2529
RS Neb.;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in section 18-2526 RS Neb.;
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the Municipality and
which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidence of indebtedness;
      (9)   Measures that amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal a zoning
regulation, restriction, or boundary and are subject to protest as provided in
section 19-905 RS Neb.;
      (10) Measures relating to personnel issues, including, but not limited
to, establishment, modification, or elimination of any personnel position,
policy, salary, or benefit and any hiring, promotion, demotion, or termination
of personnel; and
      (11) Measures relating to matters subject to the provisions of the
Municipal Natural Gas System Condemnation Act.
   (C)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the Municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election, except that such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one (1) year after any such policy or
project was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative, or
approved by the voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement, or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the
costs of public ways, public property, utility systems, and other capital
projects and measures giving initial approval for industrial development
projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidences of indebtedness,
and pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of
the Governing Body and the Executive Officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants, or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (D)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect
thirty (30) days after their passage by the Governing Body, including an
override of any veto, if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures
subject to limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification
pursuant to section 18-2518 RS Neb. within thirty (30) days after such
measure's passage by the Governing Body, including an override of any veto, if
necessary, or after notice is first published pursuant to subdivision (E)(3) of
this section. If the necessary number of signatures as provided in sections 18-
2529 or 18-2530 RS Neb. has been obtained within the time limitation, the
effectiveness of the measure shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
   (E)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement, or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems, or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the Municipality may exempt all subsequent measures relating to
the same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided
for in this Article by the following procedure:
      (1)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place of
such hearing being published at least once not less than five (5) days prior to
the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
Municipality;
      (2)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
      (3)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, by giving notice as follows:
         (a)   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of thirty (30) days after the first publication of such notice and that,
after such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be
subject to any further right of referendum; and
         (b)   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer's estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of thirty (30) days after the first publication of such notice and that,
after such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be
subject to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this
subdivision shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation
within the Municipality and shall be published not later than fifteen (15) days
after passage by the Governing Body, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, of a measure approving the project.
      The right of the Municipality to hold such a hearing prior to the passage
of the measure by the Governing Body and give such notice after passage of such
measure by the Governing Body to obtain exemption for any particular project in
a manner described in this division is optional, and the Municipality shall not
be required to hold such a hearing or give such notice for any particular
project.
   (F)   Nothing in divisions (C) and (E) of this section shall be construed as
subjecting to limited referendum any measure related to matters subject to the
provisions of the Municipal Natural Gas System Condemnation Act.
   (G)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (B), (C), and (E) of
this section, shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after
such measure has been passed by the Governing Body, including an override of a
veto, if necessary, or enacted by the voters by initiative. (Ref. 18-2528 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 509, 3/20/01; 602, 4/1/03)
§ 1-1113 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least fifteen (15%) percent of the qualified electors of the Municipality
has been filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to section 1-1106 of this
code, it shall be the duty of the Governing Body to reconsider the measure or
portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum. If the Governing
Body fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner
proposed by the referendum, including an override of any veto, if necessary,
within thirty (30) days from the date the Governing Body receives notification
pursuant to section 1-1106, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted
to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general
election held within the Municipality. If the Governing Body desires to submit
the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the next
regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the Municipality,
the Governing Body shall, by resolution, direct the Clerk to cause the measure
to be submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall not be subject to
referendum or limited referendum.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least twenty (20%) percent of the qualified voters of the Municipality which
requests that a special election be called to submit the referendum measure to
a vote of the people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be
the duty of the Governing Body to reconsider the measure or portion of such
measure which is the object of the referendum. If the Governing Body fails to
repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the
referendum, including an override of any veto, if necessary, the Clerk shall
cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a special election
called for such purpose within thirty (30) days from the date the Governing
Body received notification. The date of such special election shall not be less
than thirty (30) nor more than sixty (60) days from the date the Governing Body
received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds (2/3)
majority of the members of the Governing Body. No such attempt to reenact or
return the measure to its original form shall be made within one (1) year of
the repeal or amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum
measure does not receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately be
come effective or remain in effect. (Ref. 18-2529 through 18-2531 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1114 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES.
   (A)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes a
false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
sections 18-2501 through 18-2531 RS Neb. shall be guilty of a Class I
misdemeanor with a limit of three hundred ($300.00) dollars on the fine.
   (B)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made, or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to sections 18-2501
through 18-2531 RS Neb. shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit
of five hundred ($500.00) dollars on the fine.
   (C)   Whoever signs any petition under sections 18-2501 through 18-2531 RS
Neb. knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of three
hundred ($300.00) dollars on the fine.
   (D)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of
sections 18-2501 through 18-2531 RS Neb. or who willfully causes unreasonable
delay in the execution of his or her duties under such sections shall be guilty
of a Class I misdemeanor but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the
punishment.
(Ref. 18-2532 through 18-2535 RS Neb.)
§ 1-1115 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM; APPLICABILITY.  
   The provisions of the statutes of the State of Nebraska relating to election
officers, voting places, election apparatus and blanks, preparation and form of
ballots, information to voters, delivery of ballots, calling of elections,
conduct of elections, manner of voting, counting of votes, records and
certificates of election, and recounts of votes, so far as applicable, shall
apply to voting on ordinances by the electors pursuant to this Article.
   Nothing in this Article shall apply to procedures for initiatives or
referendums provided in Nebraska Revised Statutes sections 18-412 and 18-412.02
relating to Municipal light and power plants, sections 70-504, 70-650.01 and
70-650.02, relating to public power districts, and sections 80-203 to 80-205
relating to soldiers and sailors monuments. (Ref. 18-2536, 19-2537 RS Neb.)
Article 12. Penal Provision
§ 1-1201 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person, or any person's agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
CHAPTER 2: COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
   Article
      
Article 1. Standing Committees
      
Article 2. Commissions and Boards
      
Article 3. Tree Board
      
Article 4. Community Redevelopment Authority
      
Article 5. Penal Provision
Article 1. Standing Committees
Section
   
2-101   Standing Committees; General Provisions
§ 2-101 STANDING COMMITTEES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the City Council may by ordinance, or
resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at
any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one (1) year, unless reappointed. The following standing committees shall be
appointed or reappointed each year until changed by the Governing Body:
   Auditorium
   Library
   Road-Fire-Water
   Sewer-Park
Article 2. Commissions and Boards
Section
   
2-201   Library Board
   
2-202   Planning Commission.
   
2-203   Board of Adjustment
   
2-203.01   Board of Adjustment; Members; Meetings
   
2-203.02   Board of Adjustment; Appeals
   
2-203.03   Board of Adjustment; Powers; Jurisdiction
   
2-203.04   Board of Adjustment; Appeals to District Court
   
2-204   Board of Health
   
2-205   Board of Park Commissioners
§ 2-201 LIBRARY BOARD.
   The Library Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of a
majority vote of the Governing Body. he Board shall consist of seven (7)
members, at least four (4) of whom shall be residents of the Municipality. The
members of the Library Board shall serve a four (4) year term of office as
specified by Nebraska Statutes. The Board shall serve without compensation and
may be required, in the discretion of the Governing Body, to give a bond in a
sum set by resolution of the Governing Body, and conditioned upon the faithful
performance of their duties. At the time of the Board's first (1st) meeting in
July of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from their number a
Chairman and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with the
Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for inspection at any reasonable
time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing
Body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairman,
or any three (3) members of the Board. The Library Board shall have the
authority to appoint a librarian and all other employees. It shall be the duty
of the Board to have general charge of the Municipal Library and to establish
appropriate rules and regulations for the management, operation, and use of the
same. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all employees of the
library including the librarian. All actions of the Board shall be subject to
the review and supervision of the Governing Body. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the Governing Body may designate from time to time. No member of the Governing
Body shall serve as a member of the Library Board while serving a term of
office as a member of the Governing Body. No member of the Library Board shall
serve in the capacity of both the Chairman and Secretary of the Board. (Ref.
51-202 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 233, 4/5/83; 295, 8/4/87)
§ 2-202 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to sections 19-901 et seq. RS Neb., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five (5), seven (7), or nine (9) regular members, as specified by the City
Council by ordinance, who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the
different professions or occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the
Mayor by and with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the
City Council. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area over
which the City is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and
subdivision regulation. When there are five hundred (500) residents in the area
over which the City exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision
regulation, one (1) regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from
such area. If it is determined by the City Council that five hundred (500)
residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision
regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of the Commission, the
first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of
such an individual. A number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number
of regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of any business. All regular members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three (3)
years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first (1st)
Commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one (1) year, one-third
or fewer for terms of two (2) years, and the remaining members for  terms of
three (3) years. All regular members shall hold office until their successors
are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the Council, be
removed by the Mayor with the consent of a majority vote of the members elected
to the Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office or
other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the
Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council, appoint one (1) alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three (3) years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Council. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the City Council;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under section 18-2102.01 RS Neb.; or
         (d)   A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
section 18-2715 RS Neb. (Ref. 19-926 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one (1) year, and he or she shall be eligible for
reelection. The Commission shall hold at least one (1) regular meeting in each
calendar quarter, except as provided in this section. The City Council may
require the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the
Commission may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending
before the Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the
Chairperson may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three (3)
quarterly meetings may be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall
adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which
shall be a public record. (Ref. 19-927 RS Neb.)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment, and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts. (Ref. 19-928 RS Neb.)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in sections 19-930 to 19-933 RS Neb.,
the Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city,
including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission's judgment
bear relation to the planning of such city and including a comprehensive
development plan as defined by section 19-903 RS Neb.;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested city departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the comprehensive
development plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
Commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within sixty (60) days after the Commission begins consideration
of a matter or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to section
19-916 RS Neb.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the City Council, in
its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the City;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the City Council may
choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Council regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the district court. (Ref.
19-925 through 19-933, 19-929 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 192, 7/5/78; 252,
6/7/83; 368, 3/7/95; 384, 12/19/95; 985, 8/7/18; 1089, 12/7/21)
§ 2-203 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.   
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the consent of the City Council, a Board
of Adjustment, which shall consist of five (5) regular members plus one (1)
additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and serve only
when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason. Each member
shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years and shall be removable for
cause by the Mayor upon written charges and after public hearings. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One (1) member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. If the Board does not include
a member who resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city,
the first vacancy occurring on the Board of Adjustment after the effective date
of this section shall be filled by the appointment of a person who resides in
the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as more than
two hundred (200) persons reside within such area. Thereafter, at all times, at
least one (1) member of the Board of Adjustment shall reside outside the
corporate boundaries of the City but within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction. Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall serve
as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation and may be
required, in the discretion of the City Council, to give a bond in a sum set by
resolution of the City Council and conditioned upon the faithful performance of
their duties. The Board shall organize at its first meeting each year after the
City Council meeting when appointments are regularly made and shall elect from
its membership a Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Board of
Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the
Board.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this
section and sections 19-901 to 19-914 RS Neb. Meetings of the Board shall be
held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as the Board may
determine. Special meetings may be also held upon the call of any three members
of the Board. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of doing business. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. It shall be the duty of the
Secretary to keep complete and accurate minutes of the Board’s proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and to keep records of the Board’s examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the Board and shall be public record. The Board shall be responsible for
making such reports and performing such other duties as the Mayor and City
Council may designate. (Ref. 19-908 RS Neb.)
   (D)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected by any decision of
the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable
time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and with the Board a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with
him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in
his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board or by a court of record on application on notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give public notice
thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney. (Ref. 19-909 RS Neb.)
   (E)   The Board shall have only the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged there is error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any zoning regulation
or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of structures, except
that the authority to hear and decide appeals shall not apply to decisions made
by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a conditional use or
special exception;
      (2)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any zoning
regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
      (3)   When by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of
a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any zoning regulation would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardships upon
the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal relating to the
property, a variance from such strict application so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and
purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
   (F)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it finds
that:
      (1)   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce undue
hardship;
      (2)   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in the
same zoning district and the same vicinity;
      (3)   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
      (4)   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of demonstrable
and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for purposes of
convenience, profit, or caprice.
No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the condition or
situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the property is not
of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably practicable the
formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an amendment to the zoning
regulations.
   (G)   In exercising the powers granted in this section, the Board may, in
conformity with sections 19- 901 to 19-915 RS Neb., reverse or affirm, wholly
or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four (4) members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation. (Ref. 19-910 RS Neb.)
   (H)   Appeals from a decision by the Board may be taken as provided in
section 19-912 RS Neb.. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 171, 11/4/5; 385, 12/19/95; 440,
10/21/97; 648, 11/2/04)
§ 2-203.01 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; MEMBERS; MEETINGS.  
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 385, 12/19/95)
§ 2-203.02 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; APPEALS.   
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 385, 12/19/95)
§ 2-203.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; POWERS; JURISDICTION.  
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 385, 12/19/95)
§ 2-203.04 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; APPEALS TO DISTRICT COURT.   
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 385, 12/19/95)
§ 2-204 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (1)   The Governing Body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist
of four (4) members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who
shall serve as Chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two (2)
other members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one
can be found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider,
if appointed, shall be the Board's medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed
a Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary
and quarantine officer. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one (1) year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall
reorganize at the first meeting in December of each year. No member of the
Board of Health shall hold more than one (1) Board of Health position.
   (2) The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours. The Board of Health shall
be funded by the Governing Body from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing Body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson, or
any two (2) members of the Board.   (3) The Board shall enact rules and
regulations, which shall have the full force and effect of law, to safeguard
the health of the people of the Municipality. The Board shall enforce the rules
and regulations and provide fines and punishments for any violations thereof.
It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances and enforce
all laws of the State of Nebraska and ordinances of the Municipality relating
to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and safety of
the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and businesses as
the Governing Body may direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible
for making such reports and performing such other duties as the Governing Body
may, from time to time, designate. (Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
205, 11/6/79; 424, 7/1/97)
§ 2-205 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.  
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 346, 5/19/92)
Article 3. Tree Board
Section
   
2-301   Tree Board; Definitions
   
2-302   Tree Board; Creation and Establishment
   
2-303   Tree Board; Term of Office
   
2-304   Tree Board; Compensation
   
2-305   Tree Board; Duties and Responsibilities
   
2-306   Tree Board; Operation
   
2-307   Tree Board; Review by City Council
§ 2-301 TREE BOARD; DEFINITIONS.
STREET TREES. "Street trees" are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes, and
all other woody vegetation on land lying between the property lines on either
side of all streets, avenues or ways within the Municipality.
PARK TREES. "Park trees" are herein defined as trees, shrubs, bushes and all
other woody vegetation in public parks having individual names, and all areas
owned by the Municipality, or to which the public has free access as a park.
COMMUNITY FOREST. "Community forest" is herein defined as all street and park
trees as a total resource.
COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGER. "Community Forest Manager" is herein defined as the
official representative of the Tree Board and as such is responsible for
administration of the community forestry program.
(Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 2-302 TREE BOARD; CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.  
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the City of
Springfield, Nebraska, which shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and
residents of this City, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the City Council. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 2-303 TREE BOARD; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three
(3) years except that the term of two (2) of the members appointed to the first
(1st) board shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 2-304 TREE BOARD; COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Tree Board shall serve without compensation. (Ord. No. 294,
8/4/87)
§ 2-305 TREE BOARD; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study, investigate,
council and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for
the care, replacement, maintenance, and removal or disposition of trees and
shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be
presented annually to the City Council and upon their acceptance and approval
shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the City of
Springfield, Nebraska.
   The Tree Board, when requested by the City Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 2-306 TREE BOARD; OPERATION.  
   The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 2-307 TREE BOARD; REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
the Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and make a final
decision. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
Article 4. Community Redevelopment Authority
Section
   
2-401   Community Redevelopment Authority; Creation; Authority
   
2-402   Community Redevelopment Authority; Members
   
2-403   Community Redevelopment Authority; Officers
   
2-404   Community Redevelopment Authority; Quorum
   
2-405   Community Redevelopment Authority; Funds
   
2-406   Community Redevelopment Authority; Limited Authority
§ 2-401 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; CREATION; AUTHORITY.   
   There is hereby created the Community Redevelopment Authority of the city.
The authority shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and shall
keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations,
which records shall be made available for public inspection during regular
business hours. (Ord. No. 671, 2/15/05)
§ 2-402 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; MEMBERS.   
   Five persons, all of whom shall be residents of the City of Springfield,
shall constitute the authority. The five members shall be selected by the Mayor
and approved by the City Council. The terms of office of the members of the
authority initially appointed shall be for one (1) year, two (2) years, three
(3) years, four (4) years, and five (5) years, as designated by the Mayor in
making the respective appointments. As the terms of the members of the
authority expire, the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall
appoint or reappoint a member of the authority for a term of five (5) years to
succeed the member whose term expires. (Ord. No. 671, 2/15/05)
§ 2-403 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; OFFICERS.  
   The authority shall select one of its members as Chairman and one as Vice-
Chairman. The authority shall select a person to serve as Director who shall be
Ex Officio Secretary of the Community Redevelopment Authority. (Ord. No. 671,
2/15/05)
§ 2-404 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; QUORUM.
   A total of four members of the authority shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The authority shall adopt rules for the transaction of
its business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings
and determinations, which records shall be made available for public inspection
during regular business hours. (Ord. No. 671, 2/15/05)
§ 2-405 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; FUNDS.  
   All income, revenue, profits, and other funds received by the Authority
shall be deposited with the City Treasurer as Ex Officio Treasurer of such
authority without commingling such money with any other money under her control
and disbursed by her by check or draft only upon warrants, orders, or
requisitions by the Chairman of the authority or other person authorized by the
authority, which shall state distinctly the purpose for which the same are
drawn; and a permanent record shall be kept by the authority of any such
activity. (Ord. No. 671, 2/15/05)
§ 2-406 COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; LIMITED AUTHORITY.
   The Community Redevelopment Authority of the city, hereafter referred to as
the "CRA," shall have the powers and duties of a community redevelopment
authority and shall be regulated as set forth in Sections 18-2101 to 18-2154,
RS Neb. and amendments and supplements thereto, and the powers and duties
delegated to the CRA by the Springfield City Council by ordinance, and such
other duties as the City Council has or may in the future delegate to the CRA.
(Ref. 18-2101 to 18-2154 RS Neb.)   (Ord. No. 671, 2/15/05)
Article 5. Penal Provision
§ 2-501 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person, or any person's agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
CHAPTER 3: DEPARTMENTS
   Article
      
Article 1. Water Department
      
Article 2. Sewer Department
      
Article 3. Fire Department
      
Article 4. Police Department
      
Article 5. Parks
      
Article 6. Library
      
Article 7. Auditorium
      
A
rticle 8. Utilities Generally
      
Article 9. Penal Provision
Article 1. Water Department
Section
   
3-101   Municipal Water Department; Operation and Funding
   
3-102   Municipal Water Department; Definitions
   
3-103   Municipal Water Department; Consumer's Application
   
3-104   Municipal Water Department; Water Contract
   
3-105   Municipal Water Department; Installation Expense
   
3-105.01   Municipal Water Department; Water Connection Fees Not in a Water
District
   
3-105.02   Municipal Water Department; Water Connection Fees in a Water
District
   
3-105.03   Municipal Water Department; Water Connection-capital Facilities Fees
   
3-106   Municipal Water Department; Repairs and Maintenance
   
3-107   Municipal Water Department; Minimum Rates
   
3-108   Municipal Water Department; Water Bills
   
3-109   Municipal Water Department; Lien
   
3-110   Municipal Water Department; Single Premise
   
3-111   Municipal Water Department; Restricted Use
   
3-112   Municipal Water Department; Fire Hydrants
   
3-113   Municipal Water Department; Pollution
   
3-114   Municipal Water Department; Mandatory Hook-up
   
3-115   Municipal Water Department; Water Service Contracts
   
3-115.01    Municipal Water Department; Service Deposit
   
3-116   Municipal Water Department; Inspection
   
3-117   Municipal Water Department; Destruction of Property
   
3-118   Municipal Water Department; Complaints
   
3-119   Municipal Water Department; Fluoridation Prohibited
   
3-120   Municipal Water Department; Meter Installation; Requirements
   
3-120.01   Municipal Water Department; Meter Installation; Multiple Units; Non-
residential Units
   
3-120.02   Municipal Water Department; Meter Installation; Multiple Units;
Residential Units
   
3-120.03   Municipal Water Department; Meter Installation; Multiple Unit: Flex
Spaces
   
3-121   Municipal Water Department; Water Watch, Warning or Emergency
   
3-122   Municipal Water Department; Lawn Sprinkler System Water Billing Policy
§ 3-101 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Maintenance Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal
Water Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Maintenance Superintendent shall
have the direct management and control of the Municipal Water Department and
shall faithfully carry out the duties of his office. The Governing Body shall
have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and
efficient management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and
review of the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall set the rates to be
charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates
in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time. (Ref. 17-531, 17-534, 19-1305 RS Neb.)
§ 3-102 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
CONSUMER. One business unit or living unit which receives direct benefit from a
good or service.
MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the purpose
of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the Municipality.
SEPARATE PREMISE. More than one (1) consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. SEPARATE PREMISE may be a separate dwelling, apartment,
building, or structure used for a separate business and/or by a separate
consumer.
SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premise where the water is to be dispersed.
SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point at
or near the lot line of the consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box, or
curb cock is located. (Amended by Ord. No. 529, 2/5/02)
§ 3-103 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; CONSUMER'S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Maintenance Superintendent. The Superintendent may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set by the
Governing Body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Water
may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the order
of the Superintendent. The Department shall not supply to any person outside
the corporate limits water service without special permission from the
Governing Body; provided, the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and
supply pipe shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the Municipality to provide water service to non-residents. (Ref. 17-
537, 19-2701 RS Neb.)
§ 3-104 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONTRACT.
   The Municipality through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The Municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a Municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when, according to
law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water
rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the Municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the
Maintenance Superintendent or his agent, may cut off or disconnect the water
service from the building or premise or place of such violation. No further
connection for water service to said building, premise, or place shall again be
made except by order of said Superintendent or his agent.
§ 3-105 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer shall pay such tap fee as is set by resolution of the Governing
Body and on file with the Municipal Clerk. The Municipality shall then do the
tapping of the water main and provide the necessary trenching from the main to
the point of disbursement. The customer shall be responsible for reimbursing
the Municipality for the cost of providing the corporate and stop cocks and any
other expenses incurred by the Municipality on the account of the consumer for
bringing water service to the point of disbursement.
§ 3-105.01 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONNECTION FEES NOT IN A WATER
DISTRICT.
   (1)   Fee base. All applicants for connection to the water system which seek
to connect to the system where a water district, water extension district, or
combined sewer and water district have not been created and whose property
shall not have been charged by way of special assessments for said water
service, shall pay, in addition to the deposit required by the Code of the City
of Springfield, a water connection fee to the City Treasurer, which water
connection fee shall be based upon the following formula:
   The City Engineer shall prepare an estimate of the cost of an installed six
(6) inch water main. In addition to the estimated cost of the six (6) inch
main, the City Engineer shall add a factor to cover engineering fees, bonding
fees, legal fees, and other miscellaneous expenses. Based on these estimates,
the City Engineer shall then calculate a "per linear foot" estimated cost for
the water main. The per linear foot cost shall be recalculated annually and be
kept on file in the City Clerk's office.
   (2)   Application of fee base. The water connection fee shall be calculated
by multiplying the number of linear feet of frontage of the applicant's lot
parallel to the water line times the Engineer's estimate of the per linear foot
water line cost.
   (3)   Alternate Fee application. In cases where irregular lot configuration
lends front footage connection calculations to be inequitable, the City
Engineer, with approval of City Council, may use one of the following alternate
methods of applying the fee base.
      (a)   The fee base may be applied prorata to the number of properties
benefitted.
      (b)   The fee base may be applied on a square footage of benefitted
properties basis or by a combination of square footage and front footage.
   (4)   No connection fee shall prohibit the Council from negotiating and
entering into a developer subdivision agreement which may specify fees,
assessments and other subsequent charges.
   (5)   Water connection fee is non-exclusive. Payment of a water connection
fee under this section does not exclude the applicant from the responsibility
of water connection-capital facilities fees which intent is to offset costs of
water treatment facilities and supporting structures necessary to provide water
service to the property.
   (6)   No connection shall be made to the water system until such deposit and
appropriate water connection fees shall have been paid in full to the City
Treasurer.   
   (7)   The City Treasurer shall apply all fees collected to the City Water
Fund. (Ord. No. 471, 9/1/98; Amended by Ord. No. 703, 2/21/06)
§ 3-105.02 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONNECTION FEES IN A WATER
DISTRICT.
   (1)   Fee base.
      (a)   All applicants for connection to the water system which seek to
connect to the system where a water district, water extension district, or
combined sewer and water district have been created and whose property shall
not have been charged by way of special assessments for said water service,
shall pay, in addition to the deposit required by the Code of the City of
Springfield, a water connection fee to the City Treasurer, which water
connection fee shall be based upon the following formula:
      (b)   The City Engineer shall prepare an estimate of the cost of an
installed six (6) inch water main. In addition to the estimated cost of the six
(6) inch main, the City Engineer shall add a factor to cover engineering fees,
bonding fees, legal fees, and other miscellaneous expenses. Based on these
estimates, the City Engineer shall then calculate a "per linear foot" estimated
cost of the water main. The per linear foot cost shall be recalculated annually
and be kept on file in the City Clerk's office.
   (2)   Application of Fee Base. The water connection fee shall be calculated
by multiplying the number of linear feet of frontage of the applicant's lot
parallel to the water line times the Engineer's estimate of the per linear foot
water line cost.
   (3)   Alternate Fee Application. In cases where irregular lot configuration
lends front footage connection calculations to be inequitable, the City
Engineer, with approval of City Council, may use one of the following alternate
methods of applying the fee base.
      (a)   The fee base may be applied prorata to the number of properties
benefitted.
      (b)   The fee base may be applied on a square footage of benefitted
properties basis or by a combination of square footage and front footage.
   (4)   No connection fee shall prohibit the Council from negotiating and
entering into a developer subdivision agreement which may specify fees,
assessments and other subsequent charges.
    (5)   Water connection fee is non-exclusive. Payment of a water connection
fee under this section does not exclude the applicant from the responsibility
of water connection-capital facilities fees which intent is to offset costs of
water treatment facilities and supporting structures necessary to provide water
service to the property.
   (6)   No connection shall be made to the water system until such deposit and
appropriate water connection fees shall have been paid in full to the City
Treasurer.
   (7)   The City Treasurer shall apply all fees collected to the city water
fund. (Ord. 704, 2/21/06)
§ 3-105.03 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONNECTION-CAPITAL FACILITIES
FEES.  
   (1)   Amount of fee. The water connection-capital facilities fee shall be
established and listed in the Springfield Fees Ordinance adopted by City
Council and kept current in the City Clerk's Office.
   (2)   When applied. The water connection-capital facilities fee shall apply
to all final plats which come before the Springfield City Council for approval,
and which have not been previously platted; provided, however, that the City
and a developer or subdivider of a residential subdivision may agree in a
developer or subdivision agreement that residential water connection-capital
facilities fees may be paid when building permits are issued for lots within
the subdivision. The City Council may waive city water connection-capital
facilities fees to a development that obtains water service from the
Metropolitan Utilities District (MUD), such connection shall be detailed in the
developer or subdivision agreement.
   (3)   Date due. The water connection-capital facilities fee shall be paid to
the City Clerk prior to the Mayor signing the approved final plat or at the
time agreed to in an approved developer or subdivision agreement.
   (4)   Distribution of funds. The City Treasurer shall apply the water
connection-capital facilities fee to the Springfield Water Capital Facilities
Fund.
   (5)   Water connection-capital facilities fee is non-exclusive. Payment of a
water connection-capital facilities fee under this section does not exclude the
applicant from the responsibility of water connection fees which intent is to
offset costs of water main installation necessary to provide service to the
property.
   (6)   No connection shall be made to the water system until such deposit and
appropriate water connection fees shall have been paid in full to the City
Treasurer.
   (7)   The water connection-capital facilities fee shall not create an
obligation on behalf of the city to provide any services to the platted
properties. (Ord. 704, 2/21/06) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 904, 10/20/15; 1009, 7/2/
19)
§ 3-106 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.  
   The Municipality shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply
pipe between the commercial main and the stop box. The customer at his own
expense shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box to
the place of dispersement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the
Superintendent shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the
expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. It shall be
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter, or by any means or
device to divert water from the service pipe so that the same shall not pass
through said meter, or while passing through said meter, to cause the same to
register inaccurately.
§ 3-107 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
resolution unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case he shall
not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is turned on again.
(Ref. 17-542 RS Neb.)
§ 3-108 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER BILLS.
   Water bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the Municipal
Clerk or other depository as approved by the Governing Body. Water bills shall
be due on the first (1st) day of the month following the month in which service
has been provided and shall be considered delinquent after the fifth (5th)
business day of the same month. Upon being deemed to be delinquent, as herein
defined, the Municipal Clerk shall assess a delinquent fee as set by resolution
of the Governing Body and on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. If a
customer shall for any reason remain delinquent after the fifteenth (15th) of
the same month, the Municipal Clerk shall give a written notice to the customer
of such delinquency and shall demand payment immediately. In the event that the
bill is not paid within seven (7) days after the sending of said notice, it
shall be discretionary with the Superintendent to cut off service at any time;
provided, if the delinquent customer is a known welfare recipient, it shall be
the duty of the Municipal Clerk to notify the customer and the County Welfare
Department by certified mail of the proposed termination. The Maintenance
Superintendent shall assess an additional fee set by resolution of the
Governing Body and on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk in the event
that water is shut off for the non-payment of any water bill, to compensate the
Municipality for the additional hook-up necessary to again provide water
service to the delinquent customer. In the event that the delinquent bill is
not paid, the customer may also be subject to a Municipal Water Lien as
provided in this code. (Ref. 17-542, 18-416 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 504,
12/20/00; 622, 9/2/03; 631, 1/6/04; 707, 2/21/06) 
§ 3-109 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are delinquent after the fifteenth (15th) of
the month following the month in which service has been provided.
   If payment is not remitted within seven (7) days after the mailing of such
notice, the Municipal Clerk shall certify the delinquent amounts to the County
Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law. The
delinquent amount shall include all recording and releasing fees at the Sarpy
County Register of Deeds office (Amended by Ord. Nos. 302, 10/4/88; 623, 9/2/
03; 986, 8/7/18)
§ 3-110 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SINGLE PREMISE.
   No consumer shall supply water to other consumers, or allow them to take
water from his premise, nor after water is supplied into a premise shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension, or attachment without
the written permission of the Superintendent. It shall further be unlawful for
any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any contrivance or
device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the water will not
pass through the meter or while passing through said meter to cause the meter
to register inaccurately. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 530, 2/5/
02)
§ 3-111 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; RESTRICTED USE.
   The Governing Body or the Maintenance Superintendent may order a reduction
in the use of water or shut off the water on any premise in the event of a
water shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The Municipality
shall not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water
of any consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or
when there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the
Municipality has no control. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-112 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
§ 3-113 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Ref. 17-536 RS Neb.)
§ 3-114 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   All persons whose property abuts a water main that is now or may hereafter
be laid shall be required, upon notice by the Governing Body, to hook-up with
the Municipal Water System. (Ref. 17-539 RS Neb.)
§ 3-115 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the Maintenance Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the said premise. If the consumer should fail to give
such notice, he shall be charged for all water used on the said premise until
the Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref. 17-537 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-115.01 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   The Governing Body, in its discretion, may require a service deposit from
any or all customers of the Municipal Sewer and Water Department in a sum set
by the Governing Body and filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time. From the said fund shall be deducted all
delinquent sewer and/or water charges. The deposit shall be collected by the
Municipal Clerk who shall immediately turn the same over to the Municipal
Treasurer who shall keep the deposit in a trust fund for customers of the
Municipal Sewer and Water Department. The said fund shall be put out at
interest separate and apart from other funds. Interest arising therefrom shall
be expended solely for the repair of equipment and property belonging to the
Municipal Sewer and Water Department. (Ord. No. 536, 2/19/02)
§ 3-116 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTION.
   The Maintenance Superintendent, or his duly authorized agents, shall have
free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premise and building
to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-117 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Maintenance Superintendent.
§ 3-118 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself aggrieved by reason of any controversy with the
Maintenance Superintendent may appear before the Governing Body and present his
grievance. Any consumer who considers himself aggrieved by being required to
pay the charge demanded for the use of water, or for the resumption of water
service after the same shall have been shut off, shall pay such charge under
protest, in which event the Municipal Clerk shall write on the receipt given
such customer the words, "Paid Under Protest." Such consumer may then present
his verified claim in the manner provided for presenting claims to the
Governing Body for a refund of the amount so paid under protest. Such claims
shall then be considered by the Governing Body in the same manner as other
claims against the Municipality.
§ 3-119 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FLUORIDATION PROHIBITED.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 345, 5/19/92)
§ 3-120 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; METER INSTALLATION; REQUIREMENTS.  
   (1)   Before any consumer shall make use of the Municipal water service, the
Municipality shall furnish a meter, the cost of which shall be billed to the
consumer. Meters shall be conveniently located at a point approved by the
Municipal Superintendent, so as to control the entire supply. After such meters
shall be installed, it must be approved by the Superintendent or his agent,
after which the water may only be turned on by the Superintendent.
   (2)   When water is furnished by meter, the quantity recorded by the meter
shall be conclusive on both municipality and consumer, except when the meter
has been found to be registering inaccurately or has ceased to register. In the
later case, the quantity may be determined by the average registration of the
meter when in order plus the charges provided in subsection (4) hereof.
   (3)   In case of a disputed account involving the accuracy of a meter, such
meter shall be tested on request of either the consumer or the Municipality in
conformity with the provisions of rules and regulations adopted by the
Municipality. If the meter so tested is found to have an error in registration
of five percent (5%) or more, the bills will be increased or decreased
accordingly.
   (4)   In the event a consumer is found to have been using the Municipal
water supply without a working meter, such consumer shall pay, in addition to
an estimated water use charge, an additional charge of fifty dollars ($50.00)
per month for each month of unmetered water use.
   (5)   The Municipal Superintendent shall adopt reasonable rules and
regulations for the installation and maintenance of water meters. (Ord. No.
231, 12/7/82)
§ 3-120.01 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; METER INSTALLATION; MULTIPLE UNITS; NON-
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
   Non-residential units, other than those units governed by section 3-120.03,
allowing for four (4) or less consumers or separate premises shall have a
separate meter for each consumer or premises. Non-residential units allowing
for more than four (4) consumers or separate premises may have one (1) meter
per consumer group or premise. In such circumstances where individual consumers
or separate premises do not have an individual meter, minimum charges shall be
applied to each available consumer or premise and overages shall be applied to
the non-residential unit as an accumulation of the entire non- residential
unit's usage. (Ord. No. 531, 2/5/02) (Amended by Ord. No. 999, 2/19/19)
§ 3-120.02 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; METER INSTALLATION; MULTIPLE UNITS;
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
   Residential units allowing for four (4) or less consumers or separate
premises shall have a separate meter for each consumer or premises. Residential
units allowing for more than four (4) consumers or separate premises may have
one (1) meter per consumer group or premise. In such circumstances where
individual consumers or separate premises do not have an individual meter,
mini-mum charges shall be applied to each available consumer or premise and
overages shall be applied to the residential unit as an accumulation of the
entire residential unit's usage. (Ord. No. 531, 2/5/02)
§ 3-120.03 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; METER INSTALLATION; MULTIPLE UNIT: FLEX
SPACES.  
   Any building in a zoning district zoned Industrial, Light Industrial,
Business Highway, Business Park or Mixed Use, designed to, or that is used to,
provide space for multiple (more than one (1)) businesses or business entities
to carry on separate businesses or trades under a common roof; including
buildings designated as "Flex Buildings", or "Flex Spaces", or any similar
building shall have at least one meter that does not take water from another
metered line or building. Additional meters may be purchased and installed for
tenants in the same building provided they are all located near the service
entrance, not sub-meters, and each meter make a direct connection to the main
with a separate shutoff at the main. In such circumstances where the building
does not have separate meters, minimum charges will be applied to the building
based on the number of water rough ins in the building plans approved by the
City. Any changes to the number of water rough ins must be approved by the City
and the new number of water rough ins will be the number of minimums charged.
Overage charges shall be applied to the building as an accumulation of the
entire building's usage. The property owner shall be responsible for payment of
the water utility bill. (Ord. No. 1000, 2/19/19)
§ 3-121 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER WATCH, WARNING OR EMERGENCY.
    (1)   Purpose.
The purpose of this section is to provide for the declaration of a water supply
watch, warning or emergency and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory
water conservation measures throughout the City in the event such a watch,
warning or emergency is declared.
   (2)   Definitions:
      (a)   WATER. Water available to the City of Springfield for treatment by
virtue of its water rights or any treated water introduced by the City into its
water distribution system, including water offered for sale at any coin-
operated site.
      (b)   CUSTOMER. The customer of record using water for any purpose from
the City's water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is
made or, in the case of coin sales, a cash charge is made at the site of
delivery.
      (c)   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         1.   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch, or other surface
drain; or
         2.   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
      (d)   The following classes of water are established:
         CLASS 1:   Water used for outdoor watering, either public or private,
for gardens, lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields,
swimming pools or other recreational areas; or the washing of motor vehicles,
boats, trailers, or the exterior of any building or structure.
         CLASS 2:   Water used for any commercial or industrial, including
agricultural, purposes: except water actually necessary to maintain the health
and personal hygiene of bona fide employees while such employees are engaged in
the performance of their duties at their place of employment.
         CLASS 3:   Domestic usage, other than that which would be included in
either Classes 1 or 2.
         CLASS 4:   Water necessary only to sustain human life and the lives of
domestic pets and maintain standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   (3)   Declaration of Water Watch. Whenever the Governing Body of the City
finds that conditions indicate that the probability of a drought or some other
condition causing a major water supply shortage is rising, it shall be
empowered to declare, by resolution, that a water watch exists and that it
shall take steps to inform the public and ask for voluntary reductions in water
use. Such a watch shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by
resolution of the Governing Body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the
existence and end of a water watch shall be effective upon their publication in
the official City newspaper.
   (4)   Declaration of Water Warning. Whenever the Governing Body of the City
finds that drought conditions or some other condition causing a major water
supply shortage are present and supplies are starting to decline, it shall be
empowered to declare by resolution that a water warning exists and that it will
recommend restrictions on nonessential uses during the period of warning. Such
a warning shall be deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the
Governing Body to have ended. The resolutions declaring the beginning and
ending of the water warning shall be effective upon their publication in the
official City newspaper.
   (5)   Declaration of Water Emergency. Whenever the Governing Body of the
City finds that an emergency exists by reason of a shortage of water supply
needed for essential uses, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that
a water supply emergency exists and that it will impose mandatory restrictions
on water use during the period of the emergency. Such an emergency shall be
deemed to continue until it is declared by resolution of the Governing Body to
have ended. The resolutions declaring the existence and end of a water supply
emergency shall be effective upon their publication in the official City
newspaper.
   (6)   Voluntary Conservation Measures. Upon the declaration of a water watch
or water warning as provided in subsections (3) and (4) above, the Mayor (or
the City Manager) is authorized to call on all water consumers to employ
voluntary water conservation measures to limit or eliminate nonessential water
uses including, but not limited to, limitations on the following uses:
      (a)   Sprinkling of water on lawns, shrubs or trees (including golf
courses).
      (b)   Washing of automobiles.
      (c)   Use of water in swimming pools, fountains and evaporative air
conditioning systems.
      (d)   Waste of water.
   (7)   Mandatory Conservation Measures. Upon the declaration of a water
supply emergency as provided in subsection (5) above, the Mayor (or the City
Manager) is also authorized to implement certain mandatory water conservation
measures, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (a)   Suspension of new connections to the City's water distribution
system, except connections of fire hydrants and those made pursuant to
agreements entered into by the City prior to the effective date of the
declaration of the emergency;
      (b)   Restrictions on the uses of water in one or more classes of water
use, wholly or in part;
      (c)   Restrictions on the sales of water at coin-operated facilities or
sites;
      (d)   The imposition of water rationing based on any reasonable formula
including, but not limited to, the percentage of normal use and per capita or
per consumer restrictions;
      (e)   Complete or partial bans on the waste of water; and
      (f)   Any combination of the foregoing measures.
   (8)   Emergency Water Rates. Upon the declaration of a water supply
emergency as provided in subsection (5) above, the Governing Body of the City
shall have the power to adopt emergency water rates by ordinance designed to
conserve water supplies. Such emergency rates may provide for, but are not
limited to:
      (a)   Higher charges for increasing usage per unit of use (increasing
block rates);
      (b)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate); or
      (c)   Extra charges in excess of a specified level of water use (excess
demand surcharge).
   (9)   Regulations. During the effective period of any water supply emergency
as provided for in subsection (5) above, the Mayor (or City Manager or Water
Superintendent) is empowered to promulgate such regulations as may be necessary
to carry out the provisions of this section, any water supply emergency
resolution, or emergency water rate ordinance. Such regulations shall be
subject to the approval of the Governing Body at its next regular or special
meeting.
   (10)   Violations, Disconnections and Penalties.
      (a)   If the Mayor, City Manager, Water Superintendent, or other City
official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this
section or a water supply emergency resolution learn of any violation of any
water use restrictions imposed pursuant to subsections (7) or (9) of this
section, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed to the property
where the violation occurred and the customer of record any other person known
to the City who is responsible for the violation or its correction shall be
provided with either actual or mailed notice. Said notice shall describe the
violation and order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within
such specified time as the City determines is reasonable under the
circumstances. If the order is not complied with, the City may terminate water
service to the customer subject to the following procedures:
         1.   The City shall give the customer notice by mail or actual notice
that water service will be discontinued within a specified time due to the
violation and that the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the City Governing Body or
a City official designated as a hearing officer by the Governing Body;
         2.   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
         3.   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
      (b)   A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid for the reconnection
of any water service terminated pursuant to subsection 10(a) above. In the
event of subsequent violations, the reconnection fee shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for the second reconnection and three hundred dollars
($300.00) for any additional reconnections.
      (c)   Violations of this section shall be a municipal offense and may be
prosecuted in Municipal Court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
Municipal court of violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a municipal offense. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The penalty for an initial violation shall be a mandatory fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). In addition, such customer may be required by the Court to
serve a definite term of confinement in the City or County jail which shall be
fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed thirty (30) days. The penalty for
a second or subsequent conviction shall be a mandatory fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). In addition, such customer shall serve a definite term of
confinement in the City or County jail which shall be fixed by the Court and
which shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
   (11) Emergency Termination. Nothing in this section shall limit the ability
of any properly authorized City official from terminating the supply of water
to any or all customers upon the determination of such City official that
emergency termination of water service is required to protect the health and
safety of the public. (Ord. No. 501, 8/1/00)
§ 3-122 MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEM WATER BILLING POLICY.
   (A)   Properties with a separate water meter for the lawn sprinkler system
will be billed monthly from April 1 through October 31 (May through November
water bills). During the months of November through March (December through
April water bills), the billing account associated with the lawn sprinkler
system will be made inactive and no monthly bill will be charged. A reconnect
fee, as adopted in the City's Master Fee Schedule, will be applied to the
account annually and appear on the May water bill. Sewer fees will not be
applied to lawn sprinkler system accounts.
   (B)   If a property owner with a separate water meter for the lawn sprinkler
system desires to decommission said system in order to eliminate the monthly
billing charges, the property owner may have a licensed contractor/plumber
remove the lawn sprinkler system water supply line and meter. The City Water
Operator shall supervise and inspect the work to confirm the water supply line
has been completely removed. The water meter must be returned to the City. Once
the line has been removed and the meter returned, the water billing account
associated with the lawn sprinkler system on the property will be made
inactive. Future reconnection of the lawn sprinkler system will require an
appropriate building permit and the property owner shalt pay all reconnect fees
or deposits required to make such connection.
(Ord. No. 1022, 11/5/19)
Article 2. Sewer Department
Section
   
3-201   Municipal Sewer Department; Operation and Funding
   
3-202   Municipal Sewer Department; Definitions
   
3-203   Municipal Sewer Department; Application for Permit
   
3-204   Municipal Sewer Department; Sewer Contract
   
3-205   Municipal Sewer Department; Mandatory Hook-up
   
3-206   Municipal Sewer Department; Direct Connections
   
3-207   Municipal Sewer Department; Service Contracts
   
3-208   Municipal Sewer Department; Installation Procedure
   
3-209   Municipal Sewer Department; Installation Expense
   
3-209.01   Municipal Sewer Department; Sewer Connection Fees Not in a Sewer
District
   
3-209.02   Municipal Sewer Department; Sewer Connection Fees in a Sewer
District
   
3-209.03   Municipal Sewer Department; Sewer Connection-capital Facilities Fees
   
3-210   Municipal Sewer Department; Repairs and Maintenance
   
3-211   Municipal Sewer Department; Classification
   
3-212   Municipal Sewer Department; Rate Setting
   
3-213   Municipal Sewer Department; Service Deposit
   
3-214   Municipal Sewer Department; Fees and Collections
   
3-214.01   Municipal Sewer Department; Fees; Multiple Units
   
3-215   Municipal Sewer Department; Unlawful Use
   
3-216   Municipal Sewer Department; Special Equipment
   
3-217   Municipal Sewer Department; Manholes
   
3-218   Municipal Sewer Department; Inspections
   
3-219   Municipal Sewer Department; Lien
   
3-220   Municipal Sewer Department; Complaints
§ 3-201 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Sewer System through the
Maintenance Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the management and maintenance of the Municipal Sewer System may
each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law on
the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Maintenance Superintendent
shall have the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall
faithfully carry out the duties of his office. He shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the Governing Body. (Ref.
17-149, 17-925.01 RS Neb.)
§ 3-202 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The terms "Building Sewer" and "House Sewer" as used
in this Code, shall mean and include that part of a house or building drainage
system extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the
main sewer.
BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The terms "Building Drain" and "House Drain" as used
in this Code, shall mean and include that part of the lowest horizontal piping
of a house or building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil,
waste, or other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house.
SOIL PIPE. The term "Soil Pipe" as used in this Code, shall mean and include
any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or without the
discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
WASTE PIPE. The term "Waste Pipe" as used in this Code, shall mean and include
any pipe which receives the discharge of any fixture, except water closets, and
conveys the same to the house drain, soil pipe, or waste stack.
LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. The term "Local Ventilating Pipe" as used in this Code,
shall mean and include any pipe through which foul air is removed from a room
or fixture.
VENT PIPE. The term "Vent Pipe" as used in this Code, shall mean and include
any pipe provided to ventilate a house or building drainage system and to
prevent trap siphonage and back pressure.
TRAP. The term "Trap" as used in this Code, shall mean and include a fitting or
device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or gas through a pipe
without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste through it.
TRAP SEAL. The term "Trap Seal" as used in this Code, shall mean and include
the vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the trap.
PLUMBING FIXTURES. The term "Plumbing Fixtures" as used in this Code, shall
mean and include receptacles intended to receive and discharge water liquid or
water-carried wastes into the sewer system with which they are connected.
SEWER SYSTEM. The term "Sewer System" as used in this Code, shall mean and
include all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing of
sewage.
SEWAGE. The term "Sewage" as used in this Code, shall mean and include a
combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments together with such ground, surface,
and storm waters as may be present.
SANITARY SEWER. The term "Sanitary Sewer" as used in this Code, shall mean and
include a sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and ground
waters are not intentionally admitted.
STORM SEWER. The term "Storm Sewer" as used in this Code, shall mean and
include a sewer which carries storm and surface drainage, but excludes sewage
and polluted industrial wastes.
GARBAGE. The term "Garbage" as used in this Code, shall mean and include solid
wastes from the preparation of cooking and dispensing of food and produce.
PROPERLY SHREDDED. The term "Properly Shredded" as used in this Code, shall
mean and include shredding to such a degree that all particles will be carried
freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers with no
particle larger than one-half (1/2") inch in diameter.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The term "Suspended Solids" as used in this Code, shall mean
and include solids that either float on the surface of, or are in immersion in
water, sewage, or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
§ 3-203 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the Sewer System shall make an
application therefor to the Maintenance Superintendent. The Superintendent may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set
by the Governing Body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or building except upon the
order of the Superintendent. The Department shall not supply sewer service to
any person outside the corporate limits without special permission from the
Governing Body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation
charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the Municipality to provide sewer service to non-residents. (Ref. 17-
149, 19-2701 RS Neb.)
§ 3-204 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONTRACT.
   The Municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
Municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when,
according to law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the Municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the Maintenance Superintendent, or
his agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or
premise of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premise shall again be made save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his agent. (Ref. 17-901, 17-902 RS Neb.)
§ 3-205 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice by the Superintendent the property owner, occupant, or
lessee of any premise within three hundred (300') feet of any sewer main shall
without delay cause the said building to be connected with the Sewer System and
equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter erected
shall be connected with the Sewer System at the time of its construction. In
the event that any property owner, occupant, or lessee shall neglect, fail, or
refuse, within a period of ten (10) days after notice has been given to him to
do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in or of general
circulation in the Municipality, to make such connection, the Governing Body
shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the cost thereof
against the property, and to collect the assessment thus made in the manner
provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments.  (Ref. 17-149,
17-149.01 RS Neb.)
§ 3-206 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two (2) or more houses be allowed to make
such connections through one (1) pipe. (Ref. 18-503 RS Neb.)
§ 3-207 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the Maintenance Superintendent who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from the said premise. If the customer should fail to
give notice, he shall be charged for that period of time until the official in
charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref. 18-503 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-208 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, the Maintenance Superintendent shall
have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall
be charged to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property. All installations
or repairs of pipes require two (2) inspections by the Superintendent. The
first (1st) inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are complete
and before the pipes are covered. The second (2nd) inspection shall be made
after the dirt work is completed and the service restored. It is the customers
responsibility to notify the Superintendent at the time the work is ready for
each inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and
strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such
installation prescribed by the Superintendent; provided, that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
Governing Body.  (Ref. 18-503 RS Neb.)
§ 3-209 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his application for sewer service, shall pay
to the Maintenance Superintendent a tap fee which shall compensate the
Municipality for the expense of processing his application and tapping the
sewer main. The Superintendent, in his discretion, may direct the customer to
hire a licensed plumber to tap the main. The customer shall then be required to
pay the expense of procuring the materials required as well as the services of
a licensed plumber and shall pay all other costs of installation. (Ref. 18-503
RS Neb.)
§ 3-209.01 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONNECTION FEES NOT IN A SEWER
DISTRICT.
   (1)   Sewer Connection Fees. All applicants for connection to the sewer
system which seek to connect to the system where a Sewer District, Sewer
Extension District, or combined Sewer and Water District have not been created
and whose property shall not have been charged by way of special assessments
for said sewer service, shall pay, in addition to the deposit required by the
Code of the City of Springfield, a sewer connection fee to the City Clerk-
Treasurer, which sewer connection fee shall be based upon the following
formula:
   After any sewer line is constructed by the City, and all or part of the
sewer line is outside of a Sewer District, Sewer Extension District, or
combined Sewer and Water District, the City Engineer shall prepare an estimate
of the cost of an installed eight (8) inch sewer main. In addition to the
estimated cost of the eight (8) inch main, the City Engineer shall add a factor
to cover engineering fees, bonding fees, legal fees, and other miscellaneous
expenses. Based on these estimates, the City Engineer shall then calculate a
"per foot" estimated cost for the sewer main. The per foot cost shall then be
kept on file in the City Clerk's office. The sewer connection fee shall be
calculated by multiplying the number of linear feet of frontage of the
applicant's lot parallel to the sewer line times the Engineer's estimate of the
per foot sewer line cost.
   (2)   Provided that no connection shall be made to the sewer system until
such deposit and appropriate sewer connection fee shall have been paid in full;
and provided further that such sewer connection shall, when collected, be
handled by the City Clerk-Treasurer as follows:
      (a)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall apply all funds to the City Sewer
Fund. (Ord. No. 470, 9/1/98)
§ 3-209.02 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONNECTION FEES IN A SEWER
DISTRICT.
   (1)   Fee base.
      (a)   All applicants for connection to the sewer system which seek to
connect to the system where a Sewer District, Sewer Extension District, or
combined Sewer and Water District have been created and whose property shall
not have been charged by way of special assessments for said sewer service,
shall pay, in addition to the deposit required by the code, a sewer connection
fee to the City Treasurer, which sewer connection fee shall be based upon the
following formula:
      (b)   The City Engineer shall prepare an estimate of the cost of an
installed eight (8) inch sewer main. In addition to the estimated cost of the
eight (8) inch main, the City Engineer shall add a factor to cover engineering
fees, bonding fees, legal fees, and other miscellaneous expenses. Based on
these estimates, the City Engineer shall then calculate a "per linear foot"
estimated cost of the sewer main. The per linear foot cost shall be
recalculated annually and be kept on file in the City Clerk's office.
   (2)   Application of fee base. The sewer connection fee shall be calculated
by multiplying the number of linear feet of frontage of the applicant's lot
parallel to the sewer line times the Engineer's estimate of the per linear foot
sewer line cost.
   (3)   Alternate fee application. In cases where irregular lot configuration
lends front footage connection calculations to be inequitable, the City
Engineer, with approval of City Council, may use one of the following alternate
methods of applying the fee base.
      (a)   The fee base may be applied prorata to the number of properties
benefitted.
      (b)   The fee base may be applied on a square footage of benefitted
properties basis or by a combination of square footage and front footage.
   (4)   No connection fee shall prohibit the Council from negotiating and
entering into a developer subdivision agreement which may specify fees,
assessments and other subsequent charges.
    (5)   Sewer connection fee is non-exclusive. Payment of a sewer connection
fee under this section does not exclude the applicant from the responsibility
of sewer connection-capital facilities fees which intent is to offset costs of
treatment plants and supporting structures necessary to provide sewer service
to the property.
   (6)   No connection shall be made to the sewer system until such deposit and
appropriate sewer connection fees shall have been paid in full to the City
Treasurer.
   (7)   The City Treasurer shall apply all fees collected to the City Sewer
Fund. (Ref. 18-503 RS Neb) (Ord. No. 701, 2/21/06)
§ 3-209.03 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONNECTION-CAPITAL FACILITIES
FEES.
   (1)   Amount of fee. The sewer connection-capital facilities fee shall be
established and listed in the Springfield Fees Ordinance adopted by City
Council and kept current in the City Clerk's Office.
   (2)   When applied. The sewer connection-capital facilities fee shall apply
to all final plats which come before the Springfield City Council for approval,
and which have not been previously platted; provided, however, that the City
and a developer or subdivider of a residential subdivision may agree in a
developer or subdivision agreement that residential sewer connection-capital
facilities fees may be paid when building permits are issued for lots within
thesubdivision. The City Council shall collect sewer connection-capital
facilities fees from a development that obtains sewer service from the South
Sarpy County and Cities Wastewater Agency and remit such fees to the Agency,
such connection shall be detailed in the developer or subdivision agreement.
   (3)   Date due. The sewer connection-capital facilities fee shall be paid to
the City Clerk prior to the Mayor signing the approved final plat or at the
time agreed to in an approved developer or subdivision agreement.
   (4)   Distribution of funds. The City Treasurer shall apply the sewer
connection-capital facilities fee to the Springfield Sewer Capital Facilities
Fund.
   (5)   Sewer connection-capital facilities fee is non-exclusive. Payment of a
sewer connection-capital facilities fee under this section does not exclude the
applicant from the responsibility of sewer connection fees which intent is to
offset costs of sewer main installation necessary to provide service to the
property.
   (6)   No connection shall be made to the sewer system until such deposit and
appropriate sewer connection fees shall have been paid in full to the City
Treasurer.
   (7)   The sewer connection-capital facilities fee shall not create an
obligation on behalf of the city to provide any services to the platted
properties. (Ref. 18-503 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 702, 2/21/06) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
905, 10/20/15; 1010, 7/2/19)
§ 3-210 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which
is within the Municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains to
repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner's property and is
broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner's duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner's property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within thirty (30) days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the
Maintenance Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by such connection. (Amended by Ord. No. 273, 12/4/84)
§ 3-211 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; CLASSIFICATION.
   The Governing Body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers
of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers. (Ref. 17-925.02 RS Neb.)
§ 3-212 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; RATE SETTING.
   Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged a flat rate for
the use of sewer service. Rates shall be set by ordinance and shall be on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
§ 3-213 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   The Governing Body, in its discretion, may require a service deposit from
any or all customers of the Municipal Sewer and Water Department in a sum set
by the Governing Body and filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk for public
inspection at any reasonable time. From the said fund shall be deducted all
delinquent sewer and/or water charges. The deposit shall be collected by the
Municipal Clerk who shall immediately turn the same over to the Municipal
Treasurer who shall keep the deposit in a trust fund for customers of the
Municipal Sewer and Water Department. The said fund shall be put out at
interest separate and apart from other funds. Interest arising therefrom shall
be expended solely for the repair of equipment and property belonging to the
Municipal Sewer and Water Department. (Ref. 17-925.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord.
No. 535, 2/19/02)
§ 3-214 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Governing Body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid
by the customers of the Sewer Department. All such fees shall be on file for
public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Sewer fees shall be due
and payable monthly at the office of the Municipal Clerk, or other depository
as approved by the Governing Body. Sewer fees shall be due on the first (1st)
day of the month following the month in which service has been provided and
shall be considered delinquent after the fifth (5th) business day of the same
month. Upon being deemed delinquent, as herein defined, the Municipal Clerk
shall assess a delinquent fee as set by resolution of the Governing Body and on
file at the office of the Municipal Clerk. If a customer shall for any reason
remain delinquent after the fifteenth (15th) of the same month, the Municipal
Clerk shall give a written notice to the customer of such delinquency and shall
demand payment immediately. In the event that the delinquent bill is not paid,
the customer will be subject to a Municipal Sewer Lien as provided by this
Code. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 505, 12/20/00; 624, 9/2/03; 632, 1/6/04; 708, 2/21/
06)
§ 3-214.01  MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; FEES; MULTIPLE UNITS.
   In such circumstances where individual consumers or separate premises do not
have an individual water meter, minimum sewer charges shall be applied to each
available consumer or premise and sewer overages shall be applied to the
residential or non-residential unit as an accumulation of the entire
residential or non-residential unit's usage. (Ord. No. 560, 4/16/02)
§ 3-215 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage, or
unpolluted industrial process waters into the sanitary sewer.
§ 3-216 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, an unusually large amount of grease or
oil, or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand the chief sewer
official may require the said customer to install interceptors or other
preliminary treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of
the waste to within such maximum limits as he shall prescribe subject to the
review of the Governing Body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be
purchased and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation
at the customer's expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a
special agreement or arrangement between the Governing Body and an industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or
other charges.
§ 3-217 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the Sewer System any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the Sewer System.
§ 3-218 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTIONS.
   The chief sewer official or his authorized agents, shall have free access at
any reasonable time to all parts of each premise and building which is
connected with the Sewer System to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or
violations of this Article therein.
§ 3-219 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which
the same was furnished. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or cause to
be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are delinquent after the fifteenth (15th) of the month
following the month in which service has been provided. If payment is not
remitted within seven (7) days after the mailing of such notice, the Municipal
Clerk shall certify the delinquent amounts to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in the manner provided by law. (Ref. 17-925.01 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 625, 9/2/03)
§ 3-220 MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself aggrieved by reason of any controversy with the
(Board of Public Works/Utilities Superintendent/Municipal Clerk) may appear
before the Governing Body and present his grievance. Any consumer who considers
himself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of
the sewer, or for the resumption of sewer service after the same shall have
been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the
(Utilities Superintendent/Municipal Clerk) shall write on the receipt given
such customer the words, "Paid Under Protest." Such consumer may then present
his verified claim in the manner provided for presenting claims to the
Governing Body for a refund of the amount so paid under protest. Such claims
shall then be considered by the Governing Body in the same manner as other
claims against the Municipality. (Amended by Ord. No. 212, 4/1/80)  
Article 3. Fire Department
Section
   
3-301   Municipal Fire Department; Operation and Funding
   
3-302   Municipal Fire Department; Fire Chief
   
3-303   Municipal Fire Department; Membership
   
3-304   Municipal Fire Department; Records
   
3-305   Municipal Fire Department; Fires
   
3-306   Municipal Fire Department; Fighting Distant Fires
   
3-307   Municipal Fire Department; Preservation of Property
   
3-308   Municipal Fire Department; Impersonating Firemen
   
3-309   Municipal Fire Department; Mandatory Assistance
   
3-310   Municipal Fire Department; Power of Arrest
   
3-311   Municipal Fire Department; Fire Investigation
§ 3-301 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.  
   The Municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the
Municipal Fire Chief and Firemen. The Governing Body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire
Department may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed
by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said
tax shall be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund shall be at all times
in the possession of the Municipal Treasurer. The Fire Chief shall manage the
Fire Department and it shall be his duty to inform the Governing Body when any
of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the
written consent and directive of the Governing Body, the Fire Chief shall cause
the repair, improvement, or maintenance of the said equipment and shall
personally supervise and approve of the same. The Municipality is authorized to
enter into an agreement with the appropriate Rural Fire District for mutual aid
and protection. The Municipality may expend such sums of money and levy such
taxes as are not in conflict with state law to support this mutual aid and
protection. (Ref. 17-147, 17-718, 17-953 RS Neb.)
§ 3-302 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his duty to
inform the Governing Body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or other
apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the Governing
Body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or maintenance of the
said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It shall
be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Governing Body at the regular
meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the Governing Body
of the general condition and the proposed additions or improvements recommended
by him.
§ 3-303 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; MEMBERSHIP.  
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council. The Fire Chief shall appoint
no more than twenty-five (25) members for each fire department company subject
to the review and approval of the City Council. All vacancies shall be filled
in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code or the laws of
the State of Nebraska.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered to be employees of
the city for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and other
benefits. The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age sixty-five (65) covering the lives of all of
the City’s active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any
such person serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire
protection district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first
municipality or district which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a
minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any cause and shall, at the
option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at
age sixty-five (65). The coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any
individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the fire department
of the city.  (Ref. 35-108 RS Neb.)
   (F)   For purposes of section 33-139.01 RS Neb., volunteer firefighters and
rescue squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not
be deemed employees of the City. (Ref. 33-139.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
639, 1/6/04)
§ 3-304 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all
fires, and shall make a full report of such records to the Municipal Clerk
during the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include
the cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal
conduct may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he
shall include the information of whether such losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
§ 3-305 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRES.  
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the Municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 3-306 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIGHTING DISTANT FIRES.
   The firefighters of the Municipality shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the Municipality when directed
to do so by the Mayor or Chief of the Fire Department or some person authorized
to act for such Chief and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the
Municipality as may be designated by the Governing Body.
§ 3-307 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.  
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department shall have the power during
the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property
whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such
property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining
property. The said officials may direct the Municipal firefighters to remove
any building, structure, or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of
any fire, and the official in charge of the fire fighting effort shall have the
power to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any
building or erection during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
extinguishing or checking the same.
§ 3-308 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; IMPERSONATING FIREMEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a fireman by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a fireman for the purpose of
obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit
the theatrical representation of a fireman for bona fide entertainment purposes
when there is no intent to defraud. (Ref. 28-609 RS Neb.)
§ 3-309 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Municipal Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or
in the removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects, or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 3-310 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; POWER OF ARREST.  
   The Municipal Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of thirty-six (36) hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the fire fighting effort, or any person who conducts himself in a
noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally vested with
the usual powers and authority of Municipal Policemen to command all persons to
assist them in the performance of their duties.
§ 3-311 MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE INVESTIGATION.  
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the Municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
fifty ($50.00) dollars. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such
officers shall especially make an investigation and report as to whether such
fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. Such investigation
shall be begun within two (2) days of the occurrence of such fire and the State
Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation
whenever he deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the
investigation of fires occurring within the Municipality shall immediately
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one (1) week of the occurrence
of the fire, furnish him with a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire, and such further information as he may call
for. (Ref. 81-506 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Police Department
Section
   
3-401   Police Department; Duties
   
3-402   Police Department; Contracting for Services
   
3-403   Police Department; Arrest and Enforcement Jurisdiction
§ 3-401 POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular policemen as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the department. He shall devote his whole time to the
municipal affairs, interests of the Municipality, and to the preservation of
peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof. The Department shall execute and
enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the
Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There shall be a
proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the Municipality. The Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special policemen
shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the Municipality, and shall
see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against
any person or persons for violation of the same.
§ 3-402 POLICE DEPARTMENT; CONTRACTING FOR SERVICES.  
   The Mayor and City Council, in lieu of creating and maintaining a municipal
Police Department, may contract with another duly authorized law enforcement
agency for the performance of all or a part of the services required to carry
out and enforce all laws of the Municipality, and orders of the Mayor, for the
preservation of peace, order, health, safety, and welfare thereof. (Ord. No.
693, 9/20/05)
§ 3-403 POLICE DEPARTMENT; ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.  
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail or other place of confinement to prevent their escape until
trial can be had before the proper officer. (Ref. 17-118 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer's primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within twenty- five (25)
miles of the boundaries of the officer's primary jurisdiction and there arrest
and detain that person and return that person to the officer's primary
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in section 13-1802 RS Neb.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or in
the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug or otherwise in violation of sections 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02 RS Neb., a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority
to do any of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer's primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer's primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer's primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of sections 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02 RS Neb. (Ref. 29-215 RS Neb.)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency, or civil defense emergency or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the Nebraska Emergency
Management Agency or with any other related training program, the law
enforcement personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this
state or any legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they
are rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including
the authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or
performing the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall
self-insure or contract for insurance against any liability for personal
injuries or property damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as
the result of any movement made pursuant to this division. (Ref. 81-829.65 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 988, 8/7/18)
Article 5. Parks
Section
   
3-501   Municipal Parks; Operation and Funding
   
3-502   Municipal Parks; Injury to Property
   
3-503   Municipal Parks; Recreational Trails; Regulation and Control
   
3-504   Municipal Parks; Closing Time
§ 3-501 MUNICIPAL PARKS; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Parks and other
recreational areas through the Board of Park Commissioners. The Governing Body,
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance
of the Municipal Park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in
the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Board shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the Municipal Parks
and other recreational areas of the Municipality. The Board shall not enter
into a contract of any nature which involves an expenditure of funds, except
for ordinary operating expenses, unless the contract has been approved by
resolution of the majority of the members of the Governing Body prior to the
contractual agreement. (Ref. 17-948 through 17-952 RS Neb.)
§ 3-502 MUNICIPAL PARKS; INJURY TO PROPERTY.  
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the Municipal Parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste
on or litter the Municipal Parks or other public grounds.
§ 3-503 MUNICIPAL PARKS; RECREATIONAL TRAILS; REGULATION AND CONTROL.  
   The governing body shall have the power to enact by resolution, rules and
regulations for the protection, preservation, and operation of the city's
recreational trails. They may also provide suitable penalties for the violation
of such rules and regulations. (Ref. 13-304, 17-948, and 17-949 RS Neb.)  (Ord.
No. 669, 1/4/05)
§ 3-504 MUNICIPAL PARKS; CLOSING TIME.  
   Unless otherwise provided and posted all parks, playground areas and
recreational trails in the City shall be closed to the public between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. daily. Exceptions to such closing time may be
granted to supervised or organized activities sponsored by or permitted by the
City Council. (Ord. No. 944, 2/7/17)
Article 6. Library
Section
   
3-601   Municipal Library; Operation and Funding
   
3-602   Municipal Library; Books
   
3-603   Municipal Library; Rules and Regulations
   
3-604   Municipal Library; Books Issued
   
3-605   Municipal Library; Damaged and Lost Books
   
3-606   Municipal Library; Book Removal
   
3-607   Municipal Library; Cost of Use
   
3-608   Municipal Library; Money Collected
   
3-609   Municipal Library; Discrimination Prohibited
   
3-610   Municipal Library; Board; Annual Report
   
3-611   Municipal Library; Penalties; Recovery; Disposition
§ 3-601 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Library through the Library
Board. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the Library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Municipal Library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as they may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the Library as may
be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under
the supervision and control of the Governing Body. (Ref. 51-201, 51-202, 51-211
RS Neb.)
§ 3-602 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOKS.  
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange, or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books in the Library.
Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or
duplicate books so disposed of. (Ref. 51-207 RS Neb.)
§ 3-603 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.  
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the Municipal Library for the preservation and efficient management thereof.
They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
injury to the Library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for failure
to return a book. All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected in
civil action in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the said
assessments. (Ref. 51-205, 51-214 RS Neb.)
§ 3-604 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOKS ISSUED.
   The Librarian shall keep, or cause to be kept, a register of all books
issued and returned at the time they shall so be issued and returned. None of
the books shall be detained more than fourteen (14) days without being renewed.
No book may be renewed more than two (2) consecutive times by any person
without the special permission of the Librarian or an authorized employee of
the Municipal Library. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-605 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the Library
shall forfeit and pay to the Library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may
assess. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-606 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOK  REMOVAL.  
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the Library, without the consent of
the Librarian, or an authorized employee of the Library. Any person removing a
book from the Library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-607 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the Municipal
Library and reading room shall be forever free to the use of the inhabitants of
the Municipality, subject always to such reasonable regulations as the Library
Board may adopt to render the Library of the greatest use to such inhabitants.
The Library Board may exclude from the use of the Library and reading rooms any
person who willfully violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations
established for the government thereof. (Ref. 51-212 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The Library shall make its basic services available without charge to
all residents of the Municipality. The Library Board may fix and impose
reasonable fees, not to exceed the library's actual cost, for nonbasic
services. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   Basic services shall include, but not be limited to, free loan of
circulating print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general
reference and information services; and
      (2)   Nonbasic services shall include, but not be limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
   (d)   Personal computers; and
   (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Ref. 51-201.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 554, 4/2/02)
§ 3-608 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; MONEY  COLLECTED.  
   Any money collected by the Library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the Municipal Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue. (Ref. 51-209 RS Neb.)
§ 3-609 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 554, 4/2/02)
§ 3-610 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOARD; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn form the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest,
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the President and Secretary of the Library Board. (Ref. 51-213 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 554, 4/2/02) (Amended by Ord. No. 656, 11/2/04)
§ 3-611 MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorney’s
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the treasury of the
municipality to the credit of the Library Fund. Attorney’s fees collected
pursuant to this section shall be placed in the treasury of the Municipality
and credited to the budget of the Municipal Attorney’s office. (Ref. 51-214 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 554, 4/2/02)
Article 7. Auditorium
Section
   
3-701   Municipal Auditorium; Ownership
   
3-702   Municipal Auditorium; Rentals
   
3-703   Municipal Auditorium; Rules and Regulations
§ 3-701 MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM; OWNERSHIP.
   The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Auditorium through the
Auditorium Committee. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost
of the management, maintenance, and improvements on the Municipal Auditorium
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Auditorium Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deed
of conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property
and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Municipal
Auditorium. The Auditorium Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Committee shall have the power to hire and supervise
such employees as they may deem necessary and shall pass such rules and
regulations for the operation of the Auditorium as may be proper for its
efficient management. All actions by the Committee shall be under the
supervision and control of the Governing Body and in the event that the
Governing Body should fail or neglect to appoint an Auditorium Committee, the
Governing Body shall be the Auditorium Committee ex officio. (Ref. 17-953
through 17-955 RS Neb.)
§ 3-702 MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM; RENTALS.  
   The Auditorium Committee may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses
involved in maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the Auditorium,
make a reasonable rental charge for the use by any person or organization of
the Auditorium. The Committee shall prescribe rules and regulations for such
rentals subject to the review of the Governing Body. Rental rates may be
structured for classes of persons and organizations in a reasonable manner;
provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit or allow
discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, or national origin in the
classification of persons and organizations for rental purposes. (Ref. 17-953
RS Neb.)
§ 3-703 MUNICIPAL AUDITORIUM; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Auditorium Committee shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws,
rules, and regulations for the protection of the Municipal Auditorium and the
safety of those using the Auditorium facilities. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules, and regulations subject to
the supervision and review of the Governing Body. All damage suffered by the
Auditorium during any rental shall be assessed against the person or
organization responsible for the rental thereof, or shall be deducted from the
damage deposit which the Auditorium Committee may in their discretion have
required prior to the said rental. The Committee may require during any rental,
persons deputized as Municipal Police to insure that the said rules and
regulations, and the Municipal Code is not violated. The wages of such persons
shall be set by the Auditorium Committee and shall be paid prior to the
beginning of the rental period. All rental fees, rules, and regulations shall
be on file for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk at any
reasonable time.  (Ref. 17-953 RS Neb.)
Article 8. Utilities Generally
Section
   
3-801   Utilities Generally; Diversion of Services; Civil Action
   
3-802   Utilities Generally; Discontinuance of Service, Notice Procedure
   
3-803   Utilities Generally; Diversion of Services, Meter Tampering,
Unauthorized Reconnection, Prohibited; Evidence
   
3-804   Utilities Generally; Denial of Utility Service; When Prohibited
§ 3-801 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the definitions found in section 25-
21,275 RS Neb. shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The Municipality may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts:
         (a)   Bypassing,
         (b)   Tampering, or
         (c)   Unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
municipal utility.
The Municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to this section
against any person receiving the benefit of utility service through means of
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the
Municipality shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) if
the amount of actual damage or loss is not susceptible of reasonable
calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under subdivision (2)(a) or (b), the
Municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account
of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit, and reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within the scope of section 25-
1801 RS Neb. (Ref. 25-21,276 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
          (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist. (Ref. 25-21,277 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.  (Ref. 25-21,278 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 256, 11/1/83) (Amended by Ord. No. 610, 4/1/03)
§ 3-802 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, or businesses of any nature. (Ref. 70-1602 RS Neb.)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the City, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this City shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such
notice shall be given in person, by first-class mail, or by electronic
delivery, except that electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber
has specifically elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If
notice is given by first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall
be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven (7) days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and
weekends shall be excluded from the seven (7) days. A public or private utility
company shall not charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of
utility service that exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Ref. 70-1605 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The notice required by division (A) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility's employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's, physician
assistant's, or advanced practice registered nurse's certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five (5) days of receiving notice under
this section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the
disconnection of the utility's service for a period of at least thirty (30)
days from such filing. Only one (1) postponement of disconnection shall be
required under this division for each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due
account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a City utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility. (Ref. 70-1606 RS Neb.)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures. (Ref. 70-1607 RS Neb.)
   (E)   The provisions of sections 70-1608 through 70-1614 RS Neb. shall apply
to disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any City utility, one (1) copy of which is on file
in the office of the City Clerk, are hereby incorporated by reference in
addition to any amendments thereto and are made a part of this section as
though set out in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public. (Ref. 70-1615 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 211, 4/1/80) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
274, 12/4/84; 425, 6/17/97; 924, 5/17/16; 1090, 12/7/21)
§ 3-803 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING,
UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION, PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person:
      (1)   To connect any pipe or conduit supplying water, without the
knowledge and consent of the Municipality, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering
the amount or quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of water obtained
unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect water service without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality if the service has been disconnected pursuant to sections 70-1601
to 70-1615 RS Neb.; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of water passing through it, without the knowledge and consent of the
Municipality.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any pipe or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist. (Ref. 28-515.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 386, 12/
19/95) (Amended by Ord. No. 609, 4/1/03)
§ 3-804 UTILITIES GENERALLY; DENIAL OF UTILITY SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity in this Municipality shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitation or discharge in bankruptcy
proceedings. (Ref. 70-1601 RS Neb.) (Ord. 481, 4/7/99)
Article 9. Penal Provision
Section
   
3-901   Violations; Penalty
§ 3-901 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person, or any person's agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
CHAPTER 4: HEALTH AND SANITATION
   Article
      
Article 1. General Provisions
      
Article 2. Garbage Disposal
      
Article 3. Nuisances
      
Article 4. Solid Waste Disposal Areas
      
Article 5. Penal Provisions
Article 1. General Provisions
Section
   
4-101   Health; Regulations
   
4-102   Health; Enforcement Official
   
4-103   Health; County Health Board
§ 4-101 HEALTH; REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
Municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.) 
§ 4-102 HEALTH; ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.  
   The Municipal Police Chief shall be the chief health officer of the
Municipality. It shall be his duty to notify the Governing Body of health
nuisances and of every case of contagious, infectious, or malignant disease.
§ 4-103 HEALTH; COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
Municipality.
Article 2. Garbage Disposal
Section
   
4-201   Garbage; Defined
   
4-202   Rubbish; Defined
   
4-203   Waste; Defined
   
4-204   Garbage; Trash, and Waste
§ 4-201 GARBAGE; DEFINED.  
   The term ‘’garbage’‘ as used herein shall be defined to mean kitchen refuse,
decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may decompose and become
offensive to the public health.
§ 4-202 RUBBISH; DEFINED.
   The terms ‘’rubbish’‘ or ‘’trash’‘ as used herein shall be defined as
discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead trees, branches,
bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags, or any other
litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of the residents
of the Municipality.
§ 4-203 WASTE; DEFINED.
   The term “waste” as herein defined shall mean cinders, ashes, plaster,
brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
§ 4-204 GARBAGE; TRASH, AND WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premise, or any other place in the Municipality, decayed vegetable
or animal substance, garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be
injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
Municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles not exceeding a thirty (30)
gallon capacity and as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be
unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks, or other public
grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste, or rubbish of
any kind. No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste, or refuse to collect
and all persons shall remove the same from their property within twenty-four
(24) hours after being notified to do so by the Municipal Police Chief who
shall represent the Board of Health. Any person having garbage, rubbish, waste,
or refuse that is subject to decay or fermentation within a short period of
time shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight
cover, or a durable plastic container that is securely tied at its opening. All
persons shall have the contents of their garbage cans removed at least once
every two weeks.
Article 3. Nuisances
Section
   
4-301   Nuisances; Specifically Defined
   
4-302   Nuisances; Jurisdiction
   
4-303   Nuisances; Abatement Procedure
§ 4-301 NUISANCES; SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions, and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish,
or fowl;
   (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
   (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the Municipality;
   (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the Municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
   (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
   (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which said places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
   (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when said places in which said animals are confined, or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the Municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
   (12)   All trees on private property that are in a diseased, dying, or dead
condition or that may serve as a breeding place for the European Elm Bark
Beetle, Scolytus Multistriatus, or other disease carrying insects.
   (13)   Sinkholes that constitute a hazard, physical or otherwise, and/or
creates an unsafe condition. Sinkholes are defined as a circular, elliptical,
or irregular-shaped depression in the ground surface, usually formed by surface
collapse into a subsurface void that:
      1.   Exceeds twenty-four (24) inches in diameter in any one (1)
direction, or
      2.   Exceeds forty-eight (48) inches in depth at any location, or
      3.   Any bank of the hole exceeds forty-five (45) degrees in slope from
the horizontal surface edge of the hole.
Remediation shall include filling the sinkhole with clean fill dirt level with
the ground at the sinkhole's edge and seeding and strawing the fill area to
prevent erosion.
   (14)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this Code.
(Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 882, 5/5/15; 941, 1/17/17)
§ 4-302 NUISANCES; JURISDICTION.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police of the Municipality are directed to enforce
this Municipal Code against all nuisances. The jurisdiction of the Mayor, Chief
of Police, and court shall extend to, and the territorial application of this
Chapter shall include, all territory adjacent to the limits of the Municipality
within two (2) miles thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 4-303 NUISANCES; ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the Municipality shall keep such
real estate free of nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures
are otherwise provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to abatement
of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the governing body and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
or by conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the
nuisance is to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition
as found by the Board of Health or designated official and state that the
condition has been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (C)   If within five (5) days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the Municipality or fails to comply with the order
to abate and remove the nuisance, the Board of Health shall certify its
findings to the governing body. If, after consideration of the evidence
submitted by the Board of Health or designated official, the governing body
finds that the condition is a nuisance and the owner or occupant has not
requested a hearing and has not abated or removed the nuisance, the
Municipality may have such work done and assess the costs of such work pursuant
to division (E) of this section.
   (D)   If within five (5) days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the governing body, the governing body shall fix a time and place
at which a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by
personal service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear
before the governing body to show cause why such condition should not be found
to be a nuisance and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven
(7) nor more than fourteen (14) days before the time of the hearing. Upon the
date fixed for the hearing and pursuant to the notice, the governing body shall
hear all objections made by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence
submitted by the Board of Health or designated official. If after consideration
of all the evidence, the governing body finds that the condition is a nuisance,
it shall, by resolution, order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the
nuisance at once. If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the governing body may
have such work done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two (2) months after such work is done, the Municipality shall levy
and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real estate so
benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as other special
assessments for improvements are levied and assessed.
(Ord. No. 204, 11/6/79) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 913, 5/17/16; 1116, 9/20/22)
Article 4. Solid Waste Disposal Areas
Section
   
4-401   Solid Waste Disposal Areas; Licenses; Application Procedure
§ 4-401 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AREAS; LICENSES; APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (1)   No person, partnership, industry, corporation, governmental
subdivision or agency shall operate, maintain or construct a solid waste
disposal area of a type that must be licensed by the Nebraska Department of
Environmental Control at any place located over any groundwater source that
supplies drinking water to the residents of Springfield, Nebraska, either
within the corporate limits of the City or within five miles of the corporate
limits of the City, except for a solid waste disposal area which has obtained a
license as provided for in this section. A person, partnership, industry,
corporation, governmental subdivision or agency desiring a license to operate a
new solid waste disposal area shall make application to the City. The
application shall contain the name and residence of the applicant and the
location of the proposed disposal area and a copy of the application,
operational plan and all addenda filed with Nebraska Department of
Environmental Control. The application shall be filed with the City Clerk. Upon
filing the application, each applicant shall pay an application fee of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   (2)   Upon receipt of the application and filing fee, the City Council shall
hire an independent engineering firm to review the application. The engineering
review shall determine what effect, if any, the proposed solid waste disposal
area will have on the groundwater that supplies drinking water.
   (3)   The engineering review shall be available in the City Clerk’s office
five (5) days prior to the public hearing.
   (4)   Before any solid waste disposal area shall be approved by the City, a
public hearing shall be held by the City Council within forty-five (45) days of
the receipt of the application.
   (5)   The City shall give notice at least ten (10) days before the hearing
on the application. Such notice shall be given by publication of a notice one
time in a newspaper either published in or having general circulation in
Springfield. The notice shall state the time and place of hearing, the name and
address of the applicant for the license, and the exact location of the
proposed solid waste disposal area.
   (6)   Within ten (10) days following the public hearing, the City Council
shall hold a special meeting and vote on the application for the solid waste
disposal license. The City Council shall consider the application, the
independent engineering report and the testimony from the public hearing. The
purpose of the license is to protect the groundwater that supplies drinking
water to the Springfield residents. The license shall be granted if it is shown
beyond a reasonable doubt that construction of the solid waste disposal area
will not contaminate the groundwater that supplies drinking water to the
residents of Springfield.
   (7)   The initial license shall be for a period of five (5) years and may be
renewed every five (5) years for a renewal fee of five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   (8)   If the City Council votes to grant the license, the City Clerk shall
issue a license to the applicant upon filing by the applicant with the City of
a performance bond in the amount equal to five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
acre of the disposal area, but not less than twenty-five hundred dollars
($2,500.00), which bond shall terminate one (1) year following the last day of
the license period or subsequent renewal period.
   (9)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any provisions of this Chapter as set forth herein or incorporated by
reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. A
new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24)
hours of such failure to comply. In addition to all other relief, an injunction
may be brought against violating parties. (Ord. No. 305, 2/14/89) (Amended by
Ord. No. 311, 11/7/89)
Article 5. Penal Provisions
Section
   
4-501   Violations; Penalty
   
4-502   Abatement of Nuisance
§ 4-501 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY. 
   (1)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
§ 4-502 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC
   Article
      
Article 1. Definitions
      
Article
2. Municipal Traffic Regulations
      
Article 3. Prohibitions and Enforcement
      
Article 4. Bicycles, Minibikes, and Mopeds
      
Article 5. Parking
      
Article 6. Towing
      
Article 7. Traffic Violations Bureau
      
Article 8. Penal Provision
Article 1. Definitions
Section
   
5-101   Definitions
§ 5-101 DEFINITIONS. 
   The words and phrases used in this Chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Chapter 39 of the
Reissued Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943, as now existing or hereafter
amended. If not defined in the designated statute, the word or phrase shall
have its common meaning. (Ref. 39-741 RS Neb.)
Article 2. Municipal Traffic Regulations
Section
   
5-201   Truck Routes
   
5-202   Traffic Lanes; Designation
   
5-203   Arterial Streets; Designation
   
5-204   Turning; "U" Turns
   
5-205   Turning; Generally
   
5-206   Turning; Cautious
   
5-207   Right-of-way; Generally
   
5-208   Right-of-way; Emergency Vehicles
   
5-209   Position of Vehicle on Highway; Generally
   
5-210   Crosswalks
   
5-211   Signs, Signals
   
5-212   Stop Signs
   
5-213   Signs, Traffic Control Devices, Traffic Surveillance Devices; Defacing
or Interfering with
   
5-214   School Crossing Zones; Designation
   
5-215   Restrictions on Direction of Travel
§ 5-201 TRUCK ROUTES.  
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
Municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through, or about the Municipality. The Governing
Body shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes. (Ref. 60-681 RS Neb.)
§ 5-202 TRAFFIC LANES; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, mark lanes for traffic on street
pavements at such places as it may deem advisable. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-203 ARTERIAL STREETS; DESIGNATION.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street or portion
thereof as an arterial street and shall provide for appropriate signs or
markings when such street has been so designated. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-204 TURNING; "U" TURNS.  
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction,
except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in
the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-205 TURNING; GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach
such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two (2) streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the center of the intersection shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another. (Ref. 60-6,159 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-206 TURNING; CAUTIOUS.  
   The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning, or changing the
course of such vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make such
movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by such movement, the
operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and whenever
the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement, he shall
give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all other vehicles of his
intention to make such movement. (Ref. 60-6,163 RS Neb.)
§ 5-207 RIGHT-OF-WAY; GENERALLY.  
   When two (2) vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately
the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and
there is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a Municipal
Policeman stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to
turn to the left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall
yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly
marked crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block
where the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a Municipal street
from a private road, or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on such streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield
the right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated
upon official business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or
audible signals. (Ref. 60-6,146 through 60-6,150 RS Neb.)
§ 5-208 RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
one (1) block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop,
except at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which
event, such vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop.
Every vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move
to a position as near the right hand curb as possible and remain there until
such authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, said
vehicles are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of
proper visual or audible signals.  (Ref. 60-6,151 RS Neb.)
§ 5-209 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; GENERALLY.  
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the driver
of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing
or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one-half (½)
of the main traveled portion of the roadway. (Ref. 60-6,133, 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-210 CROSSWALKS.  
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by
appropriate devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at
intersections where there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
street, and at such other places as they may deem necessary.  (Ref. 60-680 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-211 SIGNS, SIGNALS.  
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop
signs, or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street
or alley under the Municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
or prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of
the street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with such regulation, or prohibition. (Ref. 60-
6,119 through 60-6,121, 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-212 STOP SIGNS.  
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the resolution prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway, or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible. (Ref. 60-6,119 through 60-6,121, 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-213 SIGNS, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES, TRAFFIC SURVEILLANCE DEVICES;
DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic control device, or traffic control surveillance device.
(Ref. 60-6,129, 60-6,130 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 320, 3/13/90)
§ 5-214 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; DESIGNATION. 
   (1)   Section 60-682.01 RS Neb. provides fines for operating a motor vehicle
in violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled
if the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
   (2)   Section 60-6,134.01 RS Neb. makes it unlawful for a person operating a
motor vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in
which the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides
fines for violation of that prohibition.
   (3)   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the Governing Body in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Ref. 60-658.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 457, 8/4/98)
§ 5-215 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL. 
   (A)   With respect to highways under its jurisdiction, the City Council may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one (1) direction at all times or at such
times as shall be indicated by traffic control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such
roundabout.  
(Ref. 60-6.138 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1117, 9/20/22)
Article 3. Prohibitions and Enforcement
Section
   
5-301   Littering
   
5-302   Signs; Defacing or Interfering with
   
5-303   Speed Limits
   
5-304   Drunken Driving; Penalty
   
5-305   Reckless Driving
   
5-306   Careless Driving
   
5-307   Driving Abreast
   
5-308   Driving in Sidewalk Space
   
5-309   Backing
   
5-310   Unnecessary Stopping
   
5-311   Vehicle; Muffler
   
5-312   Emergency; Regulations
   
5-313   Police; Refusal to Obey
   
5-314   Traffic Citations; Form
   
5-315   Traffic Citations; Disposition and Records
   
5-316   Traffic Citation; Illegal Cancellation
   
5-317   Summons; Destruction
   
5-318   Child Passengers; Use of Restraint System or Occupant Protection System
   
5-319   Highway Speed Limits
   
5-320   Vehicles; Equipment and Maintenance
   
5-321   Registration; Operator and Vehicle License
   
5-322   Registration; Trailers
   
5-323   School Crossing Zones; Overtaking and Passing
   
5-324   Engine Braking; Prohibited
   
5-325   Traffic Regulations; Vehicle Weight; Prohibitions on Operation of
Vehicles
   
5-326   Traffic Regulations; Unattended Motor Vehicle
§ 5-301 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
Governing Body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and whosoever shall be guilty of
such littering will be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ref. 39-311 RS Neb.)
§ 5-302 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. (Ref. 60-6,129
RS Neb.)
§ 5-303 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place
at a rate of speed greater than twenty-five (25) m.p.h. within the residential
district, and twenty (20) m.p.h. within the business district, and twenty (20)
m.p.h. in the school district unless a different rate of speed is specifically
permitted by ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a
highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions.
Where a different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be
posted. (Ref. 60-6,185, 60-6,186, 60-6,190 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 282,
8/6/85)
§ 5-304 DRUNKEN DRIVING; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or be in actual physical
control of, any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, or
of any drug. Any person who shall operate or be in actual physical control of
any motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, or of any
drug, shall be deemed guilty of a crime, and upon conviction thereof, such
person shall be punished as provided by State law. For purposes of this section
the determination of whether an individual is under the influence of either
alcohol or drugs shall be as prescribed in the Statutes of Nebraska.
   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section, there
shall be assessed as part of the court costs, the fee charged by any physician
or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in accordance
with section 39-669.11 RRS, for the test administered and the analysis thereof
if such test was actually made.  (Ref. 60-6,212.07 through 60-6,212.13 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 203, 11/6/79)
§ 5-305 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute. (Ref. 60-6,213, 60-6,215, 60-4,182 RS Neb.)
§ 5-306 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this Municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving. (Ref. 60-6,212 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 213, 4/1/80)
§ 5-307 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two (2) or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing;
provided, motorcycles may be driven no more than two (2) abreast in a single
lane. (Ref. 60-6,139, 60-6,308 RS Neb.)
§ 5-308 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
No vehicle shall be driven within any sidewalk space, except a permanent or
temporary driveway. (Ref. 60-6,178 RS Neb.)
§ 5-309 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the Municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one half (1-1/2) lengths of the vehicle.
(Ref. 60-6,169, 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-310 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Ref. 60-6,166, 60-680 RS Neb.) 
§ 5-311 VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this Municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
It shall be unlawful to use a ''muffler cut-out'' on any motor vehicle upon any
streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles. (Ref. 60-6,286, 60-2209 RS Neb.)
§ 5-312 EMERGENCY; REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 169, 9/2/75;
202, 11/6/79)
§ 5-313 POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-314 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; FORM.
   The Municipal Clerk shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic citations
containing notices to appear which shall be issued in books with citations in
duplicate.
   The Municipal Clerk shall be responsible for the issuance of such books, and
shall maintain a record of every such book, and each citation number therein
issued to the Municipal Police. The Clerk shall require and retain a receipt
for every book so issued. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-315 TRAFFIC CITATIONS; DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
   (A) When a citation is used by a peace officer or when a citation is used by
an official or inspector pursuant to section 18-1757 RS Neb., he or she shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person, the offense charged, and the time and place the person cited is
to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date, the time
of appearance shall be at least three (3) days after the issuance of the
citation. One (1) copy of the citation shall be delivered to the person cited,
and a duplicate thereof shall be signed by such person, giving his or her
promise to appear at the time and place stated therein. Such person thereupon
shall be released from custody. As soon as practicable, the copy signed by the
person shall be delivered to the prosecuting attorney.
   (B)   At least twenty-four (24) hours before the time set for the appearance
of the cited person, either the prosecuting attorney or other person authorized
by law to issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a
complaint charging such person with an offense or such person shall be released
from the obligation to appear as specified. A person cited pursuant to sections
29-422 and 29-429 RS Neb. may waive his or her right to trial. The Supreme
Court may prescribe uniform rules for such waivers.
   (C)   Anyone may use a credit card authorized by the court in which the
person is cited as a means of payment of his or her fine and costs. (Ref. 29-
424 RS Neb.)
§ 5-316 TRAFFIC CITATION; ILLEGAL CANCELLATION.
   Any person who cancels, or solicits the cancellation of any traffic citation
in any manner other than as provided herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-317 SUMMONS; DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear up, or destroy, a parking tag
placed upon any vehicle by the Municipal Police, or to disregard the summons
contained on such tag, and fail to appear in court as directed by said tag.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-318 CHILD PASSENGERS; USE OF RESTRAINT SYSTEM OR OCCUPANT PROTECTION
SYSTEM.
   (A) For purposes of this section, occupant protection system has the meaning
provided in section 60-6,265 RS Neb.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who drives any motor vehicle which has or is required
to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
         (a)   All children up to six (6) years of age being transported by
such vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, as such standard existed on January 1, 2006, and
which is correctly installed in such vehicle; and
         (b)   All children six (6) years of age and less than eighteen (18)
years of age being transported by such vehicle use an occupant protection
system.
       (2)   Division (B)(1) shall apply to every motor vehicle which is
equipped with an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with
restraint systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 208, as
such standard existed on January 1, 2006, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles,
and any motor vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or
earlier which is not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (C)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child's weight, physical condition, or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (B) shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (D)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (B) when operating such authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (B) if the motor vehicle is being operated in a parade or
exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in accordance with
applicable state law and local ordinances and resolutions.
   (F)   All persons being transported by a motor vehicle operated by the
holder of a provisional operator's permit or a school permit shall use such
motor vehicle's occupant protection system. (Ref. 60-6,267 RS Neb.)
   (G)   (1)   A person violating any provision of division (B) is guilty of an
offense. The failure to provide a child restraint system for more than one (1)
child in the same vehicle at the same time, as required in division (B), shall
not be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Enforcement of division (B)(1)(b) shall be accomplished only as a
secondary action when an operator of a motor vehicle has been cited or charged
with a violation of some other offense unless the violation involves a person
under the age of eighteen (18) years riding in or on any portion of the vehicle
not designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in
motion.  (Ref. 60-6,268 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 333, 1/8/91) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 507, 3/20/01; 611, 4/1/03; 654,
11/2/04)
§ 5-319 HIGHWAY SPEED LIMITS.  
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any portion of Nebraska Highway
50 adjacent to the corporate limits of Springfield, Nebraska in excess of the
following maximum limits:
   (A)   On Nebraska Highway 50 from seven hundred fifty (750) feet south of
Main Street to one thousand five hundred eighty (1,580) feet north of
Platteview Road - fifty (50) miles per hour.
   (B)   On Nebraska Highway 50 from one thousand five hundred eighty (1,580)
feet north of Platteview Road to the north corporate limits, one hundred sixty
(160) feet south of Capehart Road - sixty (60) miles per hour. (Ord. No. 338,
4/2/91)  (Amended by Ord. No. 1078, 10/5/21)
§ 5-320 VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.
   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys, or highways of the
Municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate to control the
movement of, to stop, and to hold such or payment of a fine to the court by the
person to whom such vehicle, including two (2) separate means of applying the
brakes, and shall be further equipped with a good and sufficient horn in good
working order, or other efficient signal devices. From sunset to sunrise, and
any other time when there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible
persons or vehicles upon the street, alley, or highway at a distance of five
hundred feet (500'), every motor vehicle shall be equipped with lighted
headlights, and every motor vehicle and trailer shall be equipped with one or
more taillights, at the rear of the motor vehicle or trailer, exhibiting a red
light visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the rear
of such vehicle. No person shall operate any vehicle which is equipped with an
electric light or lights that confuse travelers or pedestrians on streets or
crosswalks within the Municipality. Every motor vehicle having a width of
eighty inches (80") or more shall display clearance lights as required by State
law. All vehicle brakes shall be maintained in good working order; provided,
motorcycles need only be equipped with one (1) brake. All horns on motor
vehicles shall be capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions
from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'); provided, no vehicle
except as herein provided, shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, or horn otherwise than as reasonable warning; nor
shall any person use any horn or warning device upon a vehicle to make any
unnecessary, loud, or harsh sound; and provided further that, every Police and
Fire Department vehicle, ambulance, or other authorized emergency vehicle used
for emergency calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren, or whistle of the
type approved by the Governing Body. (Ref. 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-
6,235, 60-6,244, 60-6,285 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 396, 2/20/96)
§ 5-321 REGISTRATION; OPERATOR AND VEHICLE LICENSE.
   (1)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle upon any street,
alley, or public highway within the Municipality without having first
registered the same in accordance with Chapter 60, Article 3, RS Neb., and
section 60-321 RS Neb., except as provided in this subsection. A person may
operate a motor vehicle without registration for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days from the date of purchase. Upon registration, such vehicle shall have
the required number plates displayed upon said vehicle in the manner and places
provided for by section 60-323 RS Neb. If a citation is issued to an owner or
operator of a vehicle for a violation of this subsection and the owner properly
registers and licenses the vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and
fees due and the owner or operator provides proof of such registration to the
prosecuting attorney within ten (10) days after the issuance of the citation,
no prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
   (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or
public highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator's license in
accordance with Chapter 60, Article 4, RS Neb. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley, or public highway
during the period that his or her operator's license has been revoked or
canceled. (Ref. 60-302, 60-320, 60-320.01, 60-321, 60-323, 60-4,186 RS Neb.) 
(Ord. No. 394, 2/20/96)
§ 5-322 REGISTRATION; TRAILERS.  
   No trailer, semitrailer, or cabin trailer shall be operated or parked on any
street, alley, or public highway within the Municipality without having first
registered the same in accordance with Chapter 60, Article 3, RS Neb., and
section 60-321 RS Neb., except as provided in this section. A person may pull
such trailer, semitrailer, or cabin trailer without registration for a period
not to exceed thirty (30) days from the date of purchase. Upon registration,
such trailer, semitrailer, or cabin trailer shall have the required number
plate displayed upon said trailer as provided for by section 60-311 RS Neb. If
a citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for a violation of
this section and the owner properly registers and licenses the vehicle not in
compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or operator provides
proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney within ten (10) days
after the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense cited shall
occur. (Ref. 60-302, 60-320, 60-321 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 395, 2/20/96)
§ 5-323 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES; OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
    A person operating a motor vehicle may not overtake and pass another
vehicle in any school crossing zone designated by the Governing Body in which
the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction. (Ref. 60-6,134.01
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 458, 8/4/98)
§ 5-324 ENGINE BRAKING; PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful within the corporate limits of the City for any
operator of a motor vehicle with a total gross vehicle weight rating of seven
thousand (7,000) pounds or more, including its towed unit or units, to attempt
to retard the forward movement of said vehicle by initiating any engine braking
device or system to contain the engine's compression, thus rapidly slowing the
engine's revolutions per minute. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 569, 9/3/02)
§ 5-325 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; VEHICLE WEIGHT; PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF
VEHICLES.
   (A) The City may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the operation of
vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight of vehicles,
for a total period not to exceed one hundred eighty (180) days in any one (1)
calendar year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for
the maintenance of which the City is responsible whenever any such highway by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The City shall erect or cause to be
erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the
ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The City may also, by ordinance oi resolution, prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways. (Ref. 60-681 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 955, 5/2/17)
§ 5-326 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.  
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C)   Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
   (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway. (Ref. 60-6,168 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
987, 8/7/18)
Article 4. Bicycles, Minibikes, and Mopeds
Section
   
5-401   Bicycle; Operation
   
5-402   Minibikes; Unlawful Operation
   
5-403   Minibikes; Traffic Laws Inapplicable
   
5-404   Mopeds; Defined
   
5-404.01   Mopeds; Operator's License Required
   
5-404.02   Mopeds; Traffic Regulations Applicable
   
5-404.03   Mopeds; Operation
   
5-404.04   Mopeds; Use of Traffic Lanes
   
5-404.05   Mopeds; Equipment
   
5-405   Skateboards; Defined; Unlawful Operation
   
5-406   Utility-type Vehicles and Minitrucks
§ 5-401 BICYCLE; OPERATION.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public highway
of this Municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position
in front of the operator.
   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but every
bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the operator
and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at all stop
signs.
   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway from
one-half (1/2) hour after sunset and one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise without
a headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front
thereof for not less than five hundred (500') feet indicating the approach or
presence of the bicycle, firmly attached to such bicycle, and properly lighted,
or without a yellow, or red light reflector attached to, and visible five
hundred (500') feet from the rear thereof. The said headlight shall give a
clear, white light.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a bicycle.
   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and
shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the right-hand
side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles
and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass vehicles to the right
when meeting.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks within the Business
District. (Ref. 60-6,315, 60-6,317, 60-6,318 RS Neb.) 
§ 5-402 MINIBIKES; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.  
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the Municipality. For purposes of this
Article, ''minibike'' shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total
wheel and tire diameter of less than fourteen (14") inches or an engine rated
capacity of less than forty-five (45) cubic centimeters displacement or any
other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-
road use only. (Ref. 60-2101.01, 60-2107 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 235, 4/
5/83)
§ 5-403 MINIBIKES; TRAFFIC LAWS INAPPLICABLE.
   Minibikes, their owners, and their operators shall be exempt from the
requirements of the Motor Vehicle Operator's License Act, the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act and the Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act. (Ref. 60-
6,347 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 655, 11/2/04)
§ 5-404 MOPEDS; DEFINED.  
   For the purposes of this Article, moped shall mean a bicycle with fully
operative pedals for propulsion by human power, an automatic transmission, and
a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding fifty cubic centimeters (50cc),
which produces no more than two brake horsepower and is capable of propelling
the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than thirty miles per hour (30
m.p.h.) on level ground. Mopeds, their owners, and their operators, shall be
subject to the Motor Vehicle Operator's License Act, but shall be exempt from
the requirements of the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act, and the Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act.
(Ref. 60-6,309 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 214, 4/1/80) 
§ 5-404.01 MOPEDS; OPERATOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys, or public highways
of the Municipality unless such person has a valid motor vehicle operator's
license or a valid school or learner's permit. (Ref. 60-6,310 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 214, 4/1/80)
§ 5-404.02 MOPEDS; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.  
   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under Chapter 5 of this Code and sections 30-601 to 39-6,122, R.R.S. of
Nebraska, 1943, and amendments thereto, except for those provisions of such
sections which by their nature can have no application. Such regulations
applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a moped shall be operated upon any
street, alley, or public highway within the Municipality or upon any path set
aside by the Department of Roads or local authority for the use of mopeds.
Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in excess of twenty-five
miles per hour (25 m.p.h.), no person shall operate any moped at a speed in
excess of thirty miles per hour (30 m.p.h.). (Ref. 60-6,311 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
214, 4/1/80)
§ 5-404.03 MOPEDS; OPERATION.
   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and shall not carry any other person nor shall any other
person ride on a moped unless such moped is designed by the manufacturer to
carry more than one (1) person.
   Any person shall ride a moped only while sitting astride the seat, facing
forward. Further, no person shall operate a moped while carrying any package,
bundle, or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on
the handlebars. No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride,
in a position that will interfere with the operation or control of the moped or
the view of the operator. No person who rides upon a moped shall attach him or
her self or the moped to any other vehicle on a roadway. (Ref. 60-6,312 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 214, 4/1/80)
§ 5-404.04 MOPEDS; USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any street or
highway with an authorized speed limit of forty-five (45 m.p.h.) miles per hour
or less and no vehicle shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any
moped of the full use of such lane. This section shall not apply to mopeds or
motorcycles operated two (2) abreast in a single lane. No person shall operate
a moped between lanes of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
Mopeds shall not be operated more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. Any
person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized speed limit of more
than forty-five (45 m.p.h.) miles per hour shall ride as near to the right side
of the roadway as practicable, and shall not ride more than single file. (Ref.
60-6,313 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 214, 4/1/80)
§ 5-404.05  MOPEDS; EQUIPMENT.
   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests for
such passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than
fifteen (15") inches above the mounting point of the handlebars.  (Ord. No.
214, 4/1/80)
§ 5-405 SKATEBOARDS; DEFINED; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.  
   It shall be unlawful to operate any skateboard upon any street or highway.
For the purpose of this section, "skateboard" shall be defined as any device
made of wood, plastic or other material with wheels attached on the bottom
which is designed to be ridden by standing or sitting on the wooden, plastic or
other surface. (Ord. No. 329, 12/4/90)
§ 5-406 UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES AND MINITRUCKS.
   (1)   For purposes of this section:
      MINITRUCK. A foreign-manufactured import vehicle or domestic-manufactured
vehicle which:
         1.   Is powered by an internal combustion engine with a piston or
rotor displacement of one thousand (1,000) cubic centimeters or less;
         2.   Is sixty-seven (67) inches or less in width;
         3.   Has a dry weight of four thousand two hundred (4,200) pounds or
less;
         4.   Travels on four (4) or more tires;
         5.   Has a top speed of approximately fifty-five (55) miles per hour;
         6.   Is equipped with a bed or compartment for hauling;
         7.   Has an enclosed passenger cab;
         8.   Is equipped with headlights, tail lights, turn signals,
windshield wipers, a rearview mirror, and an occupant protections system; and
         9.   Has a four (4)-speed, five (5)-speed, or automatic transmission.
(Ref. 60-121.01, 60-337.01, 60-363.01 RS Neb.)
      STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         1.   Is not less than forty-eight (48) inches nor more than seventy-
four (74) inches in width;
         2.   Is not more than one hundred thirty-five (135) inches, including
the bumper, in length;
         3.   Has a dry weight of not less than nine hundred (900) pounds nor
more than two thousand (2,000) pounds;
         4.   Travels on four (4) or more low-pressure tires; and
          5.   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type
seating designed for at least two (2) people to sit side-by-side.
      UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE or MINITRUCK. Does not include golf carts or low-
speed vehicles. (Ref. 60-135.01, 60-358.01)
   (2)   Utility-type vehicles and minitrucks may be operated on streets and
highways within the corporate limits of the city only if the operator and the
vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (3)   A utility-type vehicle or minitruck may be operated only between the
hours of sunrise and sunset and shall not be operated at a speed in excess of
thirty (30) miles per hour or the posted speed limit, whichever is lower. When
operating a utility-type vehicle or minitruck as authorized in subsection (2)
of this section, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle or minitruck shall
be on and the vehicle or minitruck shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag
which extends not less than five (5) feet above ground attached to the rear of
such vehicle or minitruck. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape
with an area of not less than thirty (30) square inches and shall be day-glow
in color. (Ref. 60-6,356 RS Neb.)
   (4)   Any person operating a utility-type vehicle or minitruck as authorized
in subsection (2) of this section shall have:
      (a)   A valid Class O operator's license or a farm permit as provided in
section 60-4,126 RS Neb; and
      (b)   Liability insurance coverage for the utility-type vehicle or
minitruck while operating the utility-type vehicle or minitruck on a street or
highway. The person operating the utility-type vehicle or minitruck shall
provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such
proof within five (5) days of such a request. (Ref. 60-6,356 RS Neb.)
   (5)   Every utility-type vehicle or minitruck shall be equipped with:
      (a)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition;
      (b)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
      (c)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester. (Ref. 60-
6,358 RS Neb.)
   (6)   No person shall:
      (a)   Equip the exhaust system of a utility-type vehicle or minitruck
with a cutout, bypass, or similar device;
      (b)   Operate a utility-type vehicle or minitruck with an exhaust system
so modified; or
      (c)   Operate a utility-type vehicle or minitruck with the spark arrester
removed or modified except for use in closed-course competition events. (Ref.
60-6,359 RS Neb.)
   (7)   Utility-type vehicles or minitrucks may be operated without complying
with subsections (3), (4), (5) and (6) of this section on streets and highways
in parades which have been authorized by the State of Nebraska or any
department, board, commission, or political subdivision of the State. (Ref. 60-
6,356 RS Neb.)
   (8)   A utility-type or minitruck vehicle shall not be operated on any
controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked traffic lanes, and the
crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two (2) marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. Subsections (2) through (6) and (9) of this
section authorize and apply to operation of a utility-type vehicle or minitruck
only on a street or highway other than a controlled-access highway with more
than two (2) marked traffic lanes.
   (9)   Subject to subsection (8) of this section, the crossing of a street or
highway shall be permitted by a utility-type vehicle or minitruck without
complying with subsections (3) and (4) of this section only if:
      (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety (90)
degrees to the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      (b)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or highway;
      (c)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (d)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (e)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle or minitruck are on
when the crossing is made. (Ref. 60-6,356 RS Neb.)
   (10) If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of
any person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the
operator of each utility-type vehicle or minitruck involved in the accident
shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as provide in section 60-
699 RS Neb. (Ord. No. 787, 5/3/11)
Article 5. Parking
Section
   
5-501   Parking; Generally
   
5-502   Parking; Designation
   
5-503   Parking; Areas
   
5-504   Unloading; Freight Vehicles
   
5-505   Parking; Business District Unloading
   
5-506   Parking; Obstructing Traffic
   
5-507   Parking; Curbs, Painted
   
5-508   Parking; Repair
   
5-509   Parking; Current License
   
5-510   Parking; Inoperative Vehicles
   
5-511   Parking; Time Limit
   
5-511.01   Parking Prohibited
   
5-511.02   Parking; No Parking Prohibited
   
5-512   Parking; Maximum Time Limit
   
5-513   Parking; Snow Removal and Maintenance
   
5-514   Parking; Emergency Vehicles
   
5-515   Parking; Private Lots
   
5-516   Parking; Violations; Owner's Responsibility
   
5-517   Parking; Reserved for Handicapped
   
5-518   Parking; Violation
   
5-519   Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Designation of Onstreet
Parking Spaces and Access Aisles; Display of Permits
   
5-519.01 Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Designation of Offstreet
Parking Stalls, Spaces and Access Aisles
   
5-520   Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Definitions
   
5-521   Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Personal Permit; Issuance;
Renewal
   
5-522   Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Motor Vehicle Permit;
Issuance; Renewal
   
5-523   Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Permits; Prohibited Issuance;
Duplicate Permits
   
5-524   Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Permits; Period Valid;
Renewal of Temporary Permits
   
5-525   Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Permits Nontransferable;
Violations; Suspension
   
5-526   Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Removal of Unauthorized
Vehicle; Penalty
   
5-527   Parking; Handicapped or Disabled Persons; Citation, Issuance;
Complaint; Trial; Dismissal
§ 5-501 PARKING; GENERALLY.  
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb in such manner as to have
both right wheels within twelve (12") inches of the curb, except where the
Governing Body designates that vehicles shall be parked so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb. Where stalls are designated either on the curb or
pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls. (Ref. 60-6,167, 60-680
RS Neb.)
§ 5-502 PARKING; DESIGNATION.  
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb. (Ref. 60-6,167,
60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-503 PARKING; AREAS.  
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public
way, or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of
vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-504 UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles while loading or unloading freight may back to the curb, but shall
occupy as little of the street as possible. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-505 PARKING; BUSINESS DISTRICT UNLOADING.  
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall length of
more than twenty (20') feet to stop or park any such vehicle on a street which
the Governing Body has designated to be within the "business district," except
to load or unload, and then only when loading or unloading in an alley is
impossible. Vehicles may stop or stand for a period of time not to exceed
thirty (30) minutes. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck,
regardless of length, to park said vehicle within a street intersection, on a
crosswalk, in front of a private driveway, or on a sidewalk. The Governing Body
may, by resolution, provide truck parking areas adjoining, or adjacent to, the
business district, and when such parking areas are provided, it shall be the
duty of all truck operators to use such parking areas for all parking purposes.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-506 PARKING; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street,
intersection, or entrance to an alley or public or private drive. (Ref. 60-680
RS Neb.)
§ 5-507 PARKING; CURBS, PAINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent to cause the curb space
to be painted and keep the same painted as provided in this Article. No person,
firm, or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set
aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street, or part
thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by
the provisions of this Article. The marking or designating of portions of
streets or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall
be done only by the Municipality through its proper officers, at the direction
of the Governing Body. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-508 PARKING; REPAIR.
   No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the
motor of same, while standing on the public streets or alleys of this
Municipality, excepting in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same.
No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the
purpose of working on automobiles or vehicles of any description. (Ref. 60-680
RS Neb.)
§ 5-509 PARKING; CURRENT LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful to park, or place on the streets, alleys, or other
public property any motor vehicle without first securing a current license as
provided by law, and no such licensed motor vehicle shall be allowed to stand
for a longer period than twenty-four (24) hours. (Ref. 60-323 RS Neb.)
§ 5-510 PARKING; INOPERATIVE VEHICLES.  
   It shall be unlawful to park on any street, alley, or other public place
within the Municipality any vehicle that is not operative and in running
condition so that it may be moved under its own power.
§ 5-511 PARKING; TIME LIMIT.
   The Governing Body may, by resolution, entirely prohibit, or fix a time
limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any street, streets, or
district designated by such resolution, and the parking, or stopping, of any
vehicle in any such street, streets, or district, for a period of time longer
than fixed in such resolution shall constitute a violation of this Article.
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-511.01 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle upon the following
streets:
      (a)   On either side of Railroad Street from the intersection of Main
Street and Railroad Street to 150 feet south of said intersection.
      (b)   On either side of Main Street from the intersection of Main Street
and Railroad Street west to the intersection of Main Street and State Highway
50.
      (c)   On either side of Railroad Street from intersection of Main Street
and Railroad Street north to the intersection of Railroad Street and Cedar
Street.
      (d)   On either side of Platteview Road from the intersection of State
Highway 50 and Platteview Road to the east corporate limits of the City.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle upon the East side of
North 6th Street from Elm Street North to the north corporate limits of the
City.
   (3)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle upon the East side of
South 6th Street from Main Street to Mulberry Lane. (Ord. No. 490, 4/4/00)
(Amended by Ord. No. 932, 7/5/16)
§ 5-511.02 PARKING; NO PARKING OVERNIGHT.  
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle upon any street between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m., except the parking ban shall not apply to the
following streets:
   (A)   Main Street, between First Street and Second Street.
   (B)   Second Street, between Cedar Street and Locust Street.
   (C)   First Street, between Cedar Street and Locust Street.
(Ord. 1123, 10/18/22)
§ 5-512 PARKING; MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.  
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for over forty-eight (48)
consecutive hours is unlawful, except where a different maximum time limit is
posted. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-513 PARKING; SNOW REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE. 
   The Municipal Police may order any street or alley, or portion thereof,
vacated for weather emergencies or street maintenance. Notice shall be given by
personally notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such street
or alley. Any person parking a vehicle in violation of this section shall be
subject to the penalties provided in this Chapter, and such vehicle may be
removed and parked, under the supervision of the Municipal Police, in a
suitable nearby location without further notice to the owner or operator of
such vehicle. (Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.)
§ 5-514 PARKING; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.  
   The provisions of this Article regulating the movement, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined in this Article, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same
in an emergency in the necessary performance of public duties. (Ref. 39-753 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-515 PARKING; PRIVATE LOTS.  
   Any person parking a motor vehicle in a properly posted, restricted parking
lot without the consent of the owner or tenant authorized to give permission
shall be guilty of an infraction and the vehicle shall be subject to being
towed away at the request of such lot owner or tenant. Any person found guilty
under this section shall be subject to the penalties provided for infractions.
If the identity of the operator of a motor vehicle in violation of this section
cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name such vehicle is
registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such infraction. When any
law enforcement officer observes or is advised that a motor vehicle may be in
violation of this section, he or she shall make a determination as to whether a
violation has in fact occurred and if so shall personally serve or attach to
such motor vehicle a citation directed to the owner or operator of such
vehicle, which shall set forth the nature of the violation. Any person who
refuses to sign the citation or otherwise comply with the command of the
citation shall be punished as provided by section 29-426 RS Neb.
   Signs designating a restricted parking lot shall be readily visible and
shall state the purpose or purposes for parking on the restricted parking lot,
state the hours for restricted parking, and state who to contact for
information regarding a towed vehicle. (Ref. 60-2401, 60-2402 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 236, 4/5/83)
§ 5-516 PARKING; VIOLATIONS; OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found upon any street or alley or other area where parking
is regulated in accordance with Chapter 5, Article 5, section
5-511 or by any other section of this Code or in violation of any provision of
this Code regulating the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, the owner
or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be prima facie
responsible for such violation. (Ref. 60-6,165, 60-680 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 275,
12/4/84) (Amended by Ord. No. 344, 5/5/92)
§ 5-517 PARKING; RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 426, 6/17/97)
§ 5-518 PARKING; VIOLATION.  
   If any vehicle is found upon any street or alley or other area where parking
is regulated in accordance with Chapter 5, Article 5, section
5-511 or by any other section of this Code or in violation of any provision of
this Code regulating the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, the owner
or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be prima facie
responsible for such violation. (Ord. No. 344, 5/5/92)
§ 5-519 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; DESIGNATION OF ONSTREET
PARKING SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS. 
   (A)   The Governing Body may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to section 60-3,113 RS Neb.,
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state,
      (3)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the Municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in section 18-1739 RS Neb., and
      (4)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the Municipality, which
display the permit specified in section 18-1739 RS Neb.
All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit from the motor
vehicle's rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through the front
windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when there is
no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the Governing Body so designates a parking space or access aisle,
it shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in section 18-1737
RS Neb. In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be
indicated by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street
adjacent to the space or access aisle. (Ref. 18-1736 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 397, 2/
20/96) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 427, 6/17/97; 482, 4/7/99; 546, 4/2/02)
§ 5-519.01 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; DESIGNATION OF OFFSTREET
PARKING STALLS, SPACES AND ACCESS AISLES.
   The Municipality and any person in lawful possession of any offstreet
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in
such facility owned or operated by the Municipality or person for the exclusive
use of:
   (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to section
60-3,113 RS Neb.,
   (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped
or disabled persons, as certified by the Municipality, whose motor vehicles
display the permit specified in section 18-1739 RS Neb., and
   (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the Municipality, which
display such permit. Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and
immediately adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access
aisles, a sign which is in conformance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices adopted pursuant to section 60-6,118 and the federal Americans
With Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated in response to the act, as the act and the rules and regulations
existed on May 31, 2001. (Ref. 18-1737 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 428, 6/17/97)
(Amended by Ord. No. 547, 4/2/02)
§ 5-520 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this Article:
   (A)   ACCESS AISLE means a space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or
passenger loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the
federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the federal rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the act, as the act and
rules and regulations existed on May 31, 2001. (Ref. 18-1736 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON means any individual with a
severe visual or physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results
in an inability to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a
wheelchair, crutch, walker, or prosthetic, orthotic, or other assistant device,
any individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
      (2)   Temporarily handicapped or disabled person means any handicapped or
disabled person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such
manner for no longer than one year. (Ref. 18-1738 RS Neb.)
   (C)   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION means the violation of any section of
this Article regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons,
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use, or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits, or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990. (Ref. 18-1741.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 398, 2/20/96) (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 429, 6/17/97; 545, 4/2/02)
§ 5-521 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERSONAL PERMIT; ISSUANCE;
RENEWAL. 
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from a handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her
parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the
holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of
transporting such holder to park in those spaces or access aisles provided for
by this Article when the holder of the permit will enter or exit the motor
vehicle while it is parked in such spaces or access aisles. For purposes of
this section, the handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person shall be considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity, and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, a physician assistant, or an advanced practice
registered nurse practicing under and in accordance with his or her
certification act certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the
definition of handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or
disabled person. No applicant shall be required to provide his or her social
security number. In the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person,
the certifying physician, physician assistant, or advanced practice registered
nurse shall indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary
handicap or disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is
less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one (1) permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under section 5-522 (Motor
Vehicle Permit; Issuance), but not both. The Department of Motor Vehicles shall
provide applications and medical forms to the City Clerk. The application form
shall contain information listing the legal uses of the permit and that the
permit is not transferable, is to be used by the party to whom issued or for
the motor vehicle for which it is issued, is not to be altered or reproduced,
and is to be used only when a handicapped or disabled person or a temporarily
handicapped or disabled person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is
parked in a designated parking space or access aisle. The application form
shall provide space for the applicant to sign a statement that he or she is
aware of his or her rights, duties and responsibilities with regard to the use
and possession of a handicapped or disabled parking permit and the penalties
provided by law for handicapped parking infractions. The application form shall
also indicate that those convicted of handicapped parking infractions shall be
subject to suspension of the permit for six (6) months.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. Before a permit is issued, the Department shall enter all
information required in the manner prescribed by section 18-1739 RS Neb. The
Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles the name, address, and
license number of all persons applying for a permit pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the permit. The
existing permit shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit. Following the
receipt of the application and its processing, the Department of Motor Vehicles
shall deliver each individual renewed permit to the applicant in person or by
first-class United States mail, postage prepaid, as circumstances permit,
except that renewed permits shall not be issued sooner than ten (10) days prior
to the date of expiration. (Ref. 18-1738 RS Neb.)
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to the provisions of section 18-1738.02
RS Neb. (Ref. 18-1738.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 399, 2/20/96) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
430, 6/17/97; 548, 4/2/02)
§ 5-522 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT;
ISSUANCE; RENEWAL.    
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons to park in those spaces
or access aisles provided for by this Article if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and shall demonstrate to the
Municipal Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one (1) such permit shall be issued for each motor
vehicle. A person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under
section 5-521 (Personal Permit; Issuance), but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the permit. The
existing permit shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address, and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section. (Ref. 18-1738.01 RS Neb.)
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to section 18-1738.02 RS Neb. (Ref. 18-
1738.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 400, 2/20/96) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 431, 6/17/97;
549, 4/2/02)
§ 5-523 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMITS; PROHIBITED ISSUANCE;
DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to section
5-525 (Permits Nontransferable; Violations; Suspension). At the expiration of
such suspension, a permit may be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in
this Article.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the
same manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form
need not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the
most recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the
Municipal Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall
be valid for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was
issued. (Ref. 18-1739 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 401, 2/20/96) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
432, 6/17/97; 550, 4/2/02)
§ 5-524 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMITS; PERIOD VALID;
RENEWAL OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   Permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized by this Article issued prior to August 1, 2005, shall be valid for a
period ending on September 30 of the third year after the date of issuance and
shall expire on that date. Permanently issued permits issued on or after August
1, 2005, shall be valid for a period ending on the last day of the month of the
applicant's birthday in the third year after issuance and shall expire on that
day.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this Article for temporarily handicapped
or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more than six (6)
months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a period not
to exceed six (6) months. For the renewal period, there shall be submitted an
additional application with proof of a handicap or disability. (Ref. 18-1740 RS
Neb.)  (Ord. No. 402, 2/20/96) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 433, 6/17/97; 551, 4/2/02)
§ 5-525 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE;
VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits issued under this Article shall not be transferable and shall
be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which
issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall alter
or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this Article. No person
shall knowingly hold more than one (1) permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked, and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped parking
infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of six
(6) months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of this
Chapter. In addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) which may be waived by the court if, at the
time of sentencing, all handicapped parking permits issued to or in the
possession of the offender are returned to the court. At the expiration of such
six-month period, a suspended permit may be renewed in the manner provided for
renewal in this Article. (Ref. 18-1741 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 403, 2/20/96)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 434, 6/17/97; 552, 4/2/02)
§ 5-526 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED
VEHICLE; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an offstreet parking
facility, after notifying the municipal police, and the Municipality, if it
provides onstreet parking or owns, operates, or provides an offstreet parking
facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space, including access
aisles, designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, of any vehicle not displaying the proper permit or the
distinguishing license plates specified in this Article if there is posted
aboveground and immediately adjacent to and visible from such stall or space,
including access aisles, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area
so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any onstreet parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any offstreet parking facility, without properly displaying the proper
permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom, as the
case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or exit the
vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle shall be
guilty of a handicapped parking infraction as defined in section 18-17.41.01 RS
Neb. and shall be subject to the penalties and procedures set forth in section
5-527 (Citation, Issuance; Complaint; Trial; Dismissal). The display on a motor
vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or permit issued to a handicapped or
disabled person by and under the duly constituted authority of another state
shall constitute a full and complete defense in any action for a handicapped
parking infraction as defined in section 18-1741.01 RS Neb. If the identity of
the person who parked the vehicle in violation of this section cannot be
readily determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for such violation and shall be guilty
and subject to the penalties and procedures described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned offstreet parking facility, the
Municipality shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the Municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
Municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Ref. 18-1737 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 404, 2/20/96) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 436, 6/17/
97; 553, 4/2/02)
§ 5-527 PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; CITATION, ISSUANCE;
COMPLAINT; TRIAL; DISMISSAL.
   (1)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the Governing Body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (2)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged, and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three (3) days after the issuance of
the handicapped parking citation. One (1) copy of the handicapped parking
citation shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending
motor vehicle.
   (3)   At least twenty-four (24) hours before the time set for the appearance
of the cited person, either the Municipal Attorney or other person authorized
by law to issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a
complaint charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such
person shall be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (4)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
   (5)   For any handicapped parking citation issued for a handicapped parking
infraction by reason of the failure of a vehicle to display a handicapped
parking permit issued pursuant to section 18-738 or 18-1738.01 RS Neb., the
complaint shall be dismissed if, within seven (7) business days after the date
of issuance of the citation, the person cited files with the court the
affidavit included on the citation, signed by a peace officer certifying that
the recipient is the lawful possessor in his or her own right of a handicapped
parking permit issued under section 18-1738 or 18-1738.01 RS Neb. and that the
peace officer has personally viewed the permit. (Ref. 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04,
18-1741.06 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 435, 6/17/97)
Article 6. Towing
[Editor's Note: Article 6 was adopted in its entirety by Ordinance No. 262,
passed July 3, 1984]
Section
   
5-601   Towing; Declaration of Obstruction; Nuisance
   
5-602   Towing; Summary Removal Authorized
   
5-603   Towing; Complaint, Notice Issued
   
5-604   Towing; Towing-in Authorized
   
5-605   Towing; Payment of Costs
   
5-606   Towing; Records, Report
   
5-607   Towing; Payment of Fees under Protest, Procedure
§ 5-601 TOWING; DECLARATION OF OBSTRUCTION; NUISANCE.
   The parking of a vehicle in violation of any applicable provision of this
Code, state law or City ordinance, rule or regulation is hereby declared to
constitute an obstruction of the streets, a misdemeanor and a public nuisance.
§ 5-602 TOWING; SUMMARY REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.  
   The City Clerk is hereby empowered to determine if a vehicle parked in
violation of an application provision of this Code, state law or City
ordinance, rule or regulation is endangering the public health and/or safety.
If such vehicle is found to endanger the public health and/or safety, or if
such vehicle is found to have overdue tickets or warrants pending, the City
Clerk shall order such vehicle removed as provided in this division.
§ 5-603 TOWING; COMPLAINT, NOTICE ISSUED.
   If any vehicle found in violation of any applicable provision of this Code,
state law or City ordinance, rule or regulation is not found to be endangering
the public health and/or safety, or not to have overdue tickets or warrants
pending, the City Clerk shall mail by first class United States mail to the
last known mailing address of the last known registered owner of said vehicle
notice of a nuisance and misdemeanor, and order of abatement. Such complaint
and notice shall order the abatement of such nuisance within the time stated
therein.
   The person in possession of, or the owner of, a vehicle coming under the
provisions of this division shall, within the time provided in the complaint
and notice, abate such nuisance.
   Each separate period of time that a vehicle is found to be in violation of
any applicable provision of this Code, State law or City ordinance, rule or
regulation shall constitute a separate and distinct nuisance and misdemeanor,
and a separate and distinct complaint and notice shall be mailed to the owner
of said vehicle for each such period of time.
§ 5-604 TOWING; TOWING-IN AUTHORIZED.
   Whenever any vehicle is found coming under the provisions of this division,
the same shall be removed by the City Clerk or others acting under his
supervision and directions, to a garage or lot designated by the City Council
for such purpose.
§ 5-605 TOWING; PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   A vehicle towed into a garage or lot under the provisions of this division
shall not be released therefrom except upon payment by the owner to the person
in charge of such garage or lot the cost of towing, daily storage, and any
other administrative costs incurred by the City. A receipt for such fee shall
be issued to the owner of such vehicle.
§ 5-606 TOWING; RECORDS, REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of the person in charge of the garage or lot to which a
vehicle is towed under the provisions of this division to keep a record of the
names of the owners of all vehicles received by him together with the
registration number of each vehicle, the nature and circumstances of each
violation, and the amount of fees collected under the provisions of this
division. Such person shall deliver a report of each day's transactions to the
Chief of Police not later than one day following the day for which the report
is made.
§ 5-607 TOWING; PAYMENT OF FEES UNDER PROTEST, PROCEDURE.  
   When an owner of any towed-in vehicle protests to the person in charge of
the garage or lot against the payment of the fees, provided for by this
division, the person in charge shall, upon payment of the fees, issue a receipt
therefor marked "Paid Under Protest." Thereupon it shall be the duty of the
owner or operator of the garage or lot to safely keep such fees and report such
fact to the City Clerk, who shall forthwith cause a complaint to be filed
against the owner of such vehicle charging him with causing or contributing to
the creation of, or maintenance of, a public nuisance. If, upon trial thereof,
such person shall be found not guilty of this offense, it shall be the duty of
the operator or owner of the garage or lot to refund to the said person the
fees so paid by him under protest.
Article 7. Traffic Violations Bureau
[Editor's Note: Article 7 was adopted in its entirety by Ordinance No. 389,
passed October 7, 1986]
Section
   
5-701   Traffic Violations Bureau; Establishment
   
5-702   Traffic Violations Bureau; Duties, Collection and Accounting
   
5-703   Traffic Violations Bureau; Waiver of Appearance, Guilty Plea; When
Acceptable
   
5-704   Traffic Violations Bureau; Notice of Violation
   
5-705   Traffic Violations Bureau; Days, Hours of Traffic Violation Bureau
   
5-706   Traffic Violations Bureau; Issuance of Warrant and Complaint
   
5-707   Traffic Violations Bureau; Administrative Fee, Definition
§ 5-701 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; ESTABLISHMENT.  
   For the purposes hereinafter provided, there is hereby established a Traffic
Violations Bureau which shall function as a part of the office of the Mayor,
under the direction of the City Clerk.
§ 5-702 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; DUTIES, COLLECTION AND ACCOUNTING.  
   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall collect and account for all moneys paid
in accordance with the provisions of this Article, issue receipts therefor, and
keep records of all payments, showing the names, time and date of payment. It
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to credit to the City such amounts as shall
be collected for the payment of administrative costs.
§ 5-703 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; WAIVER OF APPEARANCE, GUILTY PLEA; WHEN
ACCEPTABLE.  
   Whenever any person is alleged to have violated any of the provisions of
sections
5-101 through and including
5-514 he or she may under such conditions as are herein prescribed, appear at
the Traffic Violations Bureau, execute a waiver of appearance, enter a plea of
guilty, and make payment of an administrative fee and penalty. The schedule of
penalties and administrative fees shall be as follows:
   First parking offense         Warning Ticket
   Second parking offense
    (within 12 month period)            $10.00
   Third or more parking offense   
    (within 12 month period)            $20.00
(Amended by Ord. No. 350, 4/20/93)
§ 5-704 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.  
   Within ten days after the time of the commission of an alleged violation
coming under the provisions of this Article, the accused shall be served with a
printed notice requiring them to make such appearance on or before the date
specified thereof, and it shall apprise them:
   (a)   That they must appear at the Traffic Violations Bureau during the
hours shown on the notice;
   (b)   Of the violation or violations charged as defined by the ordinance;
   (c)   Of the form of waiver which they shall be required to execute and
present to the traffic violations bureau in order to avail themself of the
benefits provided by this Article.
§ 5-705 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; DAYS, HOURS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATION BUREAU.  
   The City Clerk shall fix the days and the hours during which the office of
the Traffic Violations Bureau shall be open to the public for the transaction
of business coming under the provisions of this Article.
§ 5-706 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; ISSUANCE OF WARRANT AND COMPLAINT.  
   Whenever any person refuses, neglects or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this Article, a complaint charging a violation under section 5-
101 through 5-514 will be filed with the County Court.
§ 5-707 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU; ADMINISTRATIVE FEE, DEFINITION.
   For each violation ticket paid to the Traffic Violations Bureau, an
administrative fee as established in section
5-703 shall be deducted from the payment of the fine and shall be deposited in
the general fund of the City.
   The administrative fee shall be deemed to be the amount of the fine and
represents the cost to the City for the operation of the Traffic Violations
Bureau including the wages and fringe benefits of operating personnel,
operating expenses; the cost of printing tickets and forms; postage; office
supplies; office equipment, including maintenance and repair, necessary
overhead, including heating and air conditioning, lights, rents, maintenance,
telephone expense, and data processing expenses. (Amended by Ord. No. 350, 4/
20/93)
Article 8. Penal Provision
Section
   
5-801   Violations; Penalty
§ 5-801 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person, or any person's agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
CHAPTER 6: POLICE REGULATIONS
Article
      
Article 1. Animals
      
Article 2. [Reserved]
      
Article 3. Miscellaneous Misdemeanors
      
A
rticle 4. Sex Offender Residency Restrictions
      
A
rticle 5. Penal Provisions
Article 1. Animals
Section
   
6-101   Animals; Definitions
   
6-102   Animals; Contracting for Animal Control Services
   
6-103   Animals; Animal Shelter
   
6-104   Animals; Interference with Police
   
6-105   Animals; Impounding
   
6-106   Animals; Dogs and Cats; License
   
6-107   Animals; Dogs and Cats; License Tags
   
6-108   Animals; Dogs and Cats; Wrongful Licensing
   
6-109   Animals; Dogs and Cats; Unlicensed
   
6-110   Animals; Dogs and Cats; Removal of Tags
   
6-111   Animals; Dog Guides, Hearing Aid Dogs, and Service Dogs: Exempt from
License Tax
   
6-112   Animals; Vaccination Required
   
6-113   Animals; Dogs and Cats; Revaccination Required
   
6-114   Animals; Maximum Number Allowed
   
6-114.01 Animals; Fowl; Maximum Number Allowed
   
6-114.02   Animals; Unusual Animals and Livestock Animals Prohibited;
Exceptions
   
6-115   Animals; Abandonment, Neglect, and Mistreatment
   
6-116   Animals; Abandonment, Neglect, and Cruelty; Law Enforcement Officer;
Powers; Immunity
   
6-117   Animals; Rabies Suspected
   
6-118   Animals; Running at Large
   
6-119   Animals; Enclosures
   
6-120   Animals; Pitting; Prohibited
   
6-121   Animals; Pitting; Spectators Prohibited
   
6-122   Animals; Proclamation
   
6-123   Animals; Capture Impossible
   
6-124   Animals; Vicious
   
6-125   Animals; Dangerous; Restrained
   
6-126   Animals; Dangerous; Confined
   
6-127   Animals; Dangerous; Failure to Comply
   
6-128   Animals; Dangerous; Additional Regulations
   
6-129   Animals; Destruction of Property; Owner Liability
   
6-130   Animals; Owner Liability
   
6-131   Animals; Equine; Bovine; Prohibited Acts
   
6-132   Animals; Public Nuisances
   
6-133   Animals; Seizure and Confinement
   
6-134   Animals; Potentially Dangerous Animal; Determination; Rights of Animal
Control Office
   
6-135   Animals; Reckless Owner
   
6-136   Animals; Dangerous or Potentially Dangerous Animals; Spaying or
Neutering; Microchip Identification and License Required
   
6-137   Animals; Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Animals; Proof of
Insurance
   
6-138   Animals; Dangerous or Potentially Dangerous Animals; Classes Required
   
6-139   Animals; Dangerous or Potentially Dangerous Animals; Leash, Muzzle and
Harness Required
   
6-140   Animals; Dangerous Animals; Confined
   
6-141 Animals; Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Animals; Impoundment
   
6-142   Animals; Dangerous Animals at Large; Destruction
   
6-143   Animals; Dangerous Animals; Failure to Comply
   
6-144   Animals; Impoundment of Certain Animals During Enforcement Proceedings
   
6-145   Pot-bellied Pigs; Number and Size Restrictions
   
6-146   Pot-bellied Pigs; Spaying: Neutering
   
6-147   Pot-bellied Pigs; Running at Large
   
6-148   Pot-bellied Pigs; Restraint
   
6-149   Pot-bellied Pigs; Damaging Property of Others
   
6-150   Pot-bellied Pigs; Disturbance of the Peace
   
6-151   Pot-bellied Pigs; Applicability of Sections 6-145 Through 6-167
   
6-152   Pot-bellied Pigs; Exceptions
   
6-153   Pot-bellied Pigs; License Required
   
6-154   Pot-bellied Pigs; Application
   
6-155   Pot-bellied Pigs; Date for Obtaining License
   
6-156   Pot-bellied Pigs; Fees Generally
   
6-157   Pot-bellied Pigs; Late Charge
   
6-158   Pot-bellied Pigs; Issuance; Tag
   
6-159   Pot-bellied Pigs; Separate License and Tag Required for Each-Pot-
Bellied Pig
   
6-160   Pot-bellied Pigs; Wearing of Collar and Tag or Other Identification
   
6-161 Pot-bellied Pigs; Records
   
6-162   Pot-bellied Pigs; Expiration
   
6-163   Pot-bellied Pigs; Misuse of Tag
   
6-164   Pot-bellied Pigs; Removal of Tag
   
6-165   Pot-bellied Pigs; Vaccination Required
   
6-166   Pot-bellied Pigs; Blood Tests Required
   
6-167   Pot-bellied Pigs; Certificate of Vaccination and Blood Testing
§ 6-101 ANIMALS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Article the following terms or phrases shall have
the following meanings:
   ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or custodian,
for any length of time without making effective provision for its food, water,
or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not include
an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this section.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of the City, and includes any local law enforcement agency or other agency
designated by the City to enforce the animal control laws of the City.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual designated, employed, appointed, or
authorized by an Animal Control Authority for the purpose of aiding in the
enforcement of this Chapter or of any other law or ordinance relating to the
licensing of animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals
and also shall include any state or local law enforcement officer as well as
any other state or local employee whose duties in whole or in part include
assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any animal.
   BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
   BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
   COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dangerous
animal, except as otherwise provided in this Chapter. For the purposes of this
Chapter, a DANGEROUS ANIMAL is any animal that, according to the records of the
Animal Control Authority:
         (a)   Has killed a human being;
         (b)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
         (c)   Has killed or inflicted serious injury on a domestic animal
without provocation;
         (d)   Ferociously and without provocation has attacked, snapped at, or
bitten one or more human beings, or one or more other domestic animals, one or
more times, or has a history of any of such behaviors;
         (e)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
animal by the Animal Control Authority of the City, the owner of which has
received notice from the Animal Control Authority of the City of such
determination, and that inflicts an injury on a human being that does not
require medial treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of
humans or domestic animals.
         (f)   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
animal fighting; or
         (g)   By training, disposition, or behavior poses a potential risk of
attacking and inflicting injury without provocation upon human beings or other
domestic animals.
      (2)   No animal may be declared to be a dangerous animal:
         (a)   If it inflicts injury or damage upon a human being committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon premises occupied by the owner of the
animal or upon a human being committing or attempting to commit a crime;
         (b)   For taking action to defend or protect a human being within the
immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or assault;
         (c)   If the individual was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the
animal at the time of the injury or has, in the past, been observed or reported
to have tormented, abused or assaulted the animal
         (d)   If the injury, damage, or threat was sustained by an individual
who, at the time, was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal, or has, in
the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused or assaulted the
animal.
      (3)   No animal used in lawful activities of law enforcement officials
shall be declared to be a dangerous animal.
   DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog or cat or livestock. Livestock includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuse,
wildlife area or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
   FOWL. Common domesticated gallinaceous birds including, but not limited to
ducks, geese, chickens and pigeons.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any county
or deputy sheriff, any member of
the police force of the city or any city or village, or any other public
official authorized by the city or any other city or village to enforce state
or local animal control laws, rules, regulations, or ordinances.
   LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds or poultry.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other licensed
health care professional that results in one (1) or more sutures, surgery, or
treatment for one (1) or more broken bones.
   OWN (unless otherwise specified). To possess, keep, harbor, or have control
of, charge of, or custody of a domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not
apply to domestic or hybrid animals owned by other persons which are
temporarily maintained on the premises of a veterinarian or kennel operator for
a period of not more than thirty (30) days.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision,
or department possessing , harboring, keeping, or having control or custody of
any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting a domestic animal to habitually be
or remain on or be lodged or fed within such person’s house, yard or premises.
This term shall not apply to veterinarians or kennel operators temporarily
maintaining on their premises domestic animals owned by other persons for a
period of not more than thirty (30) days.
   PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   (a)   Any animal that, when unprovoked, inflicts an injury on a
human being that does not require medical treatment, either on public or
private property;
         (b)   Any animal that, when unprovoked, injures a domestic animal,
either on public or private property;
         (c)   Any animal that, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person
who is upon a street, sidewalk, or any other public ground or public area, in a
menacing or threatening fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
         (d)   Any specific animal with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, or to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of human beings or domestic animals.
      (2)   No animal may be declared to be a potentially dangerous animal:
         (a)   If it inflicts injury or damage upon a human being committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon premises occupied by the owner of the
animal or upon a human being committing or attempting to commit a crime;
         (b)   For taking action to defend or protect a human being within the
immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or assault.
      (3)   No animal used in lawful activities of law enforcement officials
shall be declared to be a potentially dangerous animal.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any domestic animal found off the premises of the owner,
and not under control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash,
cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other suitable means of physical restraint.
   SERIOUS INJURY ON A DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An injury to a domestic animal that
requires treatment administered by a veterinarian, veterinary clinic,
veterinary hospital, or veterinary office, that results in one (1) or more
sutures, surgery, or treatment for one (1) or more broken bones.
   UNUSUAL ANIMAL. Any poisonous or potentially dangerous animal not normally
considered domesticated and shall include animals prohibited by the City of
Springfield or by federal requirements, and also:
      (1)   Class Mammalia; order Carnivora, family Felidae (such as lions,
tigers, jaguars, leopards, bobcats and cougars), except commonly accepted
domestic cats and hybrids involving the same; family Canidae (such as wolves,
coyotes, and fox); family Mustelidae (such as weasels, martins, fishers,
skunks, wolverines, mink and badgers); family Procyonidae (such as raccoons);
family Ursidae (such as bears); order Primata (such as monkeys and
chimpanzees); and order Chiroptera (such as bats).
      (2)   Poisonous reptiles, cobras, and their allies (Elapidae,
Hydrophiidae); vipers and their allies (Croctiladae, Viperidae); boonslangs and
Kirkland’s tree snakes; and Gila monsters (Heleodermatidae).
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a rabies vaccine as approved by the rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated by the Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and
Licensure.
(Ref. 65-617, 28-2008, 71-4401 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 318, 3/13/90) (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 336, 1/8/91; 337. 1/8/91; 642, 6/1/04; 697, 1/3/06; 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-102 ANIMALS; CONTRACTING FOR ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICES.
   (1)   The Mayor and City Council, in lieu of utilizing City employees, may
contract with humane societies or others for the performance of all or a part
of the services required to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   During such time as such services are under contract, then to the
extent said services are contracted:
      (a)   The Humane Society or other contractor shall generally perform the
duties prescribed by ordinance to be performed by the Animal Control Officer.
      (b)   The Humane Society or other contractor shall be authorized to issue
animal licenses, collect license fees, maintain licensing records and to
perform such other duties as are prescribed by ordinance to be performed by the
City Clerk in connection with the control of animals and the licensing thereof.
      (c)   The Mayor and City Council may by resolution deputize the employees
of such Humane Society or other contractor for the limited purpose of issuing
complaints and citations for the violation of this chapter. However, such
deputization shall not include the authority to make arrests of persons for
such violations, and any such arrests shall be made by regular law enforcement
officers. (Ord. No. 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-103 ANIMALS; ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The facility designated by the City to serve as the City’s Animal Shelter
shall be safe, suitable, and conveniently located for the impounding, keeping,
and destruction of animals. The said Shelter shall be sanitary, ventilated, and
lighted. (Ref. 17-548 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-104 ANIMALS; INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
Municipal Policeman, the Animal Control Officer, or authorized designee, who is
performing any duty enjoined upon him by the provisions of this Article, or to
break open, or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the
breaking open of the Animal Shelter, any ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used
for the collecting or conveying of animals to the Shelter. (Ref. 28-906 RS
Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-105 ANIMALS; IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police, Animal Control Officer, or his
designee, to capture, secure, and remove in a humane manner to a shelter
arranged for by the Municipality any animal violating any of the provisions of
this Article. The animals so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and
shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day.
Each impounded animal shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a period of
not less than five (5) days. Notice of impoundment of all animals shall be made
to the owner if the owner is known. Any animal may be reclaimed by its owner
during the period of impoundment by payment to the City Clerk or the impounding
authority, the actual costs associated with the impoundment as determined by
the impound facility. The owner shall then be required to comply with the
licensing and rabies vaccination requirements within seventy-two (72) hours
after release. If the animal is not claimed at the end of five (5) days, the
approved Animal Control Authority may dispose of the animal in accordance with
the applicable rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if,
in the judgment of the approved Animal Control Authority, a suitable home can
be found for any such animal, the said animal shall be turned over to that
person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and meet all
licensing and vaccinating requirements provided for in this Article. The
Municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed animal impounded in
the Animal Shelter for a period longer than five (5) days. All animals shall be
destroyed and buried in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the
Board of Health unless a suitable home can be found for such animal. (Ref. 17-
548, 71-4408 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 191, 4/4/78; 237, 4/5/83; 351, 4/
20/93; 537, 2/19/02; 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-106 ANIMALS; DOGS AND CATS; LICENSE.
   (1)   Any person who shall own, keep, or harbor a dog or cat over the age of
six (6) months within the Municipality shall within ten (10) days after
acquisition of the said dog or cat acquire a license for each such dog or cat
annually by or before January 1 of each year. The said license fee shall be
delinquent from and after March 15; provided, the possessor of any dog or cat
brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to January 1 of
any year, shall be liable for the payment of the dog and cat license fee. Fees
for licenses after the delinquent date shall be double the normal fee; however,
the Animal Control Authority may waive said fee at their discretion. It shall
be unlawful to own or harbor any dog or cat without acquiring and maintaining a
license as prescribed by this section. Licenses shall be issued by the Animal
Control Authority, or authorized designee, upon the payment of a license fee.
Said license shall not be transferable and no refund will be allowed in case of
death, sale, or other disposition of the licensed dog or cat. The owner shall
state at the time the application is made and upon printed forms provided for
such purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex
of each dog or cat owned and kept by him or her. Proof of sterilization and
current rabies vaccination for the ensuing year of the license must accompany
all license applications. The Animal Control Authority may charge a handling/
issuance fee for each license not to exceed the amount specified by the most
recent Springfield fee ordinance.
   (2)   License fees and delinquent fees shall be approved and adopted by
resolution or ordinance. (Ref. 54-603, 71-4412 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
191, 4/4/78; 351, 4/20/93; 506, 1/2/01; 642, 6/1/04; 667, 11/2/04; 841, 9/17/
13)
§ 6-107 ANIMALS; DOGS AND CATS; LICENSE TAGS.
   Upon payment of the required license fee, the Animal Control Authority, or
authorized designee, shall issue a numbered receipt and tag as necessary to the
owner of the dog or cat licensed. Tags shall be issued annually or at another
interval determined by the Animal Control Authority. The Animal Control
Authority may recognize a microchip identification number as the license number
and the microchip shall substitute for the physical tag. Physical tags shall be
properly attached to the collar or harness of all dogs and cats so licensed and
shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said dog or cat until December 31
following such licensing. It shall be unlawful to own or harbor any dog or cat
that does not have a license properly attached to the animal as prescribed by
this section. All license fees and collections shall be immediately credited to
the General Fund except in such cases where the Animal Control Authority is the
licensing authority, fund disposition shall be in compliance with the Animal
Control Authority contract. (Ref. 17-526, 54-603 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/04; 667, 11/2/04; 841, 9/17/13)
§ 6-108 ANIMALS; DOGS AND CATS; WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any dog or cat to
permit or allow such dog or cat to wear any license, metallic tag or other
Municipal identification than that issued by the Municipal Clerk, the Animal
Control Authority, or authorized designee, for dogs or cats, nor shall the
owner, keeper, or harborer wrongfully and knowingly license an unaltered dog or
cat with a license prescribed for an altered dog or cat. (Ref. 17-526, 54-603
RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-109 ANIMALS; DOGS AND CATS; UNLICENSED.
   It shall be unlawful to own or harbor any dog or cat without acquiring and
maintaining a license that is properly secured to the animal. (Ref. 17-526, 71-
4408 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/04; 667; 11/2/04)
§ 6-110 ANIMALS; DOGS AND CATS; REMOVAL OF TAGS.
     It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, keeper, or possessor thereof. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.) 
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-111 ANIMALS; DOG GUIDES, HEARING AID DOGS, AND SERVICE DOGS: EXEMPT FROM
LICENSE TAX.
   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by the Municipal Code,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax. (Ref. 54-603 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 459, 8/4/
98) (Amended by Ord. No. 642, 6/1/04) 
§ 6-112 ANIMALS; VACCINATION REQUIRED.  
   (A)   Every animal required to be licensed by this Chapter shall be
vaccinated against rabies within thirty (30) days after they have reached three
(3) months of age, one (1) year after initial vaccination, and thereafter
triennially, according to vaccine manufacturers’ guidelines. Unvaccinated
animals acquired or moved into the state must be vaccinated within thirty (30)
days after purchase or arrival, unless under three months of age as specified
above.
   (B)   An animal is currently vaccinated if the initial rabies vaccine was
administered at least twenty-eight (28) days previously or booster vaccinations
have been administered in accordance with the manufacturers’ guidelines.
Regardless of the age of the animal at initial vaccination, a booster
vaccination shall be administered one (1) year later. If a previously
vaccinated animal is overdue for a booster, it shall be revaccinated.
   (C)   An owner or keeper of any animal required to be licensed by this
Chapter to be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian is exempt from the
requirements of this section if a medical reason exists that precludes the
vaccination of the animal. To qualify for this exemption, the owner or keeper
must have a written statement signed by a licensed veterinarian that includes a
description of the animal and the medical reason that precludes vaccination.
(Ord. No. 642, 6/1/04) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 667, 11/2/04; 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-113 ANIMALS; DOGS AND CATS; REVACCINATION REQUIRED.   
   Every dog or cat shall be revaccinated following a period of not more than
thirty-six (36) months since its last vaccination with chick embryo, LEP (low
egg passage), flurry vaccine or with killed or inactivated vaccine. The
intervals of any other anti-rabies vaccine shall be set by the state
veterinarian, and he shall follow the latest recommendations of the United
State Public Health Service. (Ord. No. 642, 6/1/04) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 667,
11/2/04; 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-114 ANIMALS; MAXIMUM NUMBER ALLOWED.   
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor at any time more
than three (3) adult dogs or three (3) adult cats per residential or dwelling
unit in the City. The total number of adult dogs or adult cats per residential
dwelling unit in the City shall not exceed four (4) adult animals. For the
purpose of this section, an adult dog or cat is a dog or cat that is more than
four (4) months old. Provisions of this section shall not apply to catteries,
kennels, and pet stores which have been licensed pursuant to City and State
regulations.
(Ord. No. 642, 6/1/04) (Amended by Ord. No. 1105, 9/6/22)
§ 6-114.01 ANIMALS; FOWL; MAXIMUM NUMBER ALLOWED.   
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor at any time more
than six (6) adult fowl per residential or dwelling unit in the City. For the
purpose of this section, an adult fowl is a fowl that is more than four (4)
months old. (Ord. No. 697, 1/3/06)
§ 6-114.02 ANIMALS; UNUSUAL ANIMALS AND LIVESTOCK ANIMALS PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, or have under his or its
care, custody, or control any unusual animal or livestock animal within the
corporate limits of the City, except as provided in this section and Article.
It shall be unlawful for any pet shop to sell, give, transfer, import into the
corporate limits any unusual animal or livestock animal. This section shall not
be construed to prohibit:
   (A)   Public owned and operated zoo, traveling circus, Humane Society,
county fair, sanctioned rodeo, or other public owned and operated exhibition or
carnival from displaying unusual animals or livestock animals as exhibits;
   (B)   Primary or secondary schools, colleges or universities from using
unusual animals or livestock animals for research or teaching;
   (C)   Wildlife rescue organizations with appropriate permits from the
Nebraska Game and Parks Commission from rehabilitation or sheltering unusual
animals;
   (D)   Individuals authorized by the State of Nebraska from sheltering
animals belonging to a public owned and operated zoo that require
rehabilitation;
   (E)   Veterinary clinics and animal hospitals from providing medical
treatment to unusual animals or livestock animals; or
   (F)   Facilities offering temporary holding of livestock animals for
slaughter and sale barns. (Ord. No. 828, 10/16/12) (Amended by Ord. No. 908,
11/17/15)
§ 6-115 ANIMALS; ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the Nebraska State Patrol, any
county or deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the city or any
other city or village, or any other public official authorized by the city or
any other city or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules,
regulations, or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special
investigator appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to
section 81-201 RS Neb. while acting within the authority of the Director of
Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goats, domesticated
cervine animals, ratite birds, or poultry.
      OWNER OR CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties. (Ref. 28-1008 RS
Neb.)
   (B)   Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in sections 29-422 to 29-429 RS Neb.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence. (Ref. 28-1012 RS Neb.)
   (C)   Violation.
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties. (Ref. 28-1009 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 337, 1/8/91) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 642, 6/1/04; 667, 11/2/04; 915, 5/
17/16; 1132, 6/6/23)
§ 6-116 ANIMALS; ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND CRUELTY; LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER;
POWERS; IMMUNITY.
   Repealed by Ord. No. 915. See §
6-115.  
§ 6-117 ANIMALS; RABIES SUSPECTED.
   (1)   (a)   Any animal which is owned by a person and has bitten any person
or caused an abrasion of the skin of any person shall be seized by the rabies
control authority for a period of not less than ten (10) days if:
         1.   The animal is suspected of having rabies, regardless of the
species and whether or not the animal has been vaccinated;
         2.   The animal is not vaccinated and is a dog, cat, or another animal
of a species determined by the department to be a rabid species; or
         3.   The animal is of a species which has been determined by the
department to be a rabid species not amenable to rabies protection by
immunization, whether or not the animal has been vaccinated.
      (b)   If, after observation and examination by a veterinarian, at the end
of the ten (10)-day period the animal shows no clinical signs of rabies, the
animal may be released to its owner.
   (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this section, whenever
any person has been bitten or has an abrasion of the skin caused by an animal
owned by another person, which animal has been vaccinated in accordance with
state law, or if such an injury to a person is caused by an owned dog, cat, or
other animal determined by the department to be a rabid species amenable to
rabies protection by immunization which has been vaccinated, the animal shall
be confined by the owner or other responsible person as required by the rabies
control authority for a period of at least ten (10) days and shall be observed
and examined by a veterinarian at the end of the ten (10)-day period. If no
clinical signs of rabies are found by the veterinarian, the animal may be
released from confinement.
      (b)   A vaccinated animal owned by a law enforcement or governmental
military agency which bites or causes an abrasion of the skin of any person
during training or the performance of the animal’s duties may be confined as
provided in division (2)(a) of this section. The agency shall maintain
ownership of and shall control and supervise the actions of the animal for a
period of fifteen (15) days following the injury. If during such period the
death of the animal occurs for any reason, a veterinarian shall within twenty-
four (24) hours of the death examine the tissues of the animal for clinical
signs of rabies.
   (3)   Any dog, cat, or other animal of a rabid species which has bitten a
person or caused an abrasion of the skin of a person and which is unowned or
the ownership of which cannot be determined within seventy-two (72) hours of
the time of the bite or abrasion shall be immediately subject to any tests
which the department believes are necessary to determine whether the animal is
afflicted with rabies. The seventy-two (72)-hour period shall include holidays
and weekends and shall not be extended for any reason. The tests required by
this subsection may include tests which require the animal to be destroyed.
(Ref. 71-4406 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-118 ANIMALS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police, the Animal Control Officer, or
authorized designee, to cause any domestic animal found to be running at large
within the Municipality to be taken up and impounded. It shall be unlawful for
the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or any person having the charge,
custody, or control thereof, to permit a dog, cat, horse, mule, cow, sheep,
goat, swine, or other domestic animal to be driven or run at large on any of
the public ways and property, or upon the property of another. It shall be
unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese, or other
fowls to run at large within the corporate limits, except in enclosed places on
private property. (Ref. 17-547, 17-526 RS Neb) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 642, 6/1/
04; 667, 11/2/04)
§ 6-119 ANIMALS; ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement or domestic animals and fowls not specifically barred within the
corporate limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to
become a menace or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the said enclosure is
located. (Amended by Ord. No. 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-120 ANIMALS; PITTING; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall knowingly:
         (a)   Promote, engage in, or be employed at dogfighting, cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another;
         (b)   Receive money for the admission of another person to a place
kept for such purpose;
         (c)   Own, use, train, sell, or possess an animal for such purpose; or
         (d)   Permit any act as described in this division (A)(1) to occur on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness
as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an
animal against another as prohibited in division (A)(1) of this section. (Ref.
28-1005 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally own or possess animal
fighting paraphernalia with the intent to commit a violation of this section.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this section, except as provided in
subdivision (B)(2)(b) of this subsection, ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA means
equipment, products, and materials of any kind that are used, intended for use,
or designed for use in the training, preparation, conditioning, or furtherance
of the pitting of an animal against another as defined in §
6-101. ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
            1.   A breaking stick, which means a device designed for insertion
behind the molars of a dog for the purpose of breaking the dog’s grip on
another animal or object;
            2.   A cat mill, which means a device that rotates around a central
support with one arm designed to secure a dog and one arm designed to secure a
cat, rabbit, or other small animal beyond the grasp of the dog;
            3.   A treadmill, which means an exercise device consisting of an
endless belt on which the animal walks or runs without changing place;
            4.   A fighting pit, which means a walled area designed to contain
an animal fight;
            5.   A springpole, which means a biting surface attached to a
stretchable device, suspended at a height sufficient to prevent a dog from
reaching the biting surface while touching the ground;
            6.   A heel, which means any edged or pointed instrument designed
to be attached to the leg of a fowl;
            7.   A boxing glove or muff, which means a fitted protective
covering for the spurs of a fowl; and
            8.   Any other instrument commonly used in the furtherance of
pitting an animal against another.
         (b)   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA does not include equipment,
products, or materials of any kind used by a veterinarian licensed to practice
veterinary medicine and surgery in this state.
      (3)   Any person violating division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor.  (Ref. 28-1005.04 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 336, 1/8/91) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 642, 6/1/04; 667, 11/2/04)
§ 6-121 ANIMALS; PITTING; SPECTATORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly and willingly be present at and witness as a
spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting, or the pitting of an animal
against another as prohibited in this Article. (Ref. 28-1005 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
336, 1/8/91) (Amended by Ord. No. 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-122 ANIMALS; PROCLAMATION.   
   It shall be the duty of the Governing Body whenever in its opinion the
danger to the public safety from rabid animals is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any animal to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than thirty (30)
days or more than ninety (90) days from the date of such proclamation, or until
such danger is passed. The animals may be harbored by any good and sufficient
means in a house, garage, or yard on the premise wherein the said owner may
reside. Upon issuing the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping, or harboring any animal to confine the same as herein
provided. (Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/
04)
§ 6-123 ANIMALS; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The Municipal Police, the Animal Control Authority, or authorized designee,
shall have the authority to kill any animals showing vicious tendencies, or
characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible because of the danger
involved. (Ref. 54-605 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/
04)
§ 6-124 ANIMALS; VICIOUS.
   (Repealed by Ord. 828, 10/16/12) 
§ 6-125 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS; RESTRAINED.
   (Repealed by Ord. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-126 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS; CONFINED.  
   (Repealed by Ord. 828, 10/16/12) 
§ 6-127 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (Repealed by Ord. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-128 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.  
   (Repealed by Ord. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-129 ANIMALS; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY; OWNER LIABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a domestic animal owned, kept,
or harbored by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person. The owner or possessor of any such domestic animal, in addition to the
usual judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so
injured in an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained. (Ref. 54-
601, 54-602 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-130 ANIMALS; OWNER LIABILITY.    
   Any person defined as an owner under this Article shall be deemed to be
liable for all penalties herein prescribed. (Ref. 54-606, 71-4401 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 351, 4/20/93; 642, 6/1/04)
§ 6-131 ANIMALS; EQUINE; BOVINE; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (1)   (a)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice, or contest.
      (b)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests. (Ref. 54-911 RS Neb.)
   (2)   (a)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall, or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest.
      (b)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall, or dragging of any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.  (Ref. 54-912 RS Neb.)
§ 6-132 ANIMALS; PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring an
animal or allowing such animal to be under his charge or control to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Permit an animal to defecate on any privately owned or occupied
property other than that of the owner or the person having control of the
animal without immediately cleaning or removing the excrement;
      (2)   Permit an animal to defecate on public property, including
designated off leash dog parks, without immediately cleaning or removing the
excrement;
      (3)   Permit an animal to unreasonably obstruct the use and enjoyment of
property held by others in the community by allowing such animal to habitually
bark, howl, yelp, bay or make other noise which by loudness or frequency causes
a breach of the peace; provided, however, this section shall not apply to the
Animal Shelter, veterinarians, and medical laboratories;
      (4)   Permit unsanitary conditions to exist on any premises where an
animal is kept which would cause foul or obnoxious odors, attract flies or
vermin or otherwise threaten the public health and safety;
      (5)   Permit an animal to engage in menacing behavior including but not
limited to the chasing of vehicles or the molesting, or frightening of
passersby or neighbors.
   (B)   An Animal Control Officer may abate any of the above nuisances, either
through issuance of a citation or impounding the animal, if no owner or agent
can be found at the time of the nuisance. (Ord. No. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-133 ANIMALS; SEIZURE AND CONFINEMENT. 
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Authority to capture,
secure, and remove to the Animal Shelter or other suitable impoundment or care
facility, in as humane manner as is practicable under the circumstances, any
animal running at large, owned, kept, harbored, or confined in violation of
this Chapter. The animals so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and
shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day.
Each impounded animal shall be kept and maintained at the Animal Shelter,
impoundment, or other care facility for a period of not less than five (5) days
after public notice has been given unless keeping or harboring the animal is
lawful within the City and the animal has been reclaimed earlier by its owner.
Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks or
identifications, shall be posted at the office of the Animal Control Authority
within twenty-four (24) hours after impoundment as public notification of such
impoundment.
   (B)   If keeping or harboring the impounded animal is lawful within the
City, then such animal may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by payment of the required fees as set by the Animal Control
Authority. The owner shall then be required to comply with applicable licensing
and rabies vaccination requirements within seventy-two (72) hours after
release. If the animal is not claimed at the end of the required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the Animal Control Authority may dispose of
the animal in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations pertaining
to the same, provided that if, in the judgment of the Animal Control Authority,
a suitable home can be found for any such animal, the animal shall be turned
over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees
and comply with all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements provided
in this Chapter.
   (C)   The City and/or Animal Control Authority shall acquire legal title to
any unlicensed animal impounded in the Animal Shelter for a period longer than
the required waiting period after giving notice.
   (D)   All expenses of licensing such animals and maintaining the City dog
pound and the salary of the Humane Officer shall be paid out of the General
Fund of the City, and all sums collected by the City Clerk for animal licensing
and all impounding charges collected shall be deposited to and become a part of
the General Fund of the City, unless otherwise provided for by a contract
entered into pursuant to § 6-102 of this Chapter. (Ord. No. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-134 ANIMALS; POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL; DETERMINATION; RIGHTS OF ANIMAL
CONTROL OFFICE.
   (A)   The preliminary determination as to whether a particular animal is a
potentially dangerous animal shall be made by the City’s Animal Control
Authority on the basis of reasonable evidence, which may include but shall not
be limited to reports and statements of witnesses, observation, and the opinion
of experts. If the Animal Control Officer has reasonable cause to believe that
the animal threatens the safety of the public or of domestic animals, the
Animal Control Officer may enter upon any premises upon which the animal is
kept and remove the animal from those premises to a place of impoundment.
   (B)   If the Animal Control Authority has preliminarily determined an animal
to be a potentially dangerous animal as defined in § 6-101, the Animal Control
Authority shall initiate administrative proceedings to make such determination
final by serving a preliminary determination notice on such animal’s owner
either:
      (1)   Personally;
      (2)   By certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner
at the owner’s usual place of residence; or
      (3)   By residence service, which shall mean leaving a copy at the
owner’s usual place of residence with some person of suitable age and
discretion residing therein. The preliminary determination notice shall
contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner whose animal is the subject of
the proceeding;
         (b)   The name, description and any known license number of the animal
that is the subject of the proceeding;
         (c)   A statement that the Animal Control Authority has preliminarily
determined the animal to be a potentially dangerous animal and a summary
description of the facts that form the basis of such preliminary determination;
         (d)   A summary of the effects of a final determination that the
animal is a potentially dangerous animal, including a summary or copy of the
requirements of §§ 6-136, 6-137, 6-138, and 6-139, and a statement that
noncompliance by the owner with such requirements will result in the owner
being declared a reckless owner by the animal control authority;
         (e)   A statement of the effective date on which the preliminary
determination notice will become a final determination order if the owner does
not file a timely written request for hearing with the Animal Control
Authority, which effective date shall be not less than ten (10) days after the
date of mailing (or of personal or residence service) of the preliminary
determination notice; and
         (f)   A statement that the owner may file with the City’s Animal
Control Authority a written request for hearing within ten (10) days after the
date of the mailing (or within ten days after the personal or residence
service) of the preliminary determination notice.
   (C)   If the owner whose animal is preliminarily determined to be a
potentially dangerous animal does not file a written request for hearing with
the Animal Control Authority within ten (10) days after the date of mailing (or
within ten (10) days after the personal or residence service) of the
preliminary determination notice, the preliminary determination notice shall
become a final determination order on the effective date stated in the
preliminary determination notice, and the City’s Animal Control Authority shall
so indicate in the records of the Animal Control Authority. In such a case, the
owner shall comply with §
6-139 immediately, with §§
6-136 and
6-137 within thirty (30) days after such effective date, and with §
6-138 within ninety days after such effective date. If the owner fails to
comply with any of such sections within the time limits specified, the Animal
Control Authority shall initiate administrative proceedings under §
6-135 to declare the owner a reckless owner.
   (D)   If the owner whose animal is preliminarily determined to be a
potentially dangerous animal files a written request for hearing with the
Animal Control Authority within ten (10) days after the date of mailing (or
within ten (10) days after the personal or residence service) of the
preliminary determination notice, a hearing on such preliminary determination
notice shall be held by a Hearing Officer designated by the Animal Control
Authority. The hearing shall be held if practicable within ten (10) days after
the date of receipt by the Animal Control Authority of the written request for
hearing. Written notice of the time and place of hearing shall be served on the
owner of the animal by personal service, or by residence service as described
in division (B) above, not less than forty-eight (48) hours prior to the
scheduled hearing. At the hearing, the owner shall be provided an opportunity
to appear and offer evidence to dispute the preliminary determination notice. A
written determination to affirm or reverse the preliminary determination notice
shall be entered by the Hearing Officer within ten (10) days after the date of
the hearing, if practicable. If the preliminary determination notice is
affirmed, the Hearing Officer shall enter a final determination order and,
unless the owner initiates a timely appeal under division (E) below, such order
shall require the owner to comply with §
6-139 immediately, with §§
6-136 and
6-137 within thirty (30) days after the entry of the final determination order,
and with §
6-138 within ninety (90) days after entry of the final determination order. If
the owner fails to comply with any of such sections within the time limits
specified, the Animal Control Authority shall initiate administrative
proceedings under § 6-135 to declare the owner a reckless owner.
   (E)   Within ten (10) days after the date of the Hearing Officer’s decision,
either the owner aggrieved by a decision of the Hearing Officer or the Animal
Control Authority may appeal such decision to the City of Springfield Board of
Health in such manner and in accordance with such procedures as the Board of
Health may establish by rule or regulation. The Board of Health may affirm or
reverse the decision of the Hearing Officer and shall be empowered to enter any
order the Hearing Officer might have entered. If so ordered by the Board of
Health, the owner shall comply with §
6-139 immediately, with §§
6-136 and
6-137 within thirty (30) days after the entry of the order, and with §
6-138 within ninety (90) days after entry of the order. If the owner fails to
comply with any of such sections within the time limits specified, the Animal
Control Authority shall initiate administrative proceedings under §
6-135 to declare the owner a reckless owner.
   (F)   The Animal Control Authority will notify the owner of any potentially
dangerous dog that has been involved in no incidents of the type specified in §
6-101 during the two (2) years following the date of the determination order,
that their dog is no longer declared a potentially dangerous dog. (Ord. No.
828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-135 ANIMALS; RECKLESS OWNER.    
   (A)   If an owner has been convicted of one or more violations of this
chapter on three (3) separate occasions in any period of twenty-four (24)
consecutive months, the Animal Control Authority shall initiate administrative
proceedings to declare such owner a reckless owner and to revoke all pet
license(s) issued to such owner that are associated with the owner’s animal(s)
that were the subject or subjects of any of such convictions. If an owner’s
animal has been determined to be a dangerous animal or a potentially dangerous
animal and such owner has not complied in a timely manner with the requirements
of this Chapter pertaining to such animals, the Animal Control Authority shall
initiate administrative proceedings to declare such owner a reckless owner and
to revoke all pet license(s) issued to such owner that are associated with such
animal. In either case, such proceedings shall be instituted by service of a
written declaration and revocation notice upon such owner, either:
      (1)   Personally;
      (2)   By certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner
at the owner’s usual place of residence; or
      (3)   By residence service, which shall mean leaving a copy at the
owner’s usual place of residence with some person of suitable age and
discretion residing therein. The declaration and revocation notice shall
contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner who is subject to such
declaration and revocation notice;
         (b)   The name(s), description(s) and license number(s) of any animal
(s) associated with such violations licensed to the owner;
         (c)   A description of the violations or requirements which form the
basis of such declaration and revocation notice, including the case numbers, if
any;
         (d)   A summary of the effects of such declaration, including the
revocation of such pet license(s) and surrender to the animal control authority
of such animal(s);
         (e)   The date the Animal Control Authority proposes to enter a final
declaration and revocation order, which shall be not less than ten (10) days
after the date of mailing (or of personal or residence service) of the notice,
and
         (f)   A statement that the owner may file with the City’s Animal
Control Authority a written request for hearing within ten (10) days after the
date of the mailing (or within ten (10) days after the personal or residence
service) of the declaration and revocation notice.
   (B)   If the owner does not file a written request for hearing within ten
(10) days after the date of mailing (or within ten (10) days after the personal
or residence service) of the declaration and revocation notice, then such
declaration and revocation notice automatically shall become a final
declaration and revocation order, and within twenty-four (24) hours after the
expiration of such ten (10)-day period the owner shall surrender such animal(s)
to the Animal Control Authority. Failure to surrender such animal(s) shall
result in immediate impoundment by the Animal Control Authority in accordance
with § 6-133. Such surrendered or impounded animal(s) shall immediately become
the property of the Animal Control Authority and may be disposed of or
destroyed humanely by the Animal Control Authority, or placed with a new owner,
as the authority deems appropriate.
   (C)   If the owner files a written request for hearing within ten (10) days
after the date of mailing (or within ten (10) days after the personal or
residence service) of the declaration and revocation notice, a hearing on such
declaration and revocation notice shall be held by a Hearing Officer designated
by the Animal Control Authority. The hearing shall be held if practicable
within ten (10) days after the date of receipt by the Animal Control Authority
of the written request for hearing. Written notice of the time and place of
hearing shall be served on the owner of the animal by personal service, or by
residence service as described in division (A) above, not less than forty-eight
(48) hours prior to the scheduled hearing. At the hearing, the owner shall be
provided an opportunity to appear and offer evidence to dispute the declaration
and revocation notice. A written determination to affirm or reverse such
declaration and revocation notice shall be entered by the Hearing Officer
within ten (10) days after the date of the hearing if practicable. If the
decision is to affirm the declaration and revocation notice, the Hearing
Officer shall enter a final declaration and revocation order requiring the
owner to surrender such animal(s) to the Animal Control Authority within ten
(10) days after the date of the Hearing Officer’s decision, unless the owner
initiates a timely appeal from such decision under division (D) below.
   (D)   Within ten (10) days after the date of the Hearing Officer’s decision,
either the owner aggrieved by a decision of the Hearing Officer or the Animal
Control Authority may appeal such decision to the City of Springfield Board of
Health in such manner and in accordance with such procedures as the Board of
Health may establish by rule or regulation. The Board of Health may affirm or
reverse the decision of the Hearing Officer and shall be empowered to enter any
order the Hearing Officer might have entered.
   (E)   An owner who is declared a reckless owner shall be prohibited from
licensing, residing with, or owning any additional animal(s) in the City for a
period of forty-eight (48) consecutive months from the date of entry of the
declaration and revocation order. (Ord. No. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-136 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; SPAYING OR
NEUTERING; MICROCHIP IDENTIFICATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
Any animal judicially determined to be a dangerous animal (but not ordered to
be destroyed), and any animal administratively finally determined to be a
potentially dangerous animal, shall be spayed or neutered and implanted with
microchip identification by a licensed veterinarian at the owner’s expense
within thirty (30) days after such determination is entered, and written proof
of spaying or neutering and of microchip identification number implantation
shall be provided to the Animal Control Authority within seventy-two (72) hours
after completion of the procedure. In addition, such dangerous or potentially
dangerous animal shall be required to be licensed as a dangerous or potentially
dangerous animal within thirty (30) days after the determination. (Ord. No.
828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-137 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; PROOF OF
INSURANCE.
   No animal judicially determined to be a dangerous animal or administratively
determined to be a potentially dangerous animal shall be licensed unless the
person having custody, ownership or control of such animal first presents to
the Animal Control Authority written proof of liability insurance, written by
an insurer authorized to issue such insurance in Nebraska, having limits of
liability of not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for injury
to anyone person caused by such animal. Such insurance shall be maintained in
effect for the entire period such animal is deemed to be a dangerous animal or
potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control Authority may require proof
that such insurance coverage remains in effect at any time, but not more
frequently than every sixty (60) days, or may require such policy of insurance
to provide that it may not be cancelled or allowed to expire without thirty
(30) days prior written notice to the Animal Control Authority. (Ord. No. 828,
10/16/12)
§ 6-138 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; CLASSES
REQUIRED.  
   The owner of any animal judicially determined to be a dangerous animal or
administratively determined to be a potentially dangerous animal shall be
required to attend, within ninety (90) days after such determination is entered
and at the owners expense, a responsible pet ownership class approved by the
Animal Control Authority and, at the discretion and direction of the Animal
Control Authority, an animal behavior class provided or approved by the Animal
Control Authority. (Ord. No. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-139 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; LEASH, MUZZLE AND
HARNESS REQUIRED.  
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, or having the
care of a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal to permit or enable
such animal to go beyond the property of such person unless the animal is under
the control of a person nineteen (19) years of age or older, the animal is
restrained securely by a harness and leash no more than six (6) feet in length,
and the animal is properly muzzled to reasonably prevent the animal from
biting.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
      HARNESS. A close fitting device with straps that encircle the animal’s
body across the chest, over the shoulders, and under the belly behind the front
legs, to which a leash can be securely attached, and which is constructed of
materials sufficient to securely restrain the animal wearing it given the size
and strength of the animal.
      LEASH. A strap, rope or similar tethering device that can be securely
attached to a harness and which is of sufficient strength and weight to
securely restrain the animal wearing the harness.
      MUZZLE. A basket or cage-like device approved by the Animal Control
Authority to cover the animal’s mouth and snout and prevent the animal from
biting, but which allows the animal to open its mouth to pant and drink. (Ord.
No. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-140 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS ANIMALS; CONFINED.    
   No person owning, harboring, or having the care of a dangerous animal shall
permit such animal to go unconfined on the premises of such person. A dangerous
animal shall be securely confined in a humane manner indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of
children under six (6) years of age and to prevent the animal from escaping.
The pen or structure, if allowed by zoning regulations, shall have secure sides
and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides,
the sides shall be embedded no less than one (1) foot into the ground or have a
concrete pad. The pen or structure shall also protect the animal from the
elements. The owner of a dangerous animal shall post a clearly visible warning
sign on the property where the animal is kept that informs persons that a
dangerous animal is on the property. (Ord. No. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-141 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any animal that has been determined to be a dangerous animal or a
potentially dangerous animal that bites a human being without provocation may
be immediately impounded by an Animal Control Officer and held until
disposition of the animal is finally determined. The owner shall be responsible
for the reasonable costs incurred for the care of such impounded animal. (Ord.
No. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-142 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS ANIMALS AT LARGE; DESTRUCTION.
   If an animal that has been determined to be a dangerous animal as defined in
§
6-101 is found at large and unattended upon public property, park property, or
a public right-of-way, or upon property not owned or under the control of the
owner of the animal, thereby creating a hazard to persons or property, such
animal may, in the discretion of the Mayor or his or her designee, the Animal
Control Authority, the Animal Control Officer, or a law enforcement officer, be
destroyed if the Authority or Officer reasonably believes the animal cannot be
confined or captured without unreasonable risk of harm to persons or property.
The City shall be under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture of a
dangerous animal found at large nor shall it have a duty to notify the owner of
such animal prior to its destruction. (Ord. No. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-143 ANIMALS; DANGEROUS ANIMALS; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Any dangerous animal may be immediately confiscated by an Animal
Control Officer if the owner is in violation of this Chapter. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the Animal Control
Authority for the care of such dangerous animal confiscated by an Animal
Control Officer and for the destruction of any dangerous animal if the action
by the Animal Control Authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated
this Chapter.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the Animal Control
Authority to dispose of or destroy a dangerous animal in an expeditious and
humane manner. (Ord. No. 828, 10-16-12)
§ 6-144 ANIMALS; IMPOUNDMENT OF CERTAIN ANIMALS DURING ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   If there is reasonable cause shown that an animal would constitute a
hazard to the safety of the public at large during the pendency of any action
or proceeding commenced under this Chapter, or that the owner of such animal
has subjected the animal to neglect or cruelty, the court may order such animal
impounded pending the outcome of such proceedings. Any person who owns, kept,
harbored, maintained, or controlled the animal involved in such impoundment
shall pay all expenses of the impoundment to the Animal Control Authority,
including costs of shelter, food, veterinary expenses, boarding, and other
expenses necessitated by the impoundment of the animal or as may be required
for the protection of the public. The Animal Control Authority may require such
person, prior to expiration of ten (10) days after the date of impoundment, to
pay an amount sufficient to pay all reasonable expenses incurred in caring and
providing for the animal, including estimated medical care, for thirty (30)
days, inclusive of the date on which the animal was impounded. If such payment
is not made prior to expiration of such ten (10)-day period, the animal shall
become the property of the Animal Control Authority and may be humanely
disposed of, destroyed, or placed with a new owner, as the Animal Control
Authority deems appropriate. Such payment shall be required for each succeeding
thirty (30)-day period. If any such payment is not made prior to the end of
each succeeding thirty (30)-day period, the animal shall become the property of
the Animal Control Authority and may be humanely disposed of, destroyed, or
placed with a new owner, as the Animal Control Authority deems appropriate.
   (B)   The amount of the payment shall be determined by the Animal Control
Authority based on the current rate for board at the Animal Shelter and the
condition of the animal after its examination by a veterinarian acting for the
Animal Control Authority. Any such payment received by the Animal Control
Authority in excess of the amount determined by the Animal Control Authority to
be due for the board and care of the animal shall be refunded by the Animal
Control Authority upon expiration of the order of impoundment. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if the owner of the animal is found not guilty of animal neglect
or cruelty, the owner shall only be required to pay the veterinary expenses and
one-half of the board and care fees determined by the Animal Control Authority
to be due.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined by a veterinarian
acting for the Animal Control Authority that such animal is diseased or
disabled, that it would be inhumane to allow such animal to continue to suffer
the effects of such disease or disability, and that the owner of such animal
declines to advance the costs of reasonable veterinary efforts to cure or
ameliorate the effects of such disease or disability and that the costs of such
veterinary efforts are not otherwise economically practicable, then the animal
shall immediately become the property of the Animal Control Authority and may
be humanely disposed of, destroyed, or placed with a new owner, as the Animal
Control Authority deems appropriate. (Ord. No. 828, 10/16/12)
§ 6-145 POT-BELLIED PIGS; NUMBER AND SIZE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor at any time more
than one pot-bellied pig per dwelling unit within the City limits or within the
one (1) mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the City. Further, it
shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any pot-bellied pig
reaching a size greater than one hundred (100) pounds in weight or twenty-two
(22) inches in height within the City limits or within the one (1) mile
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the City. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-146 POT-BELLIED PIGS; SPAYING: NEUTERING.  
   It shall be unlawful to own, keep or harbor a pot-bellied pig within the
City limits or within the one (1) mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the City that is not spayed or neutered within thirty (30) days after attaining
the age of three (3) months. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-147 POT-BELLIED PIGS; RUNNING AT LARGE.  
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or permit any pot-bellied pig
which is owned, kept or harbored by him/her to run or be at large in or upon
the private premises of others or upon the streets, highways and other public
places of the City or within the one (1) mile extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the City. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-148 POT-BELLIED PIGS; RESTRAINT.  
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any pot-bellied pig within the City or
within the one (1) mile extra territorial zoning jurisdiction of the City to
fail to keep his/her pot-bellied pig securely restrained by a chain or
otherwise confined in or upon his/her premises in an enclosure sufficient to
contain the potbellied pig. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-149 POT-BELLIED PIGS; DAMAGING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.  
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a pot-bellied pig to allow or permit
his/her pot-bellied pig to damage property of others or cause bodily injury. If
the owner is adjudged guilty of a violation of this section, the court may, in
addition to the penalty provided for the violation of this Code, order such
disposition or destruction of the offending pot-bellied pig as may seem
reasonable and proper. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-150 POT-BELLIED PIGS; DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, keeps, harbors, maintains, or
permits on any parcel of land or premises under his/her control any pot-bellied
pig which by loud, continued, or frequent oinking, squealing, or grunting shall
annoy or disturb the peace and comfort of the inhabitants of any neighborhood
or interfere with any person or persons in the reasonable and comfortable
enjoyment of life or property; provided, however, this section shall not apply
to the Animal Shelter, veterinarians, and medical laboratories. (Ord. No. 929,
6/7/16)
§ 6-151 POT-BELLIED PIGS; APPLICABILITY OF SECTIONS 6-145 THROUGH 6-167.  
   The provisions of sections
6-145 through
6-167 shall be applicable and controlling within the corporate limits of the
City and within the one (1) mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the
City, regardless of when a pot-bellied pig was acquired by the owner or when it
was brought into the City limits or the one (1) mile extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the City. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-152 POT-BELLIED PIGS; EXCEPTIONS. 
   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, the provisions of sections 6-145
through 6-167 shall not be deemed to apply to, or in any way to interfere with,
the ordinary conduct and operation of veterinary clinics, biological
laboratories or pet shows, when conducted within the City or within the City or
within the one (1) mile extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the City. (Ord.
No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-153 POT-BELLIED PIGS; LICENSE REQUIRED.  
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any pot-bellied
pig within the City limits or within the one (1) mile extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction of the City unless such pot-bellied pig has been licensed by the
authority as required by the provisions of sections 6-145 through 6-167;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any pot-bellied pig
which has not reached the age of eight (8) weeks. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-154 POT-BELLIED PIGS; APPLICATION. 
   (1)   Written application for a license required by the provisions of
sections 6-145 through 6-167 shall be made to the authority, or its designee,
and the application shall:
      (a)   State the name and address of the owner of the pot-bellied pig;
      (b)   State the color, age and sex of the pot-bellied pig;
      (c)   Submit documentation signed by a licensed veterinarian indicating
that, upon reaching the age of four (4) months, the pot-bellied pig has been
neutered or spayed;
      (d)   Provide such other information as may identify the pot-bellied pig.
   (2)   The application shall certify to the information contained in such
application under penalty of law of the willful making of any untrue statement.
(Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-155 POT-BELLIED PIGS; DATE FOR OBTAINING LICENSE.  
   Licenses required by the provisions of sections
6-145 through
6-167 shall be procured on or before January 1 of each year, provided:
   (1)   If the pot-bellied pig is acquired by an owner after such date, such
license shall be acquired within thirty (30) days after the date of acquisition
of such pot-bellied pig.
   (2)   If the owner becomes a resident of the City after January 1, he/she
shall acquire such license within thirty (30) days after he/she established
residency in the City. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-156 POT-BELLIED PIGS; FEES GENERALLY.  
   The annual fee for a license required by the provisions of sections 6-145
through 6-167 shall be as listed in the Master Fee Schedule. (Ord. No. 929, 6/
7/16)
§ 6-157 POT-BELLIED PIGS; LATE CHARGE.  
   In the event the owner fails to acquire a license under the provisions of
sections 6-145 through 6-167 within the time required, he/she shall pay a late
charge as provided for the Master Fee Schedule in addition to the fees required
by sections 6-145 through 6-167. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-158 POT-BELLIED PIGS; ISSUANCE; TAG.
   (1)   Upon payment of the required fee, the authority or its designee shall
issue a numbered receipt and tag to the owner of the pot-bellied pig licensed.
   (2)   Such license receipt shall contain the owner's name and address and
such description of the potbellied pig as may be required for purposes of
identification, and the number of the tag issued therefor.
   (3)   Such tag shall be in such form and description as the authority or its
designee shall determine from time to time. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-159 POT-BELLIED PIGS; SEPARATE LICENSE AND TAG REQUIRED FOR EACH-POT-
BELLIED PIG.  
   A separate license and tag is required under the provisions of sections 6-
145 through 6-167 for each pot-bellied pig owned, kept or harbored by any
person. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-160 POT-BELLIED PIGS; WEARING OF COLLAR AND TAG OR OTHER IDENTIFICATION.  
   Upon receiving a tag under the provisions of sections
6-145 through
6-167, it shall be the duty of the owner or other person keeping a pot-bellied
pig to ensure that the pot-bellied pig bears the permanent means of
identification at all times such as an implanted micro-chip or such tag
attached to a durable collar or harness worn at all times. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/
16)
§ 6-161 POT-BELLIED PIGS; RECORDS.  
   The authority or its designee shall keep a record of the name and address of
each owner obtaining a license under the provisions of sections
6-145 through
6-167 and the number of the license and tag issued. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-162 POT-BELLIED PIGS; EXPIRATION.  
   Licenses issued under the provision of sections
6-145 through
6-167 shall be valid until January 1 of the succeeding year. (Ord. No. 929, 6/
7/16)
§ 6-163 POT-BELLIED PIGS; MISUSE OF TAG.  
   No owner shall permit or allow his/her pot-bellied pig to wear any license
tag other than the one issued for such pot-bellied pig and for the period of
the license year hereinbefore mentioned. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-164 POT-BELLIED PIGS; REMOVAL OF TAG.  
   No person shall remove or cause to be removed the collar or tag from any
licensed pot-bellied pig without the consent of the owner, keeper, or harborer
thereof. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-165 POT-BELLIED PIGS; VACCINATION REQUIRED.    
   (1)   Every pot-bellied pig required to be licensed by sections
6-145 through
6-167 shall be vaccinated, by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the State
and certified to treat livestock by the State Department of Agriculture, for
the following diseases:
      (a)   Four (4) to six (6) weeks of age:
         Erysipelas bacterin;
         Leptospira (five (5) or six (6) serotypes) bacterin;
         Atropine rhinitis vaccine.
      (b)   Eight (8) to ten (10) weeks of age: repeat above schedule (unless
second vaccine already administered).
      (c)   Biannually: Booster leptospira bacterin.
      (d)   Annually:
         Booster erysipelas bacterin;
         Tetanus toxoid (if recommended by veterinarian);
         Booster atrophic rhinitis vaccine.
   (2)   Young pot-bellied pigs shall be vaccinated within thirty (30) days
after they have reached two (2) months of age. Unvaccinated pot-bellied pigs
acquired or moved into the State must be vaccinated within thirty (30) days
after purchase or arrival, unless less than two (2) months of age as specified
above. Subject to the above, every such pot-bellied pig shall be revaccinated
following a period of not more than twelve (12) months since its last
vaccination. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-166 POT-BELLIED PIGS; BLOOD TESTS REQUIRED.
   Every pot-bellied pig required to be licensed by sections
6-145 through
6-167 shall, no later than the age of eight (8) weeks, be blood tested to
ensure that the animal is not carrying pseudo rabies or brucellosis. Such
testing shall be repeated annually thereafter. In the event the animal tests
positive for either disease, the animal shall be held by the authority or its
designee and treated until cured, or if the disease is incurable, the animal
shall be destroyed. The cost of holding and, if necessary, destroying the
animal shall be borne by the owner of the animal. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
§ 6-167 POT-BELLIED PIGS; CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION AND BLOOD TESTING.  
   (1)   It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, at the time of vaccinating
or blood testing any potbellied pig, to complete a certificate of vaccination
and blood testing, which shall include but not be limited to the following
information:
      (a)   The owner's name and address;
      (b)   An adequate description of the animal, including but not limited to
such items as the animal's sex, age, name, and distinctive markings;
      (c)   The date of vaccination;
      (d)   The vaccination tag number;
      (e)   The type of vaccine administered;
      (f)   The manufacturer's serial number of the vaccine used. Such
veterinarian shall issue a tag with the certificate of vaccination;
      (g)   The date of blood testing; and
      (h)   The results of the blood tests.
   (2)   The veterinarian shall make and provide a copy of each certificate
issued to the authority or its designee at the time of its issuance. In the
event blood tests reveal the presence of pseudo rabies, brucellosis, or other
disease, the veterinarian shall notify the authority or its designee
immediately. (Ord. No. 929, 6/7/16)
Article 2. [Reserved]
Article 3. Miscellaneous Misdemeanors
Section
   
6-301   Misdemeanors; Impersonating an Officer
   
6-302   Misdemeanors; Resisting Officer
   
6-303   Misdemeanors; Abusing Officer
   
6-304   Misdemeanors; Trespassing
   
6-305   Misdemeanors; Malicious Destruction of Property
   
6-306   Misdemeanors; Larceny
   
6-307   Misdemeanors; Concealing Stolen Property
   
6-308   Misdemeanors; Arson
   
6-309   Misdemeanors; Fire Equipment
   
6-310   Misdemeanors; Discharge of Firearms
   
6-311   Misdemeanors; Concealed Weapons
   
6-312   Misdemeanors; Slingshots, Air Guns, Bb Guns
   
6-313   Misdemeanors; Assaults
   
6-314   Misdemeanors; Assault and Battery
   
6-315   Misdemeanors; Disturbing the Peace
   
6-316   Misdemeanors; Disorderly Conduct
   
6-317   Misdemeanors; Indecent Behavior
   
6-318   Misdemeanors; Window Peeping
   
6-319   Misdemeanors; Littering
   
6-320   Misdemeanors; Prohibited Fences
   
6-321   Misdemeanors; Appliances in Yard
   
6-322   Misdemeanors; Obstruction of Public Ways
   
6-323   Misdemeanors; Obstructing Water Flow
   
6-324   Misdemeanors; Weeds, Litter, Stagnant Water
   
6-325   Misdemeanors; Diseased or Dying Trees
   
6-326   Misdemeanors; Abandoned Automobiles
   
6-327   Misdemeanors; Curfew
   
6-328   Misdemeanors; Loitering
   
6-329   Misdemeanors; Shoplifting
   
6-330   Misdemeanors; False Reporting
   
6-331   Misdemeanors; Violence on a Service Dog; Interference with a Service
Dog
   
6-332   General Offenses; Drinking on Public Property; Open Beverage Container
   
6-333   Misdemeanors; Loud, Unnecessary Noises
   
6-334   Misdemeanors: Use of Tobacco by Persons Under the Age of 21
   
6-335   Misdemeanors: Sale of Tobacco to Persons Under the Age of 21
   
6-336   Misdemeanors: Misrepresentation by Person Under the Age of 21 to Obtain
Tobacco
   
6-337   Misdemeanors: Criminal Mischief
   
6-338   Misdemeanors: Public Indecency
   
6-339   Misdemeanors: Gambling
§ 6-301 MISDEMEANORS; IMPERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a Municipal or State Police
Officer to wear an official badge or uniform, or to falsely and willfully
impersonate the said officials. (Ref. 28-610 RS Neb.)
§ 6-302 MISDEMEANORS; RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to assist a Municipal Officer
when lawfully requested to do so by him. Any person who refuses to assist an
officer when lawfully requested to do so shall be fined in any amount not
exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00).
§ 6-303 MISDEMEANORS; ABUSING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abuse a police officer or Municipal
official in the execution of his office. (Ref. 28-729 RS Neb.)
§ 6-304 MISDEMEANORS; TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon any private grounds
within the Municipality, or to break, cut, or injure any tree, shrub, plant,
flower, or grass growing thereon, or without the consent of the owner or
occupant to enter upon an improved lot or grounds occupied for residence
purposes and to loiter about the same. (Ref. 28-588, 28-588.01 RS Neb.)
§ 6-305 MISDEMEANORS; MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully, or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another. (Ref. 28-572, 28-
573 RS Neb.)
§ 6-306 MISDEMEANORS; LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods, or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall steal
property of any kind, whether the same be entirely in money or entirely
property of the value of less than three hundred ($300.00) dollars shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-512, 28-514 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
170, 9/2/75)
§ 6-307 MISDEMEANORS; CONCEALING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   Any person who receives or conceals stolen property, goods, or chattels of
any kind with the intent to defraud the owner, or whoever receives or conceals
any money or other accountable receipts and evidences of ownership shall be
deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-513 RS Neb.)
§ 6-308 MISDEMEANORS; ARSON.
   Any person who willfully, maliciously or negligently sets on fire any
property when the injury or damage therefrom shall be of a less value than
thirty-five ($35.00) dollars, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ref. 28-503 RS Neb.)
§ 6-309 MISDEMEANORS; FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an active member of the
Municipal Fire Department to deface, destroy, handle, or loiter about the
equipment and property of the Fire Department.
§ 6-310 MISDEMEANORS; DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the Municipality; provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Governing Body. (Ref.
17-556 RS Neb.)
§ 6-311 MISDEMEANORS; CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person who
carries a weapon or weapons concealed on or about his or her person such as a
revolver, pistol, bowie knife, dirk or knife with a dirk blade attachment,
brass or iron knuckles or any other deadly weapon commits the offense of
carrying a concealed weapon.
      (b)   It is an affirmative defense that the defendant was engaged in any
lawful business, calling, or employment at the time he or she was carrying any
weapon or weapons and the circumstances in which such person was placed at the
time were such as to justify a prudent person in carrying the weapon or weapons
for the defense of his or her person, property, or family.
   (2)   This section does not apply to a person who is the holder of a valid
permit issued under the Concealed Handgun Permit Act if the concealed weapon
the defendant is carrying is a handgun defined in section 69-2429 RS Neb. (Ref.
28-1202 RS Neb.)
§ 6-312 MISDEMEANORS; SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the Municipality. (Ref. 17-207 RS Neb.)
§ 6-313 MISDEMEANORS; ASSAULTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault or threaten any other person
or persons. Any person who assaults another person or persons shall be deemed
to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-411 RS Neb.)
§ 6-314 MISDEMEANORS; ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, threaten, strike, or injure
any other person or persons. Any person who assaults or batters another person
or persons shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.  (Ref. 28-411 RS
Neb.)
§ 6-315 MISDEMEANORS; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to assemble or gather within
the Municipality with the intent to do an unlawful or disorderly act or acts,
by force or violence against the Municipality, or residents therein, or who
shall disturb the public peace, quiet, security, repose, or sense of morality.
Any person or persons so assembled or gathered shall be deemed to be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-818 RS Neb.)
§ 6-316 MISDEMEANORS; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall knowingly start a fight, fight, commit assault or
battery, make unnecessary noise, or otherwise conduct themselves in such a way
as to breach the peace shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 17-
129, 17-556 RS Neb.)
§ 6-317 MISDEMEANORS; INDECENT BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons over the age of fourteen (14)
years to commit any indecent or immoral act, or to appear in any public place
in improper clothing, or not decently garbed. It shall be unlawful for any
person, or persons, to sell or convey any indecent and obscene books, pictures,
or films, or to take part in any indecent, lascivious, or obscene show, play,
theatrical exhibition, or other form of entertainment that is shocking to the
public morals. Any person or persons who commit a rude, indecent, or immoral
act shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 28-920, 28-921, 28-
926.09, 28-926.10 RS Neb.)
§ 6-318 MISDEMEANORS; WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go upon the private premise of
another to look or peep into any window, door, or other opening in a building
occupied by any other person.
§ 6-319 MISDEMEANORS; LITTERING.
   (1) Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (a)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (b)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (2) The word litter as used in this section shall mean all waste material
susceptible of being dropped, deposited, discarded or otherwise disposed of by
any person upon any property in the state but does not include wastes of
primary processes of farming or manufacturing. Waste material as used in this
section shall mean any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (3) Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering. (Ref. 28-523 RS Neb.) 
(Amended by Ord. No. 369, 3/7/95)
§ 6-320 MISDEMEANORS; PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits.
§ 6-321 MISDEMEANORS; APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless he shall first remove all
doors and make the same reasonably safe. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 6-322 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the public use of the same.
§ 6-323 MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
§ 6-324 MISDEMEANORS; WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   (A) Lots or pieces of ground within the City or within its extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to prevent stagnant water
or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the City or
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece of
ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of twelve (12)
inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the City or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of twelve (12) inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the City or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. Notice
shall be given by mailing a copy of the notice by certified mail to the owner
or the owner's duly authorized agent and by first class mail to the occupant,
if any. Such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Notice
shall also be given on the same day as the mail is sent to the owner, the
owner's duly authorized agent and occupant by conspicuously posting the notice
on the real estate upon which the violation is to be abated and removed. The
notice shall be printed on 8½ x 11 inch paper in no less than twelve (12) point
type and shall describe the violation and reference this ordinance. Within five
(5) days after receipt of such notice or posting of the notice on the real
estate, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a
hearing with the Municipality to appeal the decision to abate or remove a
nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the City Clerk. A
hearing on the appeal shall be held within fourteen (14) days after the filing
of the appeal and shall be conducted by the City Council. The City Council
shall render a decision on the appeal within five (5) business days after the
conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the City may have such work
done. Within five (5) days after receipt of such notice or posting of the
notice on the real estate, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of
ground does not request a hearing with the City or fails to comply with the
order to abate and remove the nuisance, the City may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two (2) months after such work is done, the City may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (town), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa), and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae). (Ref. 17-563 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 201, 11/6/
79; 304, 10/4/88; 343, 4/7/92; 665, 11/2/04; 855, 2/4/14; 926, 5/17/16; 956, 5/
2/17)
§ 6-325 MISDEMEANORS; DISEASED OR DYING TREES.
(Amended by Ord. No. 196, 11/6/79; Repealed by Ord. No. 883, 5/5/15)
§ 6-326 MISDEMEANORS; ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            (i)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In
Transit stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed
thereto, for more than six (6) hours on any public property;
            (ii)   If left unattended for more than twenty-four (24) hours on
any public property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally
permitted;
            (iii)   If left unattended for more than forty-eight (48) hours,
after the parking of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of
any public property on which parking is legally permitted;
            (iv)   If left unattended for more than seven (7) days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            (v)   If left for more than thirty (30) days in the custody of a
City law enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-
registered owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            (vi)   If removed from private property by the City pursuant to a
City ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            (i)   If left unattended for more than twenty-four (24) hours on
any public property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally
permitted;
            (ii)   If left unattended for more than forty-eight (48) hours,
after the parking of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of
any public property on which parking is legally permitted;
            (iii)   If left unattended for more than seven (7) days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            (iv)   If left for more than thirty (30) days in the custody of a
City law enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-
registered owner and lienholder under division (D) of this section; or
            (vi)   If removed from private property by the City pursuant to a
City ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than thirty (30) days after a local governmental
unit, pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to
each of the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home,
stating that the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title
as set forth in section 60-1903 RS Neb.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under section 28-431 RS
Neb. shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one (1) or more
units that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional
capacity, or of two (2) or more units, separately towable but designed to be
joined into one (1) integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as
defined in section 71-4603 RS Neb. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home
or manufactured home for which an affidavit of affixture has been recorded
pursuant to section 60-169 RS Neb.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or City-owned property. (Ref. 60-1901 RS Neb.)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid In Transit stickers issued pursuant to
section 60-376 RS Neb. affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into
consideration the condition of the vehicle, of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
or less, title shall immediately vest in the City. Any certificate of title
issued under this division to the City shall be issued at no cost to the City.
(Ref. 60-1902 RS Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) of this section,
the City shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such
vehicle as follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The City shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within fifteen (15) business days, that the vehicle in
question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed,
either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
(5) days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the City thirty (30) days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (b) of this
section also notifies the City that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice
shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such
vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of its removal and storage.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
City:
         (a)   Five (5) days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) of this
section;
         (b)   Thirty (30) days after the date the notice is mailed if the City
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) of this section, the City may retain for use, sell, or auction the
abandoned vehicle. If the City has determined that the vehicle should be
retained for use, the City shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is
mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the City intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use
and that title will vest in the City thirty (30) days after the publication.
(Ref. 60-1903 RS Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   If a City law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, and any
lienholder, if any, within fifteen (15) business days, stating that the vehicle
is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer
needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after thirty (30) days the agency
will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under section 28-431 RS Neb.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees. (Ref. 60-
1903.01 RS Neb.)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in sections 60-1902 and 60-1903 RS Neb.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this subsection is
subject to sections 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 RS Neb. by the private
towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within twenty-four (24) hours, the
designated law enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is
removed and provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification
number, if available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name
of the private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the
private towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this
subsection is subject to sections 52-601.01 to 52-605 and 60-2410 RS Neb. by
the private towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking. (Ref. 1903.02 RS Neb.)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) of this section to be removed from public property in
this City, the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a
state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)(1), (2),
(3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section to be removed from public
property in this City, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the City
which shall have custody.  (Ref. 60-1904 RS Neb.)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the City’s
custody, less any expenses incurred by the City, shall be held by the City
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholder of such vehicle
for a period of two (2) years. If not claimed within such two (2) year period,
the proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the City. (Ref. 60-1905 RS
Neb.)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor the
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
City, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the City or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition. (Ref. 60-1906 RS Neb.)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) or (A)(b)(1), (2), or (3) of
this section. (Ref. 60-1907 RS Neb.)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the City or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division shall be guilty of an
offense. (Ref. 60-1908 RS Neb.)
   (K)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the City for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle. (Ref. 60-1909 RS
Neb.)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Ref. 60-1901 through 60-1911 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 200, 11/6/79; 496,
7/5/00; 891, 7/21/15; 1011, 8/2/19; 1118, 9/20/22)
§ 6-327 MISDEMEANORS; CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to
ride in or operate any vehicle in or upon any street, alley, or other public
place, or to loiter, wander, stroll, loaf, or play in or upon any of the
streets, alleys, or other public places between the hours of eleven (11:00)
o’clock P.M. of any day and six (6:00) o’clock A.M. of the following day unless
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the care,
custody or control of said minor, or the minor is engaged in lawful employment
or is on an emergency errand; provided, when an activity of the kind normally
attended by minors under eighteen (18) years terminates after, or less than one
(1) hour prior to eleven (11:00) o’clock P.M., the curfew shall commence one
(1) hour after the termination of such activity. (Amended by Ord. No. 281, 7/2/
85)
§ 6-328 MISDEMEANORS; LOITERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter on the streets, in the park,
on the sidewalk, or on any other public ways and property at unreasonable
hours, and those persons who are unable to give a good and satisfactory reason
why they should be there shall be deemed to be guilty of loitering. (Ref. 17-
556 RS Neb.)
§ 6-329 MISDEMEANORS; SHOPLIFTING.
   (1)   A person commits the crime of theft by shoplifting when he or she,
with the intent of appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without
paying for the same or to deprive the owner of possession of such property or
its retail value, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (a)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (b)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (c)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (d)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tag from another item of merchandise; or
      (e)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   (2)   In any prosecution for theft by shoplifting, in order to allow the
owner of owners of shoplifted property the use of such property pending
criminal prosecutions, photographs of the shoplifted property may be accepted
as prima facie evidence as to the identity of the property. Such photograph
shall be accompanied by a written statement containing the following:
      (a)   A description of the property;
      (b)   The name of the owner or owners of the property;
      (c)   The time, date, and location where the shoplifting occurred;
      (d)   The time and date the photograph was taken;
      (e)   The name of the photographer; and
      (f)   Verification by the arresting officer.
   (3)   Prior to allowing the use of shoplifted property as provided in this
section, legal counsel for the alleged shoplifter shall have a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and appraise the property and may file a motion for
retention of the property, which motion shall be granted if there is any
reasonable basis for believing that the photographs and accompanying affidavit
may be misleading.  (Ref. 28-511.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 238, 4/5/83)
§ 6-330 MISDEMEANORS; FALSE REPORTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any peace
officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation of an
alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
   (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the existence
of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or out-of-
hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other
person or governmental agency;
   (3)   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or any
personnel or equipment of such department;
   (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person;
   (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding such investigation.
   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false reporting.
(Ref. 28-907 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 234, 4/5/83; 461, 8/4/98)
§ 6-331 MISDEMEANORS; VIOLENCE ON A SERVICE DOG; INTERFERENCE WITH A SERVICE
DOG.   
   (1)   A person commits the offense of violence on a service dog when he or
she (a) intentionally injures, harasses, or threatens to injure or harass or
(b) attempts to intentionally injure, harass, or threaten a dog that he or she
knows or has reason to believe is a dog guide for a blind or visually impaired
person, a hearing aid dog for a deaf or hearing-impaired person, or a service
dog for a physically limited person.
   (2)   A person commits the offense of interference with a service dog when
he or she (a) intentionally impedes, interferes, or threatens to impede or
interfere or (b) attempts to intentionally impede, interfere, or threaten to
impede or interfere with a dog that he or she knows or has reason to believe is
a dog guide for a blind or visually impaired person, a hearing aid dog for a
deaf or hearing-impaired person, or a service dog for a physically limited
person.
   (3)   Evidence that the defendant initiated or continued conduct toward a
dog as described in subsection (1) or (2) of this section after being requested
to avoid or discontinue such conduct by the blind, visually impaired, deaf,
hearing-impaired, or physically limited person being served or assisted by the
dog shall create a rebuttable presumption that the conduct of the defendant was
initiated or continued intentionally.
   (4)   For purposes of this section:
      (a)   Blind person means a person with totally impaired vision or with
vision, with or without correction, which is so severely impaired that the
primary means of receiving information is through other sensory input,
including but not limited to braille, mechanical reproduction, synthesized
speech, or readers;
      (b)   Deaf person means a person with totally impaired hearing or with
hearing, with or without amplification, which is so severely impaired that the
primary means of receiving spoken language is through other sensory input,
including but not limited to lip reading, sign language, finger spelling, or
reading;
      (c)   Hearing-impaired person means a person who is unable to hear air
conduction thresholds at an average of 40 decibels or greater in the person’s
better ear;
      (d)   Physically limited person means a person having limited ambulatory
abilities, including but not limited to having a permanent impairment or
condition that requires the person to use a wheelchair or to walk with
difficulty or insecurity to the extent that the person is insecure or exposed
to danger; and
      (e)   Visually impaired person means a person having a visual acuity of
20/200 or less in the person’s better eye with correction or having a
limitation to the person’s field of vision so that the widest diameter of the
visual field subtends an angular distance not greater than 20 degrees. (Ref 28-
1009.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 460, 8/4/98)
§ 6-332 GENERAL OFFENSES; DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         1.   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         2.   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
         3.   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         4.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five (5) and no more than fourteen (14) persons behind the
driver with a physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger
compartment. LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or
shuttles, or buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in sections 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c) RS Neb., any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         1.   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         2.   a.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            b.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this Municipality.
   (3)   Except as provided in section 10-121 of this Code or division (4) of
this section, it is unlawful for any person to consume an alcoholic beverage:
      (a)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this Municipality; or
      (b)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this Municipality.
   (4)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but not
drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party service
as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the state Public
Service Commission and subject to Neb. Admin. Code, Chapter 75, Article 3. Such
passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume
alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or
on any highway in this Municipality if:
      (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
      (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area. (Ref. 60-6,211.08 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 500, 7/5/00) (Amended by
Ord. No. 817, 6/19/12)
§ 6-333 MISDEMEANORS; LOUD, UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise, or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the limits of the City.
   (1)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of the Code, but such enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (a)   Horns, Signaling, Devices, etc. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, street car or other vehicle on
any street or public place of the City, except as a danger warning, the
creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or
harsh sound and the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and
unreasonable period of time. The use of any signaling device except one
operated by hand or electricity, the use of any horn, whistle or other device
operated by engine exhaust and the use of any signaling device when traffic is
for any reason held up.
      (b)   Radios, Stereo Equipment, etc. The using, operating or permitting
to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
stereo equipment or other machine or device for the producing of sound in such
manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in
which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntarily listeners
thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, stereo equipment, machine
between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty feet (50')
from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this Code.
      (c)   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers for Advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, stereo equipment, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of, sound which is cast upon the public
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention
of the public to any building or structure.
      (d)   Yelling, Shouting, etc. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of eleven o’clock
(11:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M., or at any time or place so as to
annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in
any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence or of any persons in the
vicinity.
      (e)   Animals. The keeping of any animal which by causing frequent or
long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the
vicinity.
      (f)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat or motor
vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      (g)   Defect in Vehicle or Load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
      (h)   Construction or Repairing of Buildings. The erection (including
excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on
week days , except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health
and safety, and then only with a permit from the Building Inspector; which
permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three (3) days or less while
the emergency continues and which permit may be renewed for periods of three
(3) days or less while the emergency continues. If the Building Inspector
should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the
erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of
streets and highways within the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M., and if he or she shall further determine that loss or
inconvenience would result to any party-in-interest, he or she may grant
permission for such work to be done within the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. upon application being made at the time the
permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of work.
      (i)   Drums. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show
or sale.
      (j)   Pile Driver, Hammers, etc. The operation between the hours of ten
o’clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. of any pile driver, steam
shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance,
the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise.
      (k)   Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or
any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the
explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or
fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to
deaden such noise.
      (l)   Fireworks. Permissible fireworks may not be discharged except from
June 25 through July 4 and December 29 through December 31 and only during the
hours of 8:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m., except that on July 4 and December 31
permissible fireworks may be discharged from 8:00 a.m. through 12:00 midnight.
   (2)   Waiver. The Governing Body may allow exceptions to this section. Any
party wishing to be excluded from these provisions must receive permission from
a majority of the Governing Body during a public Council Meeting. The Governing
Body may attach certain limitations to the request for exclusion. The City
Clerk shall send a notification of approval and limitations to the responsible
party. The responsible party shall have said notification available for
inspection by authorities during the period of noncompliance.  (Ord. No. 568,
7/16/02) (Amended by Ord. No. 897, 8/4/15; 1068, 7/5/21)
§ 6-334 MISDEMEANORS: USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21. 
   Whoever, being a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, shall smoke
cigarettes or cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative
nicotine products, or use tobacco in any form whatever in this City, shall be
guilty of an offense. Any person charged with a violation of this section may
be free from prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of
the person or persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or
tobacco. (Ref. 28-1418 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 892, 7/21/15) (Amended by Ord. No.
1038, 7/21/20; 1091, 12/7/21)
§ 6-335 MISDEMEANORS: SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21. 
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any
form whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products, to any person
under twenty-one (21) years of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) if this section, a person who is at
least fifteen (15) years of age but under twenty-one (21) years of age may
assist a peace officer in determining compliance with such division if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under nineteen (19) years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer, or an intern with a
state or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
Nebraska Juvenile Code, and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years acting in
accordance with an under the authority of this division shall not be in
violation of section 28-1427 RS Neb. (Ref. 28-1419 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 892, 7/
21/15) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 1037, 7/21/20; 1092, 12/7/21)
§ 6-336 MISDEMEANORS: MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN
TOBACCO.  
   Except as provided in §
6-335(B), any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years who obtains cigars,
tobacco, cigarettes, or cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, or alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by
representing that he or she is of the age of twenty-one (21) years or over, is
guilty of an offense. (Ref. 28-1427 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 892, 7/21/15) (Amended
by Ord. Nos. 1036, 7/21/20; 1093, 12/7/21)
§ 6-337 MISDEMEANORS: CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages property of another intentionally or recklessly; or
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with property of another so as to endanger
person or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes pecuniary loss of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more but less than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00); or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or if
his or her action results in no pecuniary loss. (Ref. 28-519 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
916, 5/17/16) (Amended by Ord. No. 957, 5/2/17)
§ 6-338 MISDEMEANORS: PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person, eighteen (18) years of age or over, commits the offense of
public indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other
person to perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be
expected to be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in section 28-318 RS Neb.;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront
or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Ref. 28-806 Res. Neb.) (Ord. No. 1034, 7/21/20)
§ 6-339 MISDEMEANORS: GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in section 28-
1101 RS Neb. shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
(1) day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) or more with one (1) or more persons in one (1) day; or (Ref. 28-1102
and 28-1103 RS Neb.)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) in any one (1) day. (Ref. 28-1104 Res. Neb.)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device, knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor, or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, shall have an affirmative
defense to possession of a gambling device described in division (C)(1) of this
section if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement device decal as
required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be overcome if the
owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the device constituted
unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was operated on the premises
of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division, any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal Gambling Device Tax Stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Public Law 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal. (Ref. 28-1107 RS Neb.)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity. (Ref. 28-1108 RS Neb.)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Ref. 28-1109 RS Neb.)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this City
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted. (Ref. 28-1110 RS Neb.)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances, or
electronic communication devices as defined in section 28-833 RS Neb., or any
equipment, components, peripherals, software, hardware, or accessories related
to electronic communication devices, or any gambling devices, be forfeited as a
part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
section 28-1601 RS Neb., that any or all such property was derived from, used,
or intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section. (Ref. 28-1111
Res. Neb.)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense. (Ref. 28-
1112 Res. Neb.)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horse races by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horse-race meetings; or
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, the Nebraska Small Lottery and Raffle Act, the State Lottery Act,
or section 9-701 RS Neb.
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals twenty-one (21) years of age or older within licensed racetrack
enclosures as provided In the Nebraska Racetrack Gaming Act. (Ref. 28-1113 RS
Neb.)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event. (Ref. 28-1117 RS Neb.)
(Ord. Nos. 1035, 7/21/20; 1119, 9/20/22)
§ 6-340 MISDEMEANORS: CRIMINAL TRESPASS.  
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in section 70-2103 RS Neb.
to support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and
which is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed. (Ref. 28-520 RS Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, enters or remains in any
place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon,
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, unmanned aircraft means an aircraft,
including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated without the
possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft.
      (4)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(3)(5) of this section.
      (5)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person. (Ref. 28-521 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 1133, 6/6/23)
Article 4. Sex Offender Residency Restrictions
Section
   
6-401   Findings and Intent
   
6-402   Definitions
   
6-403   Residency Restrictions
   
6-404   Exceptions
   
6-405   Property Owners Prohibited from Renting Real Property to Certain Sex
Offenders; Penalties
§ 6-401 FINDINGS AND INTENT.  
   (1)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
   (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (3)   It is the intent of this article to serve the City’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside. (Ord. 694, 11/1/05; Amended by Ord. Nos. 714, 7/18/06; 874, 2/3/
15)
§ 6-402 DEFINITIONS.  
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act;
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. A village, city, county, school district, public
power district, or any other unit of local government;
   RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory;
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory;   
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for accreditation or approval prescribed in Neb. Rev. Stat.
Chapter 79;
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
Rev. Stat. §29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant
to the Sex Offender Registration Act; and
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has committed an aggravated offense as defined
in Neb. Ref. Stat. §29-4001.01, and who has victimized a person eighteen (18)
years of age or younger. (Neb. Rev. Stat. §29-4016) (Ord. 694, 11/1/05; Amended
by Ord. No. 714, 7/18/06; 874, 2/3/15)
§ 6-403 RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within five hundred (500) feet from a school or child care
facility.
   (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
(Amended by Ord. No. 874, 2/3/15)
§ 6-404 EXCEPTIONS.
     These regulations shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
   (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility operated
by the state or a political subdivision;
   (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
   (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location. (Neb. Rev. Stat. §29-4017)
(Ord. 694, 11/1/05; Amended by Ord. Nos. 714, 7/18/06; 874, 2/3/15)
§ 6-405 PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING REAL PROPERTY TO CERTAIN SEX
OFFENDERS; PENALTIES.
(Ord. 694, 11/1/05; Repealed by Ord. No. 714, 7/18/06)
Article 5. Penal Provisions
Section
   
6-501   Violations; Penalty
   
6-502   Abatement of Nuisance
§ 6-501 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
§ 6-502 ABATEMENT  OF  NUISANCE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
CHAPTER 7: FIRE REGULATIONS
Article
      
Article 1. Fires
      
Article 2. Fire Prevention
      
Article 3. Explosives
      
Article 4. Penal Provision
Article 1. Fires
Section
   
7-101   Fires; Preservation of Property
   
7-102   Fires; Disorderly Spectator
   
7-103   Fires; Equipment
   
7-104   Fires; Interference
   
7-105   Fires; Obstruction
   
7-106   Fires; Assistance
   
7-107   Fires; Driving over Hose
   
7-108   Fires; Traffic
   
7-109   Fires; False Alarm
   
7-110   Fires; Pedestrians
§ 7-101 FIRES; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have
the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The
Fire Chief may direct the Municipal Firemen to remove any building, structure,
or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The Fire Chief
shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives
any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
checking the progress of the same.
§ 7-102 FIRES; DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a
period of thirty-six (36) hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or
refuse to obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of their official duties. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§ 7-103 FIRES; EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the Municipality. (Ref. 28-519 RS Neb.)
§ 7-104 FIRES; INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§ 7-105 FIRES; OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant,
or have or place any material within fifteen (15') feet of the said hydrant.
Any vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by
the Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and
expense of the owner or claimant. (Ref. 60-6,166 RS Neb.)
§ 7-106 FIRES; ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§ 7-107 FIRES; DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief
or Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department. (Ref. 60-6,184 RS Neb.)
§ 7-108 FIRES; TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five (5) minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than five hundred
(500') feet to any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is
connected. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department, or emergency vehicles. (Ref. 60-6,183
RS Neb.)
§ 7-109 FIRES; FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire. (Ref. 28-907, 35-520 RS Neb.)
§ 7-110 FIRES; PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
Article 2. Fire Prevention
Section
   
7-201   Fire Prevention; Fire Prevention Code
   
7-202   Fire Prevention; Fire Code Enforcement
   
7-203   Fire Prevention; Lawful Entry
   
7-204   Fire Prevention; Violation Notice
   
7-205   Fire Prevention; Removal Required
   
7-206   Fire Prevention; Repair Required
   
7-207   Fire Prevention; Fires Regulated
   
7-208   Fire Prevention; Open Burning Ban; Waiver
   
7-209   Fire Prevention; Knox Box Entry System
§ 7-201 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal of the State of Nebraska relating to fire prevention are incorporated
by reference into this Code and made a part of this Article as though spread at
large herein together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three (3) copies
of the Fire Prevention Code shall be on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall
be available for public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-
902, 19-922, 81-502 RS Neb.) 
§ 7-202 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all Municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
§ 7-203 FIRE PREVENTION; LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
Municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire. (Ref. 81-512 RS Neb.)
§ 7-204 FIRE PREVENTION; VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the Municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five (5) days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
§ 7-205 FIRE PREVENTION; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   In the event that any wooden or combustible building or structure is damaged
to the extent of fifty (50%) percent or more of its value, exclusive of the
foundation, it shall not be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be taken down and
removed within thirty (30) days from the date of such fire or other casualty.
(Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-206 FIRE PREVENTION; REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building becomes damaged to the extent of less than
fifty (50%) percent of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the
duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant to remove or repair the said building in
accordance with the provisions of this Article and with the provisions of this
Code relating to building permits. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow
a building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any such building
shall be removed or repaired within thirty (30) days after receiving notice to
do so by the Governing Body.  (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-207 FIRE PREVENTION; FIRES REGULATED.
   It shall be lawful to build or set out fires; provided, that the person
building such fires shall have the substance to be burned in a fireproof trash
burner or incinerator with a metal fireproof screen of not more than one (1")
inch mesh, and located at least twenty (20') feet from any building. The
incinerator shall be built in such a way as to not permit the escape of burning
paper or other substance. If any person shall require a fire in the course of
his trade as a blacksmith or mechanic, such fire shall be built and maintained
in the manner prescribed by the Fire Chief. All fires shall be built after
seven (7:00) o'clock A.M. and completely extinguished by eight (8:00) o'clock
P.M., except the aforesaid fires used in the course of a trade which shall be
allowed during such hours as the Fire Chief shall prescribe. It shall be
unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn, or cause to be burned any
garbage, animal matter, or vegetable matter. The burning of straw, hay, leaves,
or brush in the open air is hereby permitted and allowed; provided, that the
person setting out the same request permission and receive an open burning
permit in writing, signed by the local Fire Chief, on a form provided by the
State Fire Marshal; and provided further, that any such burning shall be done
while the said fire is attended by the person setting out the same at all
times, and further provided that the said fire shall be located at least twenty
(20') feet from any building. (Ref. 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 239, 4/5/83)
§ 7-208 FIRE PREVENTION; OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (1)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (2)   The Fire Chief of the Springfield Rural Fire Protection District or
his or her designee may waive an open burning ban under division (1) of this
section for an area under the municipal Fire Department's jurisdiction by
issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to
conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a
form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (3)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban
in the municipal Fire Department's jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable
to the Chief. Anyone intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention
to burn prior to starting the burn.
   (4)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (2) of this
section. (Ref. 81-520.01 RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 240, 4/5/83) (Amended by Ord. Nos.
370, 3/7/95; 818, 6/19/12)
§ 7-209 FIRE PREVENTION; KNOX BOX ENTRY SYSTEM.  
   Where access to or within a structure or area is restricted because of
secured openings or where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or
fire- fighting purposes, the Fire Chief is authorized to require a key box to
be installed in an approved location. The key box shall be on an approved type
and shall contain keys to gain access by the Fire Chief. (Ord. No. 945, 2/7/17)
Article 3. Explosives
Section
   
7-301   Explosives; Storage Registration
   
7-302   Explosives; Blasting Permits
§ 7-301 EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   Any person storing dynamite, gunpowder, nitroglycerine, or other high
explosives within the Municipality shall register such information with the
Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall provide such information to the Municipal Fire
Chief. Explosives shall be stored in a proper receptacle which shall be closed
at all times, except when actually in use. Such cement, metal, or stone
receptacle shall not be located in any room where there is a flame or flammable
materials. (Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
§ 7-302 EXPLOSIVES; BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the Municipality must
secure a permit from the Governing Body and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with their direction and under their supervision, and in no case
shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user's permit issued by the
Nebraska State Patrol. (Ref. 17-556, 28-1229 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 317, 3/13/90)
Article 4. Penal Provision
Section
   
7-401   Violations; Penalty
§ 7-401 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person, or any person's agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)   
CHAPTER 8: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Article
      
Article 1. Municipal Property
      
A
rticle 2. Sidewalks
      
A
rticle 3. Streets
      
A
rticle 4. Curb and Gutter
      
A
rticle 5. Trees
      
A
rticle 6. Telecommunications - Small Wireless Facilities
      
Article 7 Penal Provision
Article 1. Municipal Property
Section
   
8-101   Municipal Property; Definitions
   
8-102   Municipal Property; Maintenance and Control
   
8-103   Municipal Property; Sale and Conveyance of Real Property
   
8-103.01   Municipal Property; Sale and Conveyance of Personal Property
   
8-104   Municipal Property; Obstructions
   
8-105   Municipal Property; Permitted Obstructions
   
8-106   Municipal Property; Weeds
   
8-108   Municipal Property; Acquisition of Property; Construction; Elections,
When Required
   
8-109   Municipal Property; Advertising Benches
   
8-110   Municipal Property; Acquisition of Real Property; Public Meeting;
Access for Recreational Use
   
8-111   Municipal Property; Acquisition of Property; Appraisal
   
8-112   Municipal Property; Public Works Involving Architecture or Engineering;
Requirements
   
8-113   Municipal Property; Regulation of Snow, Ice and Other Encroachments
   
8-114   Municipal Property; Regulation of Obstructions
§ 8-101 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
SIDEWALK SPACE. The term "sidewalk space," as used herein, shall mean that
portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent property lines.
§ 8-102 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Governing Body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within
the Municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and
free from nuisances. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
§ 8-103 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) of this section, the power of the
city to convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park
purposes and public squares, except real property used in the operation of
public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at
public auction or by sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of
such sales, except that the property shall not be sold at public auction or by
sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) of this section and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three (3) consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
(city).
   (D)   (1)   If within thirty (30) days after the third publication of the
notice a remonstrance petition against the sale:
         (a)   Conforms to section 32-628 RS Neb.;
         (b)   Is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to
thirty percent (30%) of the registered voters of the city voting at the last
regular city election held therein; and
         (c)   Is filed with the City Council, that property shall not then,
nor within one (1) year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the thirty (30) day period, but the filing shall be
considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the
aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City
Council shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in
the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address with the voter registration records to determine
whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be
presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one (1) person is registered by that name,
the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and
shall count only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within forty (40) days
after the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall
be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested. Not more than twenty (20) signatures on one (1)
signature page shall be counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within thirty (30) days after the receipt
of the remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and
receive testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of sections 18-1001 through 18-1006 RS Neb.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the thirty (30) day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale. (Ref. 17-503 RS Neb.)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) of this section shall not apply to the sale
of real property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real
property, the total fair market value of which is less than five thousand
dollars ($5,000). Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven (7) days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale
by passage of an ordinance may be required. (Ref. 17-503.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
241, 4/5/83) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 387, 12/19/95; 462, 8/4/98; 637, 1/6/04;
989, 8/7/18; 1140, 6/6/23)
§ 8-103.01 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
       (A)   The power of the City to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three (3) prominent places
within the city for a period of not less than seven (7) days prior to the sale
of the property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than five
thousand dollars ($5000.00), notice of the sale shall also be published once in
a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the City at least
seven (7) days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
subsection (A) of this section when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; and
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency. (Ref. 17-
503.02 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 637, 1/6/04)
§ 8-104 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this Article. Said roots may be removed by the
Municipality at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the tree or
shrub is located should the owner fail, or neglect, after notice, to do so. It
shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or corporation to obstruct, or
encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise, any of the
streets, alleys, or sidewalks. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-105 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the Municipal official in charge of Municipal
streets to do so; provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space,
and more than one-third (1/3) of the roadway of the public space adjacent to
the real estate on which said building is to be constructed, erected,
reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be granted; and provided further, a
suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space
included in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the official issuing the permit.
§ 8-106 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; WEEDS.
   It is hereby the duty of the Street Superintendent or his duly authorized
agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate limits for
growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious weeds are
found growing thereon, the City Clerk shall notify the owner or occupant
thereof, to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably
done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season
for weeds.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of real estate in the Municipality to
cut and clear the sidewalk space abutting the real estate of all weeds and
worthless vegetation that are noxious, obstruct travel, or create a fire or
health hazard. Such weeds and worthless vegetation shall be cut so as not to
extend more than six (6) inches above the ground. Subsequent to the cutting all
loose vegetation shall be immediately removed.
   Upon failure of the owner, lessee, or occupant having control of any such
real estate to cut and clear the said weeds and worthless vegetation as set
forth hereinbefore, the City Clerk shall serve notice on the said owner,
lessee, or occupant to do so. In the event that the weeds and vegetation have
not been removed after a period of five (5) days from the date of the notice,
the City Clerk shall order the same to be done, and the cost thereof shall be
chargeable to the property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the
Municipality after being properly billed, the cost may be assessed against the
real estate and the City Clerk shall certify the assessment to the County Clerk
and the same shall be collected in the manner provided by law. In the event the
property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the
City Clerk shall, before certifying any special assessment against that
property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the non-
resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address listed on
the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first published.
(Ord. No. 303, 10/4/88)
§ 8-108 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION; ELECTIONS,
WHEN REQUIRED.  
   (1)   The Municipality is authorized and empowered to (a) purchase, (b)
accept by gift or devise, (c) purchase real estate upon which to erect, and (d)
erect a building or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, Municipal
building, or community house for housing Municipal enterprises and social and
recreation purposes, and other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and
operate the same for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Municipality.
   (2)   Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section, before any such
purchase can be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to
the electors of the Municipality at a general Municipal election or at an
election duly called for that purpose, or as set forth in section 17-954 RS
Neb., and be adopted by a majority of the electors voting on such question.
   (3)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (a)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality and no election shall
be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within thirty (30)
days after the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase
or construction is signed by registered voters of the Municipality equal in
number to fifteen percent (15%) of the registered voters of the Municipality
voting at the last regular Municipal election held therein and is filed with
the Governing Body. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely
if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a remonstrance
with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question
shall be submitted to the voters of the Municipality at a general Municipal
election or a special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or
construction is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within
one (1) year following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (b)   The Governing Body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in subdivision (a) of this subsection if the
property can be purchased below the fair market value as determined by an
appraisal, there is a willing seller, and the purchase price is less than
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). The purchase shall be approved by
the Governing Body after notice and public hearing as provided in section 18-
1755 RS Neb. (Ref. 17-953, 17-953.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 242, 4/5/83)(Amended by
Ord. No. 388, 12/19/95)
§ 8-109 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ADVERTISING BENCHES.
   (1)   General authorization. It is hereby made lawful for persons to install
and maintain benches for the convenience of the public at places on public
property and to place advertising matter and signs upon such benches, subject
to the regulations, limitations and qualifications of this Article.
   (2)   Location restricted. Benches authorized by the provisions of this
Article shall be located only where the distance from the face of the curb to
the property line is eight feet (8') or more.
   (3)   Bench specifications. All benches installed by permission of this
Article shall conform rigidly to the following specifications:
         A.   The bench shall not be more than six feet (6') in length, not to
exceed forty-two inches (42") in height and thirty inches (30") in depth.
         B.   The benches must be of heavy construction to weigh not less than
four hundred (400) pounds.
         C.   The end-pieces and legs shall be constructed of concrete or solid
metal.
         D.   The back rests shall be constructed of hardwood or plywood not
less than three-fourths inches (3/4") in thickness.
         E.   The seats and backrests shall be constructed of hardwood or
plywood not less than one and three-fourths inches (1 3/4") in thickness.
         F.   The several parts of the bench shall be joined by bolts of one-
half inch (1/2") or greater diameter.
   (4)   Advertising restricted. Only such advertising matter shall be placed
on the benches installed under the provisions of this Article that is
ordinarily displayed in other advertising mediums, except that no human figure
or face shall be displayed.
   (5)   Permit required. No person shall install or maintain any bench under
the provisions of this Article unless he or she shall first obtain a permit to
do so from the City Council.
   (6)   Number of permits restricted. No more than one permittee shall be
allowed a permit for any single intersection under the provisions of this
division.
   (7)   Application for permit. Any person desiring a permit required by the
provisions of this Article shall submit his or her written application therefor
to the City Clerk, giving the location of the proposed bench or benches and
such other information as the City Clerk may, in its discretion, require.
   (8)   Fee for permit. Each application for a permit hereunder shall be
accompanied by a fee as set by the Governing Body. Permits expire annually.
   (9)   Investigation. All applications for a permit required by the
provisions of this Article shall be referred for investigation to the Mayor or
his designee, covering the following points and such others as may appear
pertinent:
         A.   Would the maintenance of a bench at the proposed location tend to
obstruct passage along a public way or create a hazard to persons traveling
thereon?
         B.   Would the maintenance of a bench at the proposed location promote
the convenience of the traveling public?
         C.   Would the maintenance of a bench at the proposed location
detrimentally affect the abutting property owner or tenant?
   (10) Consideration by Council. Unless after an unfavorable report on a
particular location the applicant for a permit required by the provisions of
this division withdraws his or her application for that location, the Mayor or
his designee shall forward a report to the City Council. Upon consideration of
the report and such other evidence as may be offered, including evidence as to
the reliability of the applicant and his or her ability to perform his or her
undertakings under this Article, the City Council shall decide whether or not a
permit shall issue.
   (11) Priority of application. Priority of initial application for any
location shall not cause any rights to vest in the applicant. A permittee who
has performed his or her undertaking under this Article satisfactorily and
applies for renewal before the expiration of an old permit shall be given
priority over another applicant for a permit for the same location.
   (12) Liability of permittee. A permittee under this Article shall defend, at
his or her own expense, any litigation arising from the installation or
maintenance of a bench for which he or she holds a permit.
   (13) Bond; insurance. Before proceeding to install any bench under the
provisions of this Article, the permittee shall file individual bond in the
penal sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000,000) to save the City harmless from
any damage or suit for damage alleged to arise from the installation or
maintenance of any bench installed by him or her. Sureties on such bond are not
required but evidence of public liability insurance in the amounts hereinafter
stated shall be filed, at or prior to the time of filing applications for such
permit with the City Clerk. The public liability insurance shall be twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for the death or injury of one person, with a
total limit of personal injury liability of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
and property damage of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). One bond
and one insurance policy may be filed to cover the maintenance of any number of
benches.
   (14) Conditions of permit. By the acceptance of a permit under the
provisions of this Article, the permittee agrees to:
         A.   Be bound by all of the provisions of this Article;
         B.   Inspect each bench periodically;
         C.   Maintain each bench in a clean, safe and sightly condition; and
         D.   Post and maintain the indemnifying bond and public liability
insurance required by this division.
   (15) Revocation; removal of bench. If the permittee under the provisions of
this Article shall fail to comply with any condition of his or her permit, the
City Clerk shall give him or her thirty (30) days notice of such failure. If
the permittee fails to correct the situation causing noncompliance with this
Article within such time period, and after notice to and approval of the City
Council, the City Council may revoke the permit and remove and store the
proposed bench, charging the cost thereof against the permittee. The permittee
may recover the bench if he or she pays such costs within sixty (60) days after
such removal; otherwise title to the bench shall fully vest in the City.
   (16) Expiration. Permits issued under the provisions of this division shall
expire annually from the date of issuance. (Ord. No. 307, 4/4/89) (Amended by
Ord. No. 538, 2/19/02)
§ 8-110 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING;
ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL USE.
   (1)   The City shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain, the Municipality shall do so only after the Governing Body has
authorized the acquisition by action taken in a public meeting after notice and
public hearing.
   (2)   The City shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property. (Ref. 18-1755
RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 371, 3/7/95)
§ 8-111 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Municipality shall not
purchase, lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an
estimated value of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or more unless an
appraisal of such property has been performed by a certified real property
appraiser. (Ref. 13-403 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 372, 3/7/95)
§ 8-112 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING;
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and sections 81-
3449 and 81-3453 RS Neb., the Municipality shall not engage in the construction
of any public works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans,
specifications, and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been
observed by an architect, a professional engineer, or a person under the direct
supervision of an architect, professional engineer, or those under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board
of Engineers and Architects. (Ref. 81-3445 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other
activities specified in section 81 -3449 RS Neb.:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the municipality that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the Municipality performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance. (Ref. 81-3449 RS Neb.)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section regulating the practice
of engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities
specified in division (B) of this section, or the other activities specified in
section 81-3453 RS Neb.:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in section 46-1212 RS
Neb., the installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the municipality to be designed or supervised by
an engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the municipality as a
part of a public water supply; (Ref. 81-3453 RS Neb.)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the Municipality is considered a
public service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a
professional engineer to be in responsible charge of the Municipality's
architectural or engineering work. (Ref. 81-3423RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 463, 8/4/
98) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 497, 7/5/00; 658, 11/2/04; 819, 6/19/12; 920, 5/17/
16)
§ 8-113 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS. 
   (A)   The Municipality shall have power to prevent and remove all
encroachments, including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon
all sidewalks, streets, avenues, alleys, and other municipal property. (Ref.
17-557 RS Neb.)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five (5)
days' notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such
notice, to remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division
(A), the Municipality through the proper officers may cause such encroachments
to be removed, and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund.
The governing body shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the
encroachment against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special
assessment shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with
the cost of notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in
addition to the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same
penalties as other special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of
the assessment. Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be
credited to the street fund. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 917, 5/17/16)
§ 8-114 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.  
   (A)   The Municipality shall have the power to remove all obstructions from
the sidewalks, curbstones, gutters, and crosswalks at the expense of the person
placing them there or at the expense of the Municipality and to require and
regulate the planting and protection of shade trees in and along the streets
and the trimming and removing of such trees.
   (B)   The Municipality shall have the power to regulate the building of
bulkheads, cellar and basement ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways,
awnings, hitching posts and rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other
structures projecting upon or over and adjoining, and all other excavations
through and under the sidewalks in the Municipality. (Ref. 17-555 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 919, 5/17/16)
Article 2. Sidewalks
Section
   
8-201   Municipal Property; Overhanging Branches
   
8-202   Sidewalks; Kept Clean
   
8-203   Sidewalks; Maintenance
   
8-204   Sidewalks; Construction or Repair
   
8-205   Sidewalks; Construction by Owner
   
8-206   Sidewalks; Municipal Construction
   
8-207   Sidewalks; Construction by Petition
§ 8-201 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any sidewalk over which there extends the branches of trees shall
at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the height of at
least eight (8') feet above the surface of said walk. Whenever the limbs or
branches of any tree or trees extend over sidewalks contrary to the provisions
herein so as to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights,
or with the convenience of the public using said sidewalk, the Governing Body
at any regular or special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or
occupant to cut or remove said obstructions within five (5) days after having
received a copy thereof from the Street Superintendent stating that the
Municipality will remove said branches and charge the costs thereof to the
owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided,
if said resolution is not complied with. In the event the property owner is a
non-resident of the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-202 SIDEWALKS; KEPT CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five (5) hours after the
cessation of a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before eight-
thirty (8:30) o'clock A.M. the following day; provided, sidewalks within the
residential areas of the Municipality shall be cleaned within twenty-four (24)
hours after the cessation of the storm. (Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.)
§ 8-203 SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE.
   (Repealed 2004) See §
8-204.
§ 8-204 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks, or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deems necessary and assess the expense thereof on the property in
front of which the construction or repairs are made, after having given notice:
      (1)   By publication in one (1) issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality; and
      (2)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the occupant
in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such premises ten
(10) days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair. (Ref. 17-
522 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   State that the Governing Body has ordered repair of the sidewalk;
      (2)   Contain the Municipality's estimate of the cost of the repair;
      (3)   Notify the property owner that he or she may, within ten (10) days
after the date of publication of the notice, notify the Municipality that he or
she will repair the sidewalk within thirty (30) days after such date of
publication;
      (4)   Notify the property owner that if he or she fails to so notify the
Municipality within the ten (10) days or, having so notified the municipality,
fails to repair the sidewalk within the thirty (30) days, the Municipality will
cause the sidewalk to be repaired and the expense thereof to be assessed
against the property.
   (C)   (1)   Before the Municipality imposes any special assessments for
sidewalk repair, a copy of the notice that is required to be published shall be
mailed to the last-known address of all nonresident property owners as shown on
the current tax rolls at the time such notice is first published.  (Ref. 13-310
RS Neb.)
      (2)   The Municipal Clerk shall mail the notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested. (Ref. 13-312 RS Neb.)
      (3)   For purposes of this division, nonresident property owner means any
person or corporation whose residence and mailing address as shown on the
current tax rolls is outside the boundaries of the county in which the property
subject to assessment is located and who is a record owner of the property.
(Ref. 13-314 RS Neb.)
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be repaired in conformity with such plans and
specifications as may be approved by the Governing Body.
   (E)   Assessments made under this section shall be made and assessed in the
manner provided in section 17-524 RS Neb.
§ 8-205 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (1)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as herein provided. It shall be unlawful for any
person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (2)   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file
such application in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot, or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; provided, if
it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly
prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the Municipal official in charge of
sidewalks shall submit the application to the Governing Body who shall
determine whether the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed said sidewalk at any
other location, grade, or elevation than so designated by the Municipality. All
sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade, or
elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation
indicated by the Municipal official in charge of sidewalks.
§ 8-206 SIDEWALKS; MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (1)   The Governing Body may, by resolution, order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the Municipality. Notice of the
Governing Body's intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the
Municipal Clerk by publication of notice one (1) time in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the Municipality.
   (2) A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be posted upon such premise ten (10) days prior to the
commencement of construction. The notice required in this section shall be
prepared by the Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this
section. Such service shall include a form of return evidencing personal
service or posting as herein required.
   (3) Said notice shall notify the owner of the premise of the passage of the
resolution ordering him to construct or cause to be constructed a sidewalk
within thirty (30) days after the date of publication and further that if he
fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the time
allowed, the Municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and the
cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the premise;
provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost of said
construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall be
assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a non-
resident of the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-523 RS Neb.)
§ 8-207 SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than sixty (60%) percent
of the front footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment
for sidewalk improvements, petition the Governing Body to make the same, the
Governing Body shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been
ordered by it. Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in
fee simple of property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the
Governing Body may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this
Article upon the freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the
Municipality an agreement to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will
pay the engineering service fee and all other incidental construction costs
until paid shall be a perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the
freeholder desires such sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner
gives and grants to the Municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of
such construction against the freeholder's real estate abutting the sidewalk
improvement and promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of
such improvement shall be levied, allocated, financed, and specially assessed
as provided by law. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the
county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any
special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by
law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the
last known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address
shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. (Amended by Ord. No. 216, 4/1/80)
Article 3. Streets
Section
   
8-301   Streets; Names and Numbers
   
8-302   Streets; Crossings
   
8-303   Streets and Alleys; Opening, Widening, Improving, or Vacating
   
8-304   Streets; Excavation
   
8-305   Streets; Driving Stakes
   
8-306   Streets; Mixing Concrete
   
8-307   Streets; Harmful Liquids
   
8-308   Streets; Eave and Gutter Spouts
   
8-309   Streets; Heavy Equipment
   
8-310   Streets; Pipe Lines and Wires
   
8-311   Streets; Construction Assessment
   
8-312   Streets, Alleys, Walks, Malls and Other Improvements
   
8-313   Streets; Petition for Improvements
   
8-314   Streets; Improvement Districts; Objections
   
8-315   Streets; Deferral from Special Assessments
   
8-316   Streets; Driveway Approaches
   
8-317   Streets; Vacating Public Ways
   
8-318   Streets; Vacating Public Ways; Definitions and Ascertaining Damages
   
8-319   Streets: Right-of-Way Permit
§ 8-301 STREETS; NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The Governing Body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
Governing Body may require. It shall be the duty of the Municipal official in
charge of streets, upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign
the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner
or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
§ 8-302 STREETS; CROSSINGS.
   The Governing Body may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Municipal official in charge of streets, such street,
avenue, and alley crossings as the Governing Body shall deem necessary. When a
petition for the construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested
resident in the office of the Municipal Clerk, said Municipal Clerk shall refer
such application to the chief street official who shall investigate and make
his recommendation to the Governing Body. Action by the Governing Body on such
application, whether the application is approved or rejected, shall be
considered final.
§ 8-303 STREETS AND ALLEYS; OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING.
     (A)   (1)   The Municipality shall have power to open, widen, or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the
Municipality and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue,
alley, or lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the Municipality, or
by the owners of the property therein, shall be ascertained in such manner as
shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof and become a part of such property, unless the Municipality reserves
title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by
the Municipality, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased
upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the
Municipality.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to such land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of such property, unless the
Municipality reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street
or alley. If title is retained by the Municipality, such property may be sold,
conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be
deemed in the best interests of the Municipality.
      (4)   When the Municipality vacates all or any portion of a street,
avenue, alley, or lane, the Municipality shall, within thirty (30) days after
the effective date of the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating
ordinance with the Register of Deeds for the county in which the vacated
property is located to be indexed against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the Municipality the right to maintain,
operate, repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the
property is vacated there; and
         (b)    There is reserved to the Municipality, any public utilities,
and any cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and
operate water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission
lines, sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and
equipment and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines,
above, on, or below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid
easements at the time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of
serving the general public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the
premises to accomplish such purposes at any and all reasonable times. (Ref. 17-
558 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The Municipality shall have power to create, open, widen, or extend
any street, avenue, alley, off- street parking area, or other public way, or
annul, vacate, or discontinue the same. (Ref. 17-559 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 323, 4/3/90; 555, 4/2/02)
§ 8-304 STREETS; EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
chief Municipal street official authorizing such excavations. (Ref. 17-567 RS
Neb.)
§ 8-305 STREETS; DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the chief Municipal Street official.
§ 8-306 STREETS; MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
§ 8-307 STREETS; HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage
or act as a solvent upon said streets.
§ 8-308 STREETS; EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the Municipality where
the said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
§ 8-309 STREETS; HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or person to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter, or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets the Maintenance Superintendent is
hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of
such vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed. Nothing
in this section shall be construed to apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths (5/16) of an inch in diameter
inclusive of the stud-casting with an average protrusion beyond the tread
surface of not more than seven sixty-fourths (7/64) of an inch between October
1, and April 15; provided, that school buses and emergency vehicles shall be
permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all year; it shall be permissible to
use farm machinery with tires having protuberances which will not injure the
streets; and it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide, or skid. (Ref. 39-6,131 RS
Neb.)
§ 8-310 STREETS; PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the
streets, alleys, and common grounds of the Municipality. Application for
location of the above shall be made to the Governing Body in writing. Approval
by that body shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains,
pipe lines, and wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in such
manner as shall be designated by the Governing Body. Such poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by
said companies at their own expense when requested to do so by the Any such
relocation shall be ordered by resolution of the Governing Body and the
Municipal Clerk shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies
shall, within twenty-four (24) hours after receiving notice, at their own
expense, cause the poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances
to be removed. The Governing Body shall designate another location as closely
as possible where said poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other
appurtenances, may be reset or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines,
or other appurtenances, shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner
that they will not interfere with the water system; sewerage system; poles,
wires, and mains of any public utility; adjacent buildings; or with travel on
the public ways and property. Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines, or appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the
Municipality.
§ 8-311 STREETS; CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the Governing Body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon, or especially benefiting from, the street, avenue,
alley, or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed and guttered,
graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended, constructed,
or otherwise improved or repaired. The Governing Body sitting as the Board of
Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
Governing Body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the Municipality at least four (4) weeks before the
same shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may
be had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as ''special assessments for improvements'' and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other Municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said County unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of
the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-511, 17-524, 19-2428
through 19-2431, 45-104.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-312 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The governing body may grade, partially or to an established grade, change
grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel, macadamize,
remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or re-lay
existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public grounds,
public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the municipal
corporate limits and the area adjoining the municipality; construct or
reconstruct pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler
systems, fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent
facilities; and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These
projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on
the property especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as
provided in sections 19-2428 through 19-2431 RS Neb. The governing body may by
ordinance create improvement districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may
include two or more connecting or intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways,
and may include two or more types of the improvements authorized under this
section in a single district in one proceeding. All of the improvements which
are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on the property especially
benefitted shall be ordered as provided in sections 17-510 to 17-512 RS Neb.,
except as otherwise provided in section 17-509 RS Neb. (Ref. 17-509 RS Neb.) 
(Ord. No. 217, 4/1/80) (Amended by Ord. No. 990, 8/7/18)
§ 8-313 STREETS; PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS. 
   Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more
than sixty (60%) percent of the front footage of the property directly abutting
upon the street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds
proposed to be improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk,
petitioning therefor, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such
work to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor,
and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or
adjacent to such street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefited
thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of
such improvement. The Governing Body shall have the discretion to deny the
formation of the proposed district when the area has not previously been
improved with a water system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the
Governing Body should deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall
state the grounds for such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Ref. 17-510 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 221, 4/1/80) (Amended by Ord. No. 257, 11/1/83)
§ 8-314 STREETS; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.  
   Whenever the Governing Body deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefited, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create
a paving, graveling, or other improvement district and, after the passage,
approval, and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish notice of
the creation of any such district for six (6) days in a legal newspaper of the
Municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two (2) consecutive weeks if it is a
weekly newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published in the Municipality, the
publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
Municipality. If the owners of the record title representing more than fifty
percent (50%) of the front footage of the property directly abutting on the
street or alley to be improved file with the Municipal Clerk within twenty (20)
days after the first publication of such notice written objections to the
creation of such district, such improvement shall not be made as provided in
such ordinance, but such ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not
filed against the district in the time and manner prescribed in this section,
the Governing Body shall immediately cause such work to be done or such
improvement to be made, shall contract for the work or improvement, and shall
levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to
such street or alley especially benefited in such district in proportion to
such benefits to pay the cost of such improvement. (Ref. 17-511 RS Neb.)(Ord.
No. 221, 4/1/80) (Amended by Ord. No. 389, 12/19/95)
§ 8-315 STREETS; DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Governing Body of a Municipality creates an improvement
district as specified in section 8-111 which includes land adjacent to the
Municipality which is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively
for agricultural use, the owners of record title of such adjacent land may
apply for a deferral from special assessments. For purposes of this section,
AGRICULTURAL USE means the use of land as described in 77-1359 RS Neb, so that
incidental use of the land for nonagricultural or nonhorticultural purposes
shall not disqualify the land and AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE means designation of
any land predominantly for agricultural or horticultural use by any political
subdivision pursuant to sections 19-924 to 19-933; Chapter 14, Article 4;
Chapter 15, Article 9; Chapter 16, Article 9; Chapter 17, Article 10 or Chapter
23, Article 1 RS Neb. The primary objective of the agricultural use zoning
shall be to preserve and protect agricultural activities and the potential for
agricultural, horticultural or open use of land. Uses to be allowed on such
lands include primarily agricultural- related or horticultural-related uses,
and nonagricultural or nonhorticultural industrial, commercial or residential
uses allowed on such lands shall be restricted so that they do not conflict
with or detract from this objective.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the Governing
Body of the Municipality within ninety (90) days after creation of an
improvement district as specified in section
8-110. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such
application in writing prior to approval by the Governing Body. The Governing
Body shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use, and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the Governing Body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within sixty (60) days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in
subdivision 3 of this section.
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within one hundred twenty-five (125) days of the
transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the Municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of six percent (6%) from the dates at which such assessments would have
been payable if no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in subdivision (B) or (C) of this
section the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding such sale or transfer. (Ref. 19-2428 through 19-2431 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 258, 11/1/83)
§ 8-316 STREETS; DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   The Street Superintendent may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure including pavement or
sidewalks.
   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within thirty (30) days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such approach. (Ref. 18-1748 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 276, 12/4/
84)
§ 8-317 STREETS; VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.    
   (A) SPECIAL DAMAGES shall mean only those losses or damages or injuries
which a property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or
her property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane, or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the City or public at large, even though those losses or damages or
injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than the rest of
the City or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the City to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure:
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first class mail to their last known address or if there is no known
address then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the City. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating such street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at its next regular meeting or, if a
special meeting is scheduled for such discussion, then the date, time, and
place of such meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of such form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane, or similar public way under the authority granted by sections 17-558 and
17-559 RS Neb.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a) A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good or
in the best interests of the City.
         (b) A statement that the City will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities.   
         (c) A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to abutting
property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the City to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule:
An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of such street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way.
If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
(Ord. No. 324, 4/3/90) (Amended by Ord. No. 556, 4/2/02)
§ 8-318 STREETS; VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; DEFINITIONS AND ASCERTAINING DAMAGES.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 556, 4/2/02)
§ 8-319 STREETS; RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to perform work in the City's right-of-way shall obtain
a permit to occupy or use the city road right-of-way. Construction shall comply
with the current edition of the State of Nebraska Department of Roads Standard
Specifications for Highway Construction and comply with the following
regulations:
   (A)   No open cuts of any kind, including boring, on hard surfaced roads
will be allowed, except by express written permission from the City and as
outlined in §8-401.
   (B)   Backfill of open trenches shall be placed in lifts not exceeding eight
(8) inches uncompacted thickness and each layer mechanically compacted at
optimum moisture content (eighteen percent (18%)) to a density at least ninety-
five percent (95%) or equal to that of the existing undisturbed ground which
will prevent excessive settlement or shrinkage. Compaction tests shall be
required with test results given to the City for their records. Photos shall
also be submitted showing before, during and after construction.
   (C)   No backfilling shall take place in freezing weather except with the
permission of the City. No backfill shall be made with frozen materials.
   (D)   All disturbed areas shall be left in a condition as near to original
as possible (grading, rock replacement, seeding or sod). All applicants shall
be required to maintain said area for a six (6) month period following the
completion of work. At any time within the six (6) month time period the
contractor will be notified by the City if any re-compaction in the
construction area or road material (i.e. rock, gravel, and the like) is to be
repaired or replaced.
   (E)   Trenching across gravel roads will not be permitted without the
approval of the City and only provided it is accomplished in increments of one-
half of the roadway at a time. At least one-half of the traveled width of the
roadway shall be kept open and free of obstruction at all times.
   (F)   The applicant is responsible for all barricading. Barricades shall
conform to the barricading standards, specification, methods and materials as
per the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (G)   The closing of a road will not be permitted without approval of the
City.
   (H)   The applicant shall provide the City with a certificate of insurance
naming the City of Springfield as an additional insured. (Ord. No. 1057, 12/1/
20)
Article 4. Curb and Gutter
Section
   
8-401   Curb and Gutter; Cutting Curb
§ 8-401 CURB AND GUTTER; CUTTING CURB.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City Clerk.
Before any person shall obtain a permit, he/she shall inform the City Clerk of
the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be the Municipal
Street Superintendent's duty to make the cut, tear out and remove the old
concrete, and haul it away. The applicant shall notify the Municipal Street
Superintendent and obtain the written permit at least twenty-four (24) hours
before the cutting is to be done. In the event of an emergency, if a party must
cut into the paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving under
such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Municipal Street
Superintendent; provided, that all such cuts shall be "saw cuts" unless the
applicant secured written permission from the City Council to use another
method. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he/she shall
inform the Municipal Street Superintendent at least twenty-four (24) hours
before the opening is to be closed. The work of cutting and closing the paving
shall be charged to the party who obtained such permit.
   (B)   Before any permit is issued by the City Clerk, the applicant for such
permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a fee for all paving, curb, or
sidewalk to be cut, which fee shall be set on a per square-foot cost of
construction basis. Said fee shall be set by ordinance of the City Council, on
file at the office of the City Clerk and available for public inspection during
office hours. The deposit shall be retained by the City for the purpose of
making the cut, removing the old concrete, removing the debris and replacing
the paving, curb, or sidewalk. The deposit shall be retained by the City until
the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Municipal Street
Superintendent. The costs of the cutting, tearing out, removing and replacing
shall be deducted from the deposit, and the balance shall be returned to the
applicant. No permit shall be granted unless the applicant shall in addition to
all other requirements, agree in writing to the following conditions:
      (1)   That the applicant will compensate the City for all work done by
the City in cutting, removing, replacing or repairing any places cut in the
pavement, curb, or sidewalk by the applicant or the City.
      (2)   That the applicant will obey all laws of the City and will save the
City harmless from any damages which may occur as the result of any work
performed by the applicant. (Amended by Ord. No. 799, 1/3/12)
Article 5. Trees
Section
   
8-501   Trees; Street Tree Species to Be Planted
   
8-502   Trees; Spacing and Distances
   
8-503   Trees; Distances and Clearances for Planting
   
8-504   Trees; Public Tree Care
   
8-505   Trees; Permits Required
   
8-506   Trees; Compensatory Payments
   
8-507   Trees; Tree Topping
   
8-508   Trees; Clearance over Streets and Walkways
   
8-509   Trees; Dead or Diseased
   
8-510   Trees; Removal of Stumps
   
8-511   Trees; Interference with the Tree Board
   
8-512   Trees; Access
   
8-513   Trees; Arborist License and Bond
§ 8-501 TREES; STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.    
   The City of Springfield, Nebraska shall maintain a list of recommended trees
for planting in public areas. This list shall be available to residents of the
City upon request to aid in the selection of trees for private properties. The
list of recommended trees shall be updated periodically to reflect new
developments or species that will affect the population of the community
forest. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-502 TREES; SPACING AND DISTANCES.  
   Street trees may be planted no closer together than thirty (30) feet except
in special plantings approved by the Tree Board or Community Forest Manager.
(Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-503 TREES; DISTANCES AND CLEARANCES FOR PLANTING.  
   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more than six
(6) feet between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street. Street
trees shall be planted no closer than three (3) feet from a sidewalk or a
street.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than thirty-five (35) feet from any
street corner, measured from the point of the nearest intersection of curbs or
curblines.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten (10) feet from any fireplug.
   Special permission must be obtained from the Tree Board or the Community
Manager when planting street trees within ten (10) feet of any point on a line
on the ground immediately below any overhead utility wire, or within five (5)
lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line, or
other utility. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-504 TREES; PUBLIC TREE CARE.  
   The City shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within right-of-way or bounds of all streets, alleys, lanes,
squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure the public safety or
to preserve or enhance the beauty of such public grounds.
   The Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements, or is seriously affected with any injurious insect or
disease. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-505 TREES; PERMITS REQUIRED.  
   No person shall plant a street tree or any other tree in the public right-
of-way without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk. There will be no
fee for such permit. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-506 TREES; COMPENSATORY PAYMENTS.
   No person shall remove any public tree without replacing such tree with a
tree or trees of equivalent dollar value in the vicinity of the removed tree.
The value of trees shall be determined by the Community Forest Manager in
accordance with regulations considering the species, location, size and
condition of trees adopted by the Tree Board. If no suitable location exists in
the vicinity of the tree removed or if the replacement tree is of lesser value,
the person causing the tree to be removed shall make a compensatory payment to
the City equal to the difference in value between the tree removed and any
replacement tree. Such compensatory payment shall be paid into a fund
established by the director of finance and used solely for the purpose of
enhancing the community forest. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-507 TREES; TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three (3) inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstruction where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this section at the determination of the Tree Board or the Community Forest
Manager. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-508 TREES; CLEARANCE OVER STREETS AND WALKWAYS.
   Clearance over streets and walkways shall be the responsibility of the
abutting property owner. A clearance of eight (8) feet must be maintained over
walkways and a clearance of fourteen (14) feet must be maintained over streets.
Property owners are responsible for trees on their own property as well as
trees on the public way that abuts their property. (Amended by Ord. No. 798,
10/4/11)
§ 8-509 TREES; DEAD OR DISEASED.   
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the City or within its extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. Notice
shall be given by mailing a copy of the notice by certified mail to the owner
or the owner's duly authorized agent and by first class mail to the occupant,
if any. Such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Notice
shall also be given on the same day as the mail is sent to the owner, the
owner's duly authorized agent and occupant by conspicuously posting the notice
on the real estate upon which the violation is to be abated and removed. The
notice shall be printed on 8½ x 11 inch paper in no less than twelve (12) point
type and shall describe the violation and reference this section. Within five
(5) days after receipt of such notice or posting of the notice on the real
estate, the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a
hearing with the Municipality to appeal the decision to abate or remove a
nuisance by filing a written appeal with the office of the City Clerk. A
hearing on the appeal shall be held within fourteen (14) days after the filing
of the appeal and shall be conducted by the City Council. The City Council
shall render a decision on the appeal within five (5) business days after the
conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails, the City may have the work done
to abate and remove the dead or diseased trees. Within five (5) days after
receipt of such notice or posting of the notice on the real estate, if the
owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing with
the City or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance,
the City may have such work done. The City may levy and assess all or any
portion of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground
so benefitted as a special assessment. (Ref. 17-555 RS Neb.)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the City or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction. The provisions in division (A)(2) shall apply to such nuisances.
For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the City
Administrator or agent shall have the authority to enter upon private property
to inspect the trees thereon. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 923,
5/17/16; 954, 5/2/17)
§ 8-510 TREES; REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-511 TREES; INTERFERENCE WITH THE TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Tree Board or any of its representatives or agents, while engaging in and about
the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any
trees within the community forest, as authorized in this Article. (Ord. No.
294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-512 TREES; ACCESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with
access to private property by the City or its representative in the legal
performance of any section of this Article. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
§ 8-513 TREES; ARBORIST LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing any street tree, park tree or other
privately owned tree without first applying for and procuring a license. The
license fee shall be set by the Tree Board. No license shall be required by any
public service or employee doing such work in the pursuit of their public
service endeavors.
   Before license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of
possession of liability insurance and meet other requirements set by the Tree
Board. (Ord. No. 294, 8/4/87)
Article 6. Telecommunications - Small Wireless Facilities
Section
   
8-601   Findings and Purpose
   
8-602   Definitions
   
8-603   Applicability
   
8-604   Permit Required
   
8-605   Application
   
8-606   Fees
   
8-607   Interference, Removal, and Abandonment
   
8-608   Indemnification
   
8-609   Insurance
   
8-610   Permittee Duties
   
8-611   Location and Design Standards
   
8-612   Make-Ready Work
   
8-613   Assignment
§ 8-601 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is necessary to achieve a balance
between the telecommunications needs of the City's citizens, and the orderly,
safe, and aesthetic deployment of small wireless facilities by
telecommunications companies. The deployment of small wireless facilities is
expected to enable the provision of improved and enhanced wireless services to
citizens and visitors in the City. The FCC has encouraged and required the
adoption of policies supporting the deployment of small wireless facilities in
its September 27, 2018 Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, WT Docket
Nos. 17-79 and 17-84. Also, Nebraska Legislative Bill 184 (2019) imposed new
limits on the local regulation of small wireless facilities. Those actions
encourage the placement of such small wireless facilities in public rights-of-
way.
   (B)   The City is responsible for the safe and aesthetic maintenance of its
public rights-of-way, for the benefit of the public and for the protection of
public health, safety, and welfare. Public rights-of-way are a finite resource,
and are subject to demands from competing interests. It is necessary to govern
their use in a fair, safe, and orderly manner. This includes the proposed use
of public rights-of-way for telecommunications purposes. The City is also
responsible for the processing and review of proposed telecommunications uses
for properties other than public rights-of-way, with the objective of
protecting public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   It is therefore appropriate to adopt these rules and regulations for
the processing and review of applications for proposed small wireless
facilities, both on public rights-of-way and on other properties, and for the
safe, responsible, and fair deployment of small wireless facilities on public
rights-of-way and on other properties, and to comply with and adopt provisions
stated in the said September 27, 2018 FCC Order and Nebraska Legislative Bill
184 (2019). (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-602 DEFINITIONS.   
   For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
purpose of these definitions is to promote consistency and precision in the
interpretation of this Article. The meanings and construction of words as set
forth shall apply throughout this Article, unless where modified in a specific
section or where the context of such words or phrases clearly indicates a
different meaning or construction.
   ACTION or TO ACT. The City's grant of an application or issuance of a
written decision denying an application.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in providing wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Any uniform building, fire, safety, electrical, plumbing,
or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to such codes so long as such amendments are not in conflict with
federal or state law and to the extent such codes have been adopted by the City
and are generally applicable in the City.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A written request submitted by an applicant to the City:
      (1)   For a permit to collocate small wireless facilities on an existing
utility pole or support structure; or
      (2)   For a permit for approval for the installation, modification, or
replacement of a utility pole or support structure to support the installation
of a small wireless facility.
   AUTHORIZATION. Any approval that the City must issue under this Article and
applicable codes prior to the deployment of a small wireless facility, along
with any associated antenna equipment and support structure, including, but not
limited to, zoning approval, building permit, and permit under this Article.
   CANTENNA. A cylindrical shaped antenna.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a support structure or
utility pole. "Collocate" or "collocation" does not include the installation of
a new utility pole or new support structure in the right-of-way.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any set of equipment and network components
including wires, cables, and associated facilities used by a cable operator as
defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5), as such section existed on January 1, 2019, a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(51), as such section
existed on January 1, 2019, a provider of information service as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153(24), as such section existed on January 1, 2019, or a wireless
services provider, to provide communications services, including cable service
as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(8), as such section existed on January 1, 2019, an
information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as such section existed on
January 1, 2019, wireless services, or other one-way or two-way communications
service.
   COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK. A network used to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522, as such
section existed on January 1, 2019, an information service as defined in 47
U.S.C. 153, as such section existed on January 1, 2019, a telecommunications
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, as such section existed on January 1,
2019, or a wireless service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522, a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, or a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153, as such sections
existed on January 1, 2019. Communications service provider includes a wireless
provider.
   DECORATIVE POLE. A utility pole that is owned, managed, or operated by or on
behalf of the City, and which is specially designed and placed for aesthetic
purposes.
   DEPLOYMENT. Placement, construction, or modification of a small wireless
facility.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FEE. A one-time, nonrecurring charge, to be collected upon application.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Any prehistoric or historic district, site, building,
structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National
Register of Historic Places, in accordance with Stipulation VI.D.1.a (i) - (v)
of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement for Review of Effects on Historic
Properties for Certain Undertakings Approved by the Federal Communications
Commission codified at 47 C.F.R. Part 1, Appendix C, as such regulation existed
on January 1, 2019, or designated pursuant to state historic preservation law
if such designation exists at the time of application.
   LAW. Any federal, state, or local law, statute, common law, code, rule,
regulation, order, or ordinance.
   MAKE-READY WORK. All work, as reasonably determined by the City, required to
accommodate a small wireless facility on a utility pole, and to comply with all
the City's applicable codes. Such work includes, but is not limited to,
modification or replacement of utility poles or lines, installation of guys and
anchors, rearrangement of existing equipment, inspections, reasonable
consultant fees or expenses, permitting work, design, planning, construction,
materials, cost of removal (less any salvage value), tree trimming (other than
tree trimming performed for normal maintenance purposes), facility
construction, or conduit system clearing, but does not include ordinary
maintenance.
   MICROWIRELESS FACILITY. Any small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty-four (24) inches in length, fifteen (15) inches in width,
and twelve (12) inches in height and with any exterior antenna no longer than
eleven (11) inches.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Inspections, testings and/or repairs that
maintain the functional capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity of a
facility.
   PERMIT. A written authorization, in electronic or hard copy format required
by the City to perform an action, initiate, continue, or complete installation
of a small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or an existing support
structure, or to install, modify, or replace a utility pole or support
structure to support installation of a small wireless facility.
   PERMITTEE. An applicant that has received a permit under this Article, and
its successors and assignees.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or any other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district or any other governmental
entity providing electric service. Public power supplier includes a municipal
electric utility or a rural public power supplier.
   RATE. A recurring charge, collected on a regular basis such as annually.
   REPLACE or REPLACEMENT. In connection with an existing utility pole or
support structure, to replace (or the replacement of) the same with a new pole
or structure in conformance with this Article and any other applicable codes,
in order to address limitations of the existing pole or structure to
structurally support collocation of a small wireless facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, sidewalk, alley, dedicated utility easement, or similar property, but
not including a freeway as defined in §39-1302, the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways, or a private easement.
   RURAL PUBLIC POWER SUPPLIER. A public power district, a public power and
irrigation district, an electric cooperative, or an electric membership
association, that does not provide electric service to any City of the
metropolitan class, City of the primary class, or City of the first class.
   SHOT CLOCK. The period of time in which the City is required to act on an
application.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE ZONE. An area at a street intersection (or street and
railroad) in which nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of thirty (30)
inches and eight (8) feet above grade level within the triangular area formed
by the intersection of the nearest edges of the street paving or surface as
extended and a line connecting points along such street paving or surface which
is a distance of seventy-five (75) feet from the intersection of said streets.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. Any wireless facility that meets each of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities:
         (a)   Are mounted on structures fifty (50) feet or less in height
including the antennas; or
         (b)   Are mounted on structures no more than ten percent (10%) taller
than other adjacent structures;
      (2)   Each antenna associated with the deployment is no more than three
(3) cubic feet in volume;
      (3)   All other equipment associated with the structure, whether ground-
mounted or pole-mounted, is no more than twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in
volume;
      (4)   The facilities do not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. Part 17, as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019;
      (5)   The facilities are not located on tribal lands, as defined in 36
C.F.R. 800.16(x), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019; and
      (6)   The facilities do not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards specified in 47 C.F.R.
1.1307(b), as such regulation existed on January 1, 2019.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any structure such as a guyed or self-supporting tower,
billboard, building, or other existing or proposed structure designed to
support or capable of supporting wireless facilities other than a structure
designed solely for the collocation of small wireless facilities. "Support
structure" does not include a utility pole.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering or spectrum usage, the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design or site
location, can be implemented without a reduction in the functionality of the
small wireless facility.
   UTILITY POLE or POLE. A pole located in the right-of-way that is used for
wireline communications, lighting, the vertical portion of support structures
for traffic control signals or devices or a similar function, or for the
collocation of small wireless facilities and located in the right-of-way.
"Utility pole" does not include:
      (1)   Support structures;
      (2)   Any transmission infrastructure owned or operated by a public power
supplier or rural public power supplier; or
      (3)   Any distribution or communications infrastructure owned or operated
by a rural public power supplier.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.   (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables
wireless communications between user equipment and a communications network,
including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular power supply, and small back-up battery, regardless of technological
configuration.
      (2)   "Wireless facility" includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   "Wireless facility" does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within the equipment
which is collocated;
         (b)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures
or utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to, or directly
associated with, a particular antenna; or
         (c)   A wireline backhaul facility.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the State of Nebraska, when acting to
build or install wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless
facilities, or support structures, but that is not a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless services provider or a wireless infrastructure
provider when acting as a coapplicant for a wireless services provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services using licensed or unlicensed spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether mobile or at a fixed location, provided to
the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. An above-ground or underground facility used to
transport communications services from a wireless facility to a communications
network. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-603 APPLICABILITY.
   This Article shall apply to all deployments of small wireless facilities
(with the exception of collocations of wireless facilities on utility poles
owned, operated, or managed by a public power supplier) on rights-of-way or
other public or private property within the City and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction, as amended, annexed or extended from time to time, except as
specifically excluded in this section or in this Article. With respect to
deployments on rights-of-way which are owned by another jurisdiction, the City
shall coordinate its regulation under this Article with such jurisdiction, by
agreement or otherwise, so that only one of the jurisdictions regulates the
same. This Article shall not apply to any facility that was in existence and
authorized by an agreement with the City as of the effective date of this
Article. Notwithstanding this section, the shot clock for an application shall
be governed by this Article or by an existing agreement, whichever provides for
a shorter shot clock. Notwithstanding this section, application fees and yearly
rates shall be governed by this Article or by an existing agreement, whichever
provides for smaller fees or rates. Small wireless facilities shall be governed
by this Article, and not by other lease requirements of the City or the City's
Municipal Code. This Article shall not apply to the design, engineering,
construction, installation, or operation of any small wireless facility located
in the interior structure or upon the site of any college or university campus,
stadium, or athletic facility not owned or controlled by the City, other than
to comply with applicable codes. For an application submitted to the State of
Nebraska regarding a location within right-of-way or other property owned or
controlled by the state, to the extent that the state seeks a recommendation
from the City regarding such application, the City shall apply the location and
design standards of §8-611. The applicant for a location on such state right-
of-way or other property shall provide to the City a copy of the application
submitted to the state, but no application fee shall be due. This Article shall
not apply to a microwireless facility that is strung on a cable between
existing utility poles in compliance with the National Electrical Safety Code,
which may be installed, maintained and operated without a permit or fees;
provided, that standard rules regulating the excavation or closing of sidewalks
or streets shall apply to the same. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-604 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, maintain, or operate a small
wireless facility, unless such person shall have previously obtained a permit
under this Article from the City expressly authorizing such small wireless
facility; provided, however, that permits under the Article are not required
for collocation of small wireless facilities on utility poles owned, operated,
or managed by a public power supplier. It shall be unlawful for any person to
collocate a small wireless facility on or associated with an existing utility
pole or support structure, unless such person shall have previously obtained a
permit under this Article from the City expressly authorizing the attachment or
association of that specific small wireless facility. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct, install, replace, maintain, or operate a new utility
pole or support structure to which will be attached or associated a small
wireless facility, unless such person shall have previously obtained a permit
under this Article. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-605 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Form and content. Application for a permit under this Article shall be
filed with the City's Building and Zoning Department, on a form provided by
that Department. On or in addition to that form, an application shall include
the following:
      (1)   The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and e-mail
address, including emergency contact information for the applicant;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers, and e-mail addresses of
all consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
application;
      (3)   A description of the proposed work and the purposes and intent of
the proposed small wireless facility;
      (4)   If an applicant will collocate small wireless facilities on utility
poles owned, operated or managed by a public power supplier, then, as per
section 86-1244 RS Neb., the applicant shall provide the City with a
certificate from Omaha Public Power District or any other public power supplier
showing that it has entered into a "Negotiated Pole Attachment Agreement" for
any utility poles in the City's jurisdiction. For a utility pole or support
structure owned or controlled by a third party, the applicant shall provide
proof of approval of the specific plans by that third party;
      (5)   Detailed construction drawings regarding the proposed small
wireless facility, and any associated equipment and utility pole or support
structure. The drawings shall show the location, dimensions, elevations,
equipment specifications, and attachment methods for the small wireless
facility, all equipment, and the utility pole or support structure;
      (6)   To the extent the proposed small wireless facility involves
collocation on a utility pole or support structure, a structural report
performed by a duly licensed engineer evidencing that the pole or support
structure will structurally support the collocation (or that the pole or
support structure will be modified to meet structural requirements) in
accordance with applicable codes;
      (7)   For any new above ground antenna equipment, a conceptual rendering
of the equipment, including accurate visual depictions and locations, if not
included in the construction drawings;
      (8)   A full description of any make-ready work that the applicant
believes will need to be performed by the City on City-owned poles in
preparation for the proposed installation and use of the small wireless
facility, associated equipment and utility pole or support structure;
      (9)   The application fee as required by this Article;
      (10)   Bond and certificate of insurance as required by this Article. If
the bond is provided by the applicant's general contractor, then Applicant
shall furnish a copy of their agreement with said general contractor to the
City in which the relationship between the two is defined; and
      (11)   The application form shall include:
         (a)   Language providing for the indemnification of the City by the
applicant as required by this Article; and
         (b)   An attestation by the applicant that the small wireless facility
shall be operational for use by a wireless services provider within one (1)
year after the later of the completion of all make-ready work or the permit
issuance date, unless a delay is caused by lack of commercial power or
communications transport facilities to the site, in which case the deadline
shall be extended for up to nine (9) months.
         (c)   The applicant's signature on and submittal of the application
shall constitute agreement to divisions (a) and (b) above.
   (B)   Batching.
      (1)   An applicant may apply for more than one (1) but no more than five
(5) small wireless facilities in a single application. Application fees shall
be paid for as provided in this Article.
      (2)   Each small wireless facility within a consolidated application is
subject to individual review, except that the denial of one (1) or more small
wireless facilities in a consolidated application shall not delay processing of
any other small wireless facilities in the same application or be a basis upon
which to deny the consolidated application as a whole. If an applicant applies
to construct or collocate several small wireless facilities within the
jurisdiction of the City, the City shall:
         (a)   Allow the applicant, at the applicant's discretion, to file a
single set of documents that apply to all of the applicant's small wireless
facilities; and
         (b)   Render a decision regarding all of the applicant's small
wireless facilities in a single administrative action or proceeding.
   (C)   Replacement or modification. A permittee shall be required to file an
application and pay an application fee for the proposed replacement or
modification of an existing small wireless facility, antenna equipment, or
associated utility pole or support structure. In such case, the application
shall include updated drawings of the facilities showing such replacement or
modification. Such proposed replacement or modification shall be reviewed and
acted upon by the City as if it were an initial application. This division (C)
does not apply to the replacement of a small wireless facility with a small
wireless facility that is substantially similar in weight or windage or the
same size or smaller, in which case no permit, application, or fee is required.
   (D)   Shot clock. The City shall act on a filed application, and all
associated requests, on or before the expiration of the shot clock period.
      (1)   The shot clock period for an application is the sum of:
         (a)   Ninety (90) days, plus one (1) additional period of ten (10)
business days if requested in writing by the City prior to the expiration of
the ninety (90) days; plus
         (b)   Such additional number of days of the tolling period, if any,
pursuant to division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   Unless a written agreement between the applicant and the City
provides otherwise, the tolling period for an application, if any, is as set
forth below:
         (a)   If the City notifies the applicant in writing on or before the
twentieth (20th) day after submission that the application is incomplete, and
specifically identifies the missing documents or information, the shot clock
date calculation shall restart at zero (0) on the date on which the applicant
submits all the documents and information identified by the City to render the
application complete.
         (b)   Subsequent findings of incompleteness shall further toll the
shot clock from the time the City sends written notice of incompleteness until
the time the applicant provides the missing information.
         (c)   If the applicant submits new or additional documents or
information that include material changes not otherwise required by the City, a
new application and application fee shall be submitted.
      (3)   The shot clock deadline for an application is determined by
counting forward, beginning on the day after the date when the application was
submitted, by the number of calendar days of the shot clock period identified
pursuant to this division (D); provided, that if the deadline calculated in
this manner falls on a weekend or holiday, the deadline shall be the next
business day after such date. The term "business day" means any day that is not
a weekend day or holiday.
   (E)   Permit issuance. Approval of an application authorizes the permittee
to maintain and operate the small wireless facilities and any associated
utility pole covered by the permit for a period of five (5) years, subject to
applicable relocation requirements and the permittee's right to terminate at
any time. At the end of each such term, such permit shall be considered
automatically renewed for an equivalent duration so long as the permittee is in
compliance with applicable criteria of section 86-1237(5)(j) RS Neb. as such
criteria existed at the time the permit was issued. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-606 FEES.   
   (A)   Application fees.
      (1)   An application for a permit under this Article for the collocation
of a small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or support structure
shall be accompanied by an application fee in the amount of five hundred
dollars ($500) for up to five (5) small wireless facilities, plus one hundred
dollars ($100) for each additional small wireless facility.
      (2)   An application for a permit for one (1) new, modified, or
replacement utility pole or support structure intended to support one (1) or
more small wireless facilities, and for one (1) small wireless facility to be
placed on such pole or structure, shall be accompanied by an application fee of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250) per pole or structure.
   (B)   Annual rates. A permittee who does not pay the City any occupation
taxes pursuant to Chapter 10 of the City's Municipal Code and/or pursuant to
the City's Master Fee Ordinance, currently Ord. No. 1045 as amended, shall pay
to the City an annual rate of twenty dollars ($20) for each small wireless
facility attached to a utility pole in City right-of-way, and an annual rate of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250) for each small wireless facility located
anywhere else in City right-of-way or City property. A permittee who does pay
the City any occupation taxes pursuant to Chapter 10 of the City's Municipal
Code and/or pursuant to the City's Master Fee Ordinance, currently Ord. No.
1045 as amended, shall not be required to pay to the City an annual rate. The
annual rate shall be paid by or before January 1, in advance for the ensuing
year.
   (C)   Reimbursement of direct costs. If the applicant or permittee excavates
or damages City right-of-way or other City property and the City repairs such
excavation or damage, the applicant or permittee shall reimburse to the City
the actual cost of such repair, as provided in §8-610. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-607 INTERFERENCE, REMOVAL, AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   In the event that any facility of a permittee on City right-of-way or
City property obstructs or hinders the usual travel or public safety or
obstructs the legal use of such right-of-way or property by utilities or other
authorized users, the City may provide written notice to the permittee of such
interference and of the need to resolve such interference. In the event that
any such facility of the permittee causes any radio frequency interference to
any City facilities or other uses of City right-of-way or City property, the
City may notify the permittee in writing of such interference and the need to
resolve such interference. Upon service of any notice under this division, the
permittee shall remedy such interference within ninety (90) days or, in the
case of an emergency, within such shorter time period as directed by the City.
If such interference is not resolved in a timely manner, the permittee shall,
at its own expense, remove its facilities from that location. In such case, the
permittee may apply for the relocation of similar facilities at another
location, without payment of an application fee.
   (B)   Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the City, the
permittee shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
of its facilities, whenever the City has determined, in its sole discretion,
that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any City improvement in,
under or upon the public right-of-way. The permittee shall be responsible to
the City for any damages or penalties the City may incur as a result of the
permittee's failure to remove or relocate the facilities as required in this
division.
   (C)   The City retains the right and privilege to cut or move any facility
of the permittee located within the public right-of-way or on City property, as
the City may determine in its sole discretion to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public emergency. If circumstances permit, the City
shall notify the permittee and give the permittee an opportunity to move its
own facilities prior to cutting or removing the facilities. In all cases the
City shall notify the permittee after cutting or removing the facilities as
promptly as reasonably possible.
   (D)   The permittee may abandon its facilities at a location. The permittee
shall notify the City of abandonment of any facility at the time the decision
to abandon is made, but in no case shall such notification be made later than
thirty (30) days prior to abandonment. The permittee shall, within thirty (30)
days of such notice, remove its facilities at the permittee's own expense,
unless the City determines and states in writing, in its sole discretion, that
any part of the facilities may be abandoned in place. The permittee shall
remain solely responsible and liable for all of its facilities until they are
removed from the public right-of-way unless the City agrees in writing to take
ownership of the abandoned facilities. For the purpose of this division,
abandonment of facilities and cancellation of the related permit shall also be
deemed to have occurred after such facilities are not used for a period of one
(1) year.
   (E)   If the permittee fails to timely protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter any of its facilities
or remove any of its abandoned facilities as required in this section, the City
or its contractor may do so. In such case, the permittee shall pay all
reasonable costs related to such work. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-608 INDEMNIFICATION.
   In submitting an application and maintaining and operating its facilities,
the permittee agrees to indemnify, defend and hold the City harmless from all
claims, costs, damages, demands, suits, judgments, court costs and costs of
defense, including attorney fees, which arise out of, in whole or in part, the
permittee's acts or omissions pursuant to its permit or this Article, or which
arise out of, in whole or in part, the installation, construction, operation,
or maintenance of the permittee's facilities, whether or not any act or
omission complained of is authorized, allowed, or prohibited by the permit or
this Article. Permittee's indemnity shall not apply to any loss or damage
resulting from the negligence or willful misconduct of the City or its
employees, contractors, or agents. The application to be signed by the
applicant shall contain the indemnification language stated in this section.
(Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-609 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Upon and after application, the permittee of a permit under this
Article shall procure and thereafter continuously maintain for as long as any
permit in its favor remains in effect, at the permittee's expense, commercial
general liability insurance per ISO form or its equivalent with a limit of at
least two million dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence and at least two million
dollars ($2,000,000) general aggregate for bodily injury (including death) and
property damage, including explosion, collapse and underground property damage.
Upon receipt of notice from its insurer(s), the permittee shall provide the
City with thirty (30) days prior written notice of any prospective cancellation
of the policy, unless the required coverage is immediately replaced. A
certificate of insurance shall be provided with the application. The policy
shall be available for review by the City upon request. The policy shall
include the City as additional insured as its interest may appear under this
Article.
   (B)   Upon and after application, the permittee of a permit (or its general
contractor) located on right-of-way or other City property shall provide and
maintain in effect a bond naming permittee (or its general contractor) as
obligor, with a surety, in favor of the City, in the minimum amount of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000), to cover all permitted sites of the permittee. The
surety of the bond shall be a surety company licensed to do business in
Nebraska. The bond shall be conditioned:
      (1)   That the permittee and its successors or assigns shall indemnify,
defend, and hold the City harmless from all claims, costs, damages, demands,
suits, judgments, and court costs and costs of defense, including attorney
fees, which arise out of, in whole or in part, the permittee's acts or
omissions pursuant to its permit or this Article, or which arise out of, in
whole or in part, the installation, construction, operation, or maintenance of
the permittee's facilities, whether or not any act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed, or prohibited by the permit or this Article;
      (2)   For the maintenance of the sidewalk or public right-of-way;
      (3)   For the compliance with all applicable laws regarding the permitted
facilities and the use of the City right-of-way or other property; and
      (4)   For the return of the sidewalk, street, right-of-way or other
public property to its condition prior to the permit. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-610  PERMITTEE DUTIES.
   As a condition of the issuance of a permit under this Article, the permittee
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Small wireless facilities and associated communications facilities,
utility poles and support structures shall be located, installed and maintained
so that they do not materially endanger the lives, health or safety of persons,
or materially interfere with any public improvements the City or other
governmental entities (including any traffic control devices or signs, gas,
electric, storm water, sanitary sewer or water utilities or enterprises) have
in place or may deem proper to make. The location, installation or maintenance
of the small wireless facility and associated communications facilities,
utility pole and support structure shall not hinder or obstruct the usual
travel or public safety on right-of-way, or obstruct the legal use of right-of-
way by utilities or the safe operation of their systems or provision of
service.
   (B)   All construction, excavation, maintenance and repair work done by the
permittee shall be done in a safe, workmanlike and expeditious manner which
minimizes inconvenience and danger to the City, the general public and
individuals. All such construction, excavation, maintenance and repair work
done by the permittee shall comply with all applicable codes and laws. The City
shall have the right to inspect all construction or excavation work to ensure
compliance with applicable codes, laws, and permits, and may order the
permittee to perform corrective work. All right-of-way or other City property
disturbed by permittees' activities shall be promptly restored by the permittee
at its expense to its former condition, subject to inspection by the City. If
the permittee fails to make required repairs, the City may give the permittee
written notice of the required repairs. If after such notice the permittee
fails to make the required repairs within fourteen (14) days, the City may make
the repairs, and the permittee shall pay the City the reasonable documented
cost of such repairs. The City shall grant the permittee a ten (10) day
extension to perform repairs if requested by the permittee within the original
fourteen (14) day period. In the event of immediate threat to life, safety, or
to prevent serious injury, the City may immediately undertake to restore the
site and then notify the permittee and charge the permittee for all reasonable
restoration costs.
   (C)   The permittee shall install, construct, maintain and operate its small
wireless facilities and associated communications facilities, utility poles,
and support structures in a safe manner providing reasonable protection against
injury or damage to any and all persons or property.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specified in the permit, the permittee shall erect a
barrier around the perimeter of any excavation and provide appropriate traffic
control devices, signs and lights to protect, warn and guide the public
(vehicular and pedestrian) through the work zone. The manner and use of these
devices shall be described within a traffic control plan in accordance with the
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. The permittee shall maintain all
barriers and other traffic control and safety devices related to an open
excavation until the excavation is filled and finished to the satisfaction of
the City, or as otherwise directed by the City.
   (E)   All construction and use of the small wireless facilities and
associated communication facilities, utility poles, and support structures
shall comply with the permit and the approved final plans and specifications.
Upon completion of installation of the small wireless facilities and associated
communication facilities, utility poles and support structures, the permittee
shall notify the City's Building and Zoning Department within three (3)
business days of the completion of said work so that the City may conduct an
inspection as provided for above. The City will perform any such inspection
within five (5) business days. Any construction that does not conform to the
permit and the approved final plans and specifications shall be reconstructed
or repaired to conform to the permit and the approved final plans and
specification within five (5) business days. If the construction and use of the
small wireless facilities and associated communication facilities, utility
poles, and support structures continues to fail to conform to the permit and
the approved final plans and specifications, the City may suspend the
associated permit until such time as the work is in conformance.
   (F)   If the applicant will have work performed by someone other than its
own employees, then the applicant shall be responsible for all work performed
by its agents or contractors. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
8-611   LOCATION AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All facilities in the public right-of-way must comply with all applicable
provisions in this section.
   (A)   All small wireless facilities shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   If technically feasible, antennas should be top-mounted or side-
mounted and concealed within a radome (a structural, weatherproof enclosure
that protects an antenna and is constructed of material that minimally
attenuates the signal transmitted/received by such antenna) or otherwise
concealed to the extent feasible. Cable connections, antenna mounts and other
hardware should also be concealed. The radome or other concealment elements
must be non-reflective and painted or otherwise colored to reasonably match the
existing support structure.
      (2)   Each antenna shall be no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume.
All other equipment associated with a small wireless facility, whether ground-
mounted or pole-mounted, shall be no more than twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in
volume.
      (3)   The color of the small wireless facility shall reasonably match the
color of the utility pole or support structure upon which it is attached.
      (4)   There shall be no advertising or signs on the small wireless
facility, except for equipment logos, specifications, or maintenance
instructions that are generally not readable from the ground or from ten (10)
feet away, and except for signage required by the FCC.
      (5)   A small wireless facility shall be mounted at a height no more than
the greater of: (a) fifty (50) feet, including the antenna; or (b) five (5)
feet above an existing utility pole in place as of the effective date of this
Article and located within five hundred (500) feet in the same right-of-way.
      (6)   Cantennas shall be no more than twelve (12) inches in diameter and
forty-eight (48) inches in height.
      (7)   If an antenna of the small wireless facility is side-mounted, it
shall not protrude more than eighteen (18) inches outside the pole, and shall
not exceed the height of the pole.
      (8)   The small wireless facility and all associated equipment mounted to
the outside of a pole or support structure shall be at least eight (8) feet
above grade, excluding the disconnect switch.
      (9)   Cabling shall be located within conduit or inside the pole or
support structure to as great a degree as possible, and otherwise shall be as
flush to the pole or support structure as possible. Any support arms shall use
flanges or channels to conceal exterior cables and passive radiofrequency gear.
Shrouds, sleeves, or ninety (90) degree connectors shall be used to prevent
exposed cables.
      (10)   A small wireless facility shall include a disconnect switch. The
disconnect switch shall be no more than twelve (12) cubic inches in size, shall
be painted the same color as the pole or support structure, and shall be
mounted on the pole or support structure at a maximum height of six (6) feet
above grade, unless otherwise directed by the City.
      (11)   Unless otherwise required by the City, or for compliance with FAA
or FCC regulations, small wireless facilities shall not include any lights or
lighting.
      (12)   A small wireless facility may be placed on an existing utility
pole that exists within a sight triangle zone as of the effective date of this
Article; provided, that any replacement pole replacing such an existing utility
pole shall be relocated outside of the sight triangle zone.
   (B)   A new or replacement utility pole for a small wireless facility,
referred to in this division as a "new pole," shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The new pole shall meet the generally applicable standards for such
poles as established by the owner of such poles.
      (2)   The new pole shall comply with applicable codes of general
applicability.
      (3)   The new pole shall be reasonably similar in color, design, size,
scale, material, style, and arm structure to the nearest adjacent existing
poles; provided, that there shall be no new installations of wooden poles.
      (4)   A new pole replacing an existing decorative pole shall conform to
all non-discriminatory design aesthetic features of the existing decorative
pole.
      (5)   The height of a new pole shall not exceed the greater of: (a) five
(5) feet above the tallest existing utility pole in place as of the effective
date of this Article located within five hundred (500) feet of the new pole in
the same right-of-way; or (b) fifty (50) feet above ground level.
      (6)   The diameter of the new pole shall be no more than fourteen (14)
inches; provided, that the bottom sixty-six (66) inches of the new pole may be
no more than eighteen (18) inches in diameter.
      (7)   The new pole shall be in alignment with existing trees, utility
poles, and streetlights.
      (8)   The new pole shall be an equal distance between trees when
possible, with a minimum of fifteen (15) feet separation such that no proposed
disturbance shall occur within the critical root zone of any tree.
      (9)   The new pole shall be placed with appropriate clearance from
existing utilities, to accommodate the passage of traffic in the right-of-way
and any work done on or around the facilities.
      (10)   The new pole shall be placed outside of a thirty (30) foot clear
sight triangle zone where pedestrian trails, sidewalks, and streets intersect.
      (11)   The new pole shall be placed so as not to be located along the
frontage of a Historic District.
      (12)   The new pole shall not be placed within fifty (50) feet of the
apron of a fire station or other emergency service responder facility.
      (13)   In accordance with existing standards for street light poles, and
provided it does not result in an effective prohibition of service, a new pole
shall be located no closer than one hundred fifty (150) feet from an existing
street light pole on an arterial or collector street, and no closer than one
hundred (100) feet from an existing street light pole on a local or residential
street. This requirement shall not prevent the replacement of light poles that
are in place as of the effective date of this Article that do not meet this
spacing requirement.
      (14)   A new pole shall not be located within seven (7) feet of an
electrical conductor unless the applicant obtains the written consent of the
entity that owns or manages the electrical conductor.
   (C)   All small wireless facilities, and all of their associated equipment,
ground equipment, communications facilities, and utility poles and support
structures, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   So as not to impede or impair public safety or the legal use of the
right-of-way by the traveling public, ground mounted equipment must be
installed below grade or concealed in a ground-mounted cabinet. Ground mounted
cabinets must comply with the following design standards:
         (a)   In areas with curb and gutter, ground mounted equipment shall
not be located closer than four (4) feet from the pavement or face of curb, and
shall not be located closer than two (2) feet from a sidewalk, bike lane, or
shared-use path as measured to the nearest part of the equipment.
         (b)   In areas with open ditches, ground mounted equipment shall be
located at least one (1) foot inside the right-of-way line.
         (c)   Ground mounted equipment shall be placed outside of all sight
triangle zones.
         (d)   Ground mounted equipment locations shall be located a minimum of
twelve (12) feet from driveway aprons as measured parallel to the right-of-way.
         (e)   Ground mounted equipment shall be consistent with any applicable
design standards of the Springfield Guidelines and Regulations for Driveway
Locations, Design and Construction, which are incorporated herein for these
specific purposes only.
         (f)   Ground mounted equipment must be secured to a concrete
foundation or slab with a breakaway design allowing the equipment to disconnect
from the foundation or slab in the event of collision or impact.
         (g)   Screening of ground mounted equipment with a variety of plant
material may be required based on the characteristics of the surrounding area.
         (h)   All proposed ground mounted equipment shall be subject to the
City's landscaping installation and maintenance requirements as set forth in
City Zoning Regulation 9.03 Landscaping Requirements and 9.06 Installation and
Maintenance of Landscaping and Screening and based on the surrounding context,
and where required, for appropriateness of the proposed planting plan and plant
specifications.
      (2)   Such items shall not materially interfere with sight lines or clear
zones for air or land transportation or pedestrians.
      (3)   Such items shall not obstruct or hinder the usual travel or public
safety on right-of-way, or obstruct the legal use of right-of-way by utilities
or the safe operation of their systems or provision of service.
      (4)   Such items shall not violate or materially interfere with
compliance with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or similar
federal or state standards regarding pedestrian access or movement.
      (5)   Such items shall comply with applicable codes of general
applicability. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
§ 8-612 MAKE-READY WORK.
   (A)   In its application, the applicant shall identify any make-ready work
proposed to be performed by the City. Within one hundred twenty (120) days
after receipt of a completed application, the City shall provide a preliminary
good faith estimate of the cost of such make-ready work to be paid by the
applicant to the City. The applicant shall pay to the City the amount of the
estimated cost. Make-ready work to be performed by the City shall be completed
within ninety (90) days after written acceptance of the good faith estimate by
the applicant. Upon the City's completion of the make-ready work, the applicant
shall pay the City, or the City shall refund to the applicant, as the case may
be, the difference between the cost estimate paid and the actual cost. Total
fees shall not exceed actual costs of the make-ready work. Alternatively, the
City and the applicant may agree that the applicant or a party other than the
City may perform the make-ready work, subject to the City's approval before and
after the work.
   (B)   The City may require replacement of the utility pole if it determines
that the collocation would make the utility pole structurally unsound. The
person owning the utility pole shall not require more make-ready work than
required to meet applicable codes and industry standards. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/
21)
§ 8-613 ASSIGNMENT.
   A permittee may assign its rights to a permit, small wireless facility, and
associated equipment or structures it owns, to an assignee. Such assignment
shall not be effective until the applicant and the assignee sign and file with
the City's Building and Zoning Department a notice of assignment, containing:
   (A)   The assignee's name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address,
including emergency contact information; and
   (B)   Exact location of all small wireless facilities and associated
equipment or structures being assigned. (Ord. No. 1067, 6/1/21)
Article 7. Penal Provision
   
8-701   Violations; Penalty
§ 8-701 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500)
for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every
twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 495, 7/
5/00; 1067, 6/1/21)
CHAPTER 9: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article
      
A
rticle 1. Building Inspector
      
A
rticle 2. Building Code
      
A
rticle 3. Plumbing Code
      
A
rticle 4. Electrical Code
      
A
rticle 5. Swimming Pools
      
A
rticle 6. Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards
      
A
rticle 7. Unsafe Buildings
      
A
rticle 8. Penal Provisions
Article 1. Building Inspector
Section
   
9-101   Building Inspector; Power and Authority
   
9-102   Building Inspector; Right of Entry
   
9-103   Building Inspector; Permit Limitation
   
9-104   Building Inspector; Time of Inspection
   
9-105   Building Inspector; Appeal from Decision
   
9-106   Building Inspector; Building Permits
   
9-106.01   Building Permits; Duplicate to County Assessor
   
9-107   Building Inspector; Unfinished Buildings
   
9-108   Building Inspector; Noxious Uses
   
9-109   Plans, Plats and the Like; Municipal Officials; Duty
§ 9-101 BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the Municipal official who shall have the
duty of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He
shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the
Municipality as often as necessary to insure compliance with all Municipal
ordinances. He shall have the power and authority to order all work stopped on
any construction, alteration, or relocation which violates any provisions
prescribed herein. He shall issue permission to continue any construction,
alteration, or relocation when he is satisfied that no provision will be
violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written
stop order within one (1) hour. Such written order may be served by any
Municipal Policeman.
§ 9-102 BUILDING INSPECTOR; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
§ 9-103 BUILDING INSPECTOR; PERMIT LIMITATION.  
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six (6) months of the date thereof, or if the construction shall be
discontinued for a period of six (6) months, the permit shall be void. Before
work can be resumed, a new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form
as an original permit.
§ 9-104 BUILDING INSPECTOR; TIME OF INSPECTION.  
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his
agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure and
shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed, or shall
notify the permit holder, or his agent that the work fails to comply with the
requirements of the Municipal Code: Foundation inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking, and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys, and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work, or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
§ 9-105 BUILDING INSPECTOR; APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of this Chapter
has been wrongly interpreted by the Building Inspector; that the time allowed
for compliance with any order of the Building Inspector is too short; or that
conditions peculiar to a particular building make it unreasonably difficult to
meet the literal requirements prescribed by this Chapter and the Building
Inspector, the owner, his agent, or the occupant may file a notice of appeal
within thirty (30) days after the decision or order of the Building Inspector
has been made. The Governing Body shall sit and act as the Municipal Board of
Appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by this Code to achieve that end. A copy of
any variance so granted shall be sent to both the Building Inspector and the
applicant.
§ 9-106 BUILDING INSPECTOR; BUILDING PERMITS.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
relocate, enlarge, or make an addition to any building or dwelling, or cause
the same to be done, shall file with the Municipal Clerk an application for a
building permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished
by the Municipal Clerk for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth
the legal description of the land upon which the construction or relocation is
to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions,
the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such
other information as may be requested thereon. The permit fee, as set by
resolution of the Governing Body, shall accompany the application. The
application, plans, and specifications so filed with the Municipal Clerk shall
be checked and examined by the Building Inspector and if they are found to be
in conformity with the requirements of this Chapter and all other ordinances
applicable thereto, he shall authorize the Municipal Clerk to issue the said
applicant a permit. Whenever there is a discrepancy between permit application
procedures contained herein and those contained in any building code adopted by
reference, the provisions contained herein shall govern. (Ref. 17-130 through
17-132, 17-550, 17-1001 RS Neb.)
§ 9-106.01 BUILDING PERMITS; DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the City’s jurisdiction, and the improvement is two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or more, a duplicate of such permit
shall be issued to the County Assessor. (Ref. 18-1743 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 218,
4/1/80) (Amended by Ord. No. 638, 1/6/04)
§ 9-107 BUILDING INSPECTOR; UNFINISHED BUILDINGS.
   No buildings or structures shall be allowed to remain in an unfinished
condition in the Municipality for a period of more than nine (9) months. A
basement structure without living accommodations above it shall be considered
to be in an unfinished condition.
§ 9-108 BUILDING INSPECTOR; NOXIOUS USES.  
   No buildings or structures or premises, or part thereof, in any part of the
Municipality shall be used for any trade, industry, or other purpose that is
detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare. Such a noxious or
offensive use is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance. (Ref. 28-1016
RS Neb.)
§ 9-109 PLANS, PLATS AND THE LIKE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS; DUTY.
    (Repealed 2006)
Article 2. Building Code
Section
   
9-201   Building Code; Adopted by Reference
§ 9-201 BUILDING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction, and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated, and
converted, the 2012 International Building Code, as issued by the International
Code Council, the 2012 International Residential Code, as issued by the
International Code Council, the 2012 International Mechanical Code, as issued
by the International Code Council, the 2012 International Fuel Gas Code, as
issued by the International Code Council, the 2012 International Plumbing Code,
as issued by the International Code Council, the 2009 International Energy
Conservation Code, as issued by the International Code Council, the 2017
National Electric Code, as issued by the National Fire Protection Association,
Inc., and the Building Code Amendments, Deletions and Changes as shown in
Exhibits A and B to Ordinance 942, passed 2/7/17, and printed in book or
pamphlet form is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended
editions as though printed in full herein insofar as said Codes do not conflict
with the Statutes of the State of Nebraska. Three (3) copies of said Codes are
on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and are available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of said Codes shall be
controlling throughout the Municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Ref. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, 19-922 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 298, 3/1/
88; 374, 3/21/95; 594, 1/21/03; 674, 6/21/06; 709, 3/7/06; 796, 10/4/11; 861,
8/5/14; 942, 2/7/17; 974, 4/17/18)
Article 3. Plumbing Code
Section
   
9-301   Plumbing Code; Adopted by Reference
   
9-302   Building Regulations; Prohibition of Lead Pipes, Solder, and Flux
   
9-303   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Definitions
   
9-304   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Policy and Purpose
   
9-305   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Surveys and Investigations
   
9-306   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Where Protection Is Required
   
9-307   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Type of Protection Required
   
9-308   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Backflow Prevention Devices
   
9-309   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Booster Pumps
   
9-310   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Yard Hydrants
   
9-311   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Fire Suppression System
   
9-312   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Violations
   
9-313   Backflow/backsiphonage Prevention; Approval Standards
§ 9-301 PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe and stable
installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the installation
of plumbing and heating shall be as found in 2012 International Plumbing Code,
as issued by the International Code Council, and all amended editions as though
printed in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the Statutes
of the State of Nebraska. All prior ordinances in conflict herewith shall be
and are hereby repealed. Three (3) copies of the Plumbing Code are on file at
the office of the Municipal Clerk and are available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. The provisions of the 2012 International Plumbing Code, as
issued by the International Code Council, shall be controlling throughout the
Municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-
902, 19-922 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 299, 3/1/88; 376, 3/21/95; 797, 10/
4/11; 943, 2/7/17)
§ 9-302 BUILDING REGULATIONS; PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER, AND FLUX.
   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   For purposes of this section, lead free shall mean:
      A.   Solders and flux - not more than two-tenths percent (.2%) lead, and
      B.   Pipe and pipe fittings - not more than eight percent (8%) lead.
(Ref. 71-5301 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 300, 5/3/88)
[Editor’s Note: Sections 9-303 through 9-313 were adopted in their entirety by
Ordinance No. 352, passed 4/20/93]
§ 9-303 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; DEFINITIONS.
   1.   DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this Article.
      a.   Air gap separation means the unobstructed vertical distance through
the free atmosphere between the lowest opening of any pipe or faucet supplying
water to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of
the said receptacle. An approved air-gap shall be at least double the diameter
of the supply pipe, measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the
receptacle and, in no case less than one inch.
      b.   Antisiphon vacuum breaker is a device which restricts the backflow
of water into a potable water system by a simple check valve. The vacuum is
broken by allowing air to enter upstream of the check valve.
      c.   Approved means that a backflow prevention device or method has been
accepted by the Manager as being suitable for the intended use.
      d.   Auxiliary water system means any water supply system available to
the premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by such system. These auxiliary water systems may include water from
another owner’s public water supply system; polluted or contaminated water,
process fluids; used water; or other sources of water which the owner of the
public water supply system does not have sanitary control.
      e.   Backflow or backsiphonage means the flow of water or other liquids,
mixtures, or substances into the water distribution system from any other
source than the intended source of the potable water supply.
      f.   Backflow prevention device means any device, method, or type of
construction intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. Devices
such as an “Approved Air-gap”, “Double Check Valve Assembly”, “Antisiphon
Vacuum Breaker” or a “Reduced Pressure Principle Devices” can be used which
have been approved by the Manager.
      g.   Consumer means the owner or person in control of any premises
supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
      h.   Consumer’s water supply system means any water supply system,
located on the consumer’s premises, supplied by or in any manner connected to a
public water supply system. A household plumbing system is considered to be a
consumer’s water supply system. A fire suppression system is also considered a
consumer’s water supply system.
      i.    Contamination means an impairment of the quality of the water by
sewage, or waste to a degree which could cause an actual hazard to the public
health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   j.   Cross connection means any arrangement whereby contamination due to
backflow or backsiphonage can occur.
   k.   Degree of hazard is a term derived from an evaluation of the potential
risk to health and the adverse effects upon the potable water system.
   l.   Double check valve assembly means an assembly composed of two single,
independently acting, check valves including one hundred percent closing
shutoff ball valves located at each end of the assembly and suitable
connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   m.   Health hazard means any condition, device, or practice in a water
system or its operation that creates, a real or potential danger to the health
and well being of the consumer.
   n.   Interchangeable connection means an arrangement or device that will
allow alternate but not simultaneous uses of two sources of water.
   o.   Manager means the Manager of the Springfield Municipal Water System or
his or her authorized representative.
   p.   Non-potable water means water not safe for drinking, personal, or
culinary use, or which does not meet the requirements of the Nebraska
Department of Health.
   q.   Owner means the person delivering water through a public water supply
system. The owner is City of Springfield.
   r.   Person means the state, any political subdivision, public or private
corporation, individual, partnership, or other legal entity. When the term he,
or his is used, it shall mean any male or female person.
   s.   Plumbing hazard means a plumbing type cross connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by air-gap separation
or backflow prevention devices.
   t.   Pollution means the presence in water of any foreign substance
(organic, inorganic, or biological) that degrades the quality of water to a
degree which does not necessarily cause an actual hazard to the public health
but which does adversely and unreasonably affect such waters for any desired
use.
   u.   Pollution hazard means a condition through which an aesthetically
objectionable or degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the
public water supply system or the consumer’s water supply system.
   v.   Potable water means water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary,
and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the Nebraska Department of
Health.
   w.   Public water supply system means a water supply system designed and
intended to provide potable water to a designated consumer. The water supply
shall include the water supply source and distribution piping network. The
water supply source is defined as any artificial or natural accumulation of
water used to supply the potable water system. The distribution piping network
includes all piping, pumping and treatment devices used to convey an adequate
quality and quantity of potable water to the consumer.
   x.   Reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device means a device
containing a minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between two
check valves. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the
pressure between these two check valves. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include one hundred percent closing shutoff ball valves
located at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with
properly located test cocks.
   y.   Service connection means the terminal end of a service line from the
public water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then
the service connection means the downstream end of the meter.
   z.   System hazard means any water supplied by the public water supply
system to a consumer’s water supply system after it has passed through the
service connection and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water
supplier.
   2.   RESPONSIBILITY. The consumer as defined in this Article, if requested
by the Manager, shall designate an individual or individuals, who shall be
responsible for contact and communications with the Manager in matters relating
to system alteration and construction, monitoring and sampling, maintenance,
operation, record keeping, and reporting, as required by law and these
regulations. Any change in assigned responsibilities or designated individuals
shall be promptly reported to the Manager.
   3.   TITLE. Springfield City Code sections
9-303 through
9-313 and any amendments pertaining thereto, shall be known as the backflow
prevention ordinance.
§ 9-304 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   1.   The purpose of sections
9-303 through
9-313 is to protect the public water supply system of the City of Springfield
from the possibility of contamination by isolating real or potential sources of
contamination or pollution which may backflow into the public water supply
system. Sections
9-305 through
9-313 provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross connection
control which will systematically and effectively prevent the contamination or
pollution of the potable water supply systems.
   2.   The Manager shall be responsible for the implementation of the backflow
prevention program as outlined within this Article. If in the judgment of the
Manager an approved backflow prevention device is required for the safety of
the public water supply system then the Manager shall give notice in writing to
the consumer to install said device at each recommended location. The Manager
shall inspect and approve all installations of the required backflow prevention
devices. The costs for purchasing, installing, and maintaining a backflow
prevention device shall be the responsibility and sole expense of the consumer.
The consumer shall install the backflow prevention device. Immediately after
installation, the backflow prevention device shall be inspected by the Manager.
Annual testing of all double check valves and reduced pressure zone devices
shall be inspected by the Manager. If deemed necessary by the Manager that
maintenance or repairs are necessary, the owner shall be contacted and issued
an order to make all necessary repairs or maintenance. The owner shall complete
all maintenance or repairs within thirty (30) days; if not, the owner shall be
considered in violation of the backflow ordinance and will be subject to
disconnection of the service as provided in section
9-312.
   3.   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection,
containing cross connections to a public water supply system or a consumer’s
potable water supply system unless such cross connections are abated or
controlled in accordance with this Article, and as required by the laws and
regulations of the Nebraska Department of Health.
   4.   For the purposes of this backflow prevention ordinance, whenever the
Manager is to make any decision or interpretation, or whenever reference is
made to the fact that the Manager is to exercise judgment, such decision,
interpretation or judgment shall be in accordance with the provisions of this
backflow prevention ordinance, and any other applicable provisions of the
Springfield City Code, and state and federal law or regulation.
§ 9-305 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS. 
   1.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct or
cause to be conducted, periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises
as necessary to determine whether there are actual or potential cross
connections in the consumer’s water supply system. The Manager shall have the
authority to conduct or cause to be conducted periodic surveys and
investigations, of a frequency as determined by the Manager, of water use
practices within a consumer’s premises to determine whether there are actual or
potential cross connections to the consumer’s water supply system through which
contaminants or pollutants could backflow into the public water supply system.
The Manager may conduct these surveys to provide information in determining
what level of protection will be necessary to protect the public health and
safety.
   2.   On request by the Manager the consumer shall furnish the Manager
information on water use practices within the consumer’s premises. If the
consumer refuses to submit the proper information or to cooperate in obtaining
the proper information, the Manager shall treat the premises as if no
appropriate cross connection survey has been completed, and in such event the
consumer shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention device as
required to section
9-306.
   3.   The Manager shall have the right to enter a premises served by the
public water supply system at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
surveys and investigations of water use practices within the premises. In order
to inspect a premise, the Manager shall give notice setting forth a proposed
date and time to the consumer at least ten (10) days in advance. If the
consumer cannot make the premises available for inspection at the proposed date
and time, the consumer shall contact the Manager and arrange for another date
and time for the inspection. If the Manager and the consumer cannot agree on a
date and time, then the Manager shall treat the premises as if no appropriate
cross connection survey has been completed, and in such event the consumer
shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention device as required
to section 9-306.
   4.   The City Council is hereby appointed as a Hearing Board to hear
differences between the Manager and the consumer on matters concerning
interpretation and execution of the provisions of this Article by the Manager.
Any consumer aggrieved by being required to pay the expense of installing,
furnishing, and or maintaining a backflow prevention device may, within
fourteen (14) days of the act or event causing the grievance, request a hearing
in writing. City Council shall schedule the matter for hearing within thirty
(30) days, and provide written notice of the meeting by first class mail to the
consumer. The notice shall be mailed to the consumer at least seven (7) and not
more than twenty-one (21) days before the hearing. At the hearing the consumer
shall first state the nature of the grievance, and the Manager shall be
entitled to respond thereto, whereupon the City Council shall render its
decision which will be binding upon the consumer and the Manager.
§ 9-306 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.  
   1.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s water
supply system when in the judgment of the Manager a health, plumbing, pollution
or system hazard exists.
   2.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed when the
following conditions are found by the Manager to exist:
      a.   Premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as to
create an actual or potential hazard to a public water supply system. This
shall include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or
waters originating from a public water supply system which are no longer under
the sanitary control of the owner;
      b.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the Manager, are not correctable, or there exist intricate plumbing
arrangements which made it impracticable to determine whether or not cross
connections exist.
      c.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey;
      d.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or re-established;
      e.   Premises having more than one customer service connection which
could constitute a potential cross connection.
   3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water supply system serving the following types of
facilities unless the Manager determines that no health, pollution, or system
hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      a.   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing and convalescent
homes, medical buildings;
      b.   Testing laboratories, film laboratories, film development
facilities;
      c.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or storm water
pumping stations;
      d.   Food or beverage processing plants;
      e.   Chemical plants;
      f.   Metal de-greasing, plating industries, machine tool plants, dye and
metal processing or productions;
      g.   Chemical and petroleum processing or storage plants;
      h.   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
      i.   Lawn irrigation systems and swimming pools;
      j.   Laundries and dry cleaners;
      k.   Packing houses;
      l.   Power plants;
      m.   Premises having radioactive materials such as laboratories,
industries, hospitals;
      n.   Rendering plants;
      o.   Premises having water recirculating system as used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      p.   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feedyards, stables, rodeo
grounds, stockyards, pet grooming, salons;
      q.   Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors, health clubs;
      r.   Fire suppressions systems;
      s.   Multi-storied buildings greater than three (3) stories in height;
      t.   Schools, universities, colleges;
      u.   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross connection.
§ 9-307 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.  
   1.   The type of protection required under section
9-306 (1) and
9-306 (2) of this Article shall depend on the degree of hazard that exists as
follows:
      a.   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where a public water
supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could cause a system
hazard or health hazard;
      b.   An approved double check valve assembly shall be installed where a
public water supply system may be contaminated with any substance that could
cause a pollution hazard;
      c.   An approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device
shall be installed at the service connection where there exists a plumbing
hazard;
      d.   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements
or other prohibitions it is impossible or impractical to make a complete cross
connection survey of the consumer’s potable water system, a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed at the service
connection.
   2.   An approved antisiphon vacuum breaker may be used as a backflow
prevention device where it is not subjected to back pressures. This device
shall not be used for applications where water flow is expected to be
continuous for twelve (12) or more hours. The device shall be installed ahead
of the potential source of contamination on the discharge side of the last
control valve. It shall be placed at least twelve inches (12") above the
highest point reached by any water passing through the potential source of
contamination. Typically this type of device is used for such equipment as lawn
sprinklers, water cooled compressors, or other water cooled equipment.
§ 9-308 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   1.   Any approved backflow prevention device required by section
9-306 shall be installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Manager.
The consumer, at his sole expense, shall obtain and install said approved
backflow prevention device(s) within ninety (90) days of notice and as directed
by the Manager.
   2.   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the Manager prior to
the effective date of this rule and which are properly maintained shall, except
for inspection, testing, and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of section 9-306 (1) but only if the Manager determines that the
devices will satisfactorily protect the public water supply system. One hundred
percent closing shut off ball valves for testing shall be provided on existing
backflow prevention devices, if deemed necessary for proper testing by the
Manager. If deemed necessary by the Manager that an existing backflow
prevention device requires replacement, it shall be replaced with an approved
backflow prevention device.
§ 9-309 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; BOOSTER PUMPS.  
   1.   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection to any
premises where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within such premises, unless such booster pump is equipped with a low pressure
cut-off designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) pounds per square
inch gauge or less.
   2.   It shall be the duty of the water customer to maintain the low pressure
cut-off device in proper working order.
§ 9-310 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; YARD HYDRANTS.  
   1.   The installation of yard hydrants where water is available or
accessible for drinking or culinary purposes and which have drip openings below
ground surface, is prohibited unless such hydrants are equipped with an
approved device to prevent entrance of ground water into chambers connected
with the water supply.
   2.   Yard hydrants or hose bibs which would be used by the consumer to
provide water to mix pesticides, fertilizer, or other chemicals, for direct use
or aerial application to surface areas shall be equipped with an antisiphon
vacuum breaker.
   3.   All underground lawn and garden sprinkler systems shall be equipped
with an approved backflow prevention device.
§ 9-311 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM.
   1.   All proposed installations of fire suppressions systems shall be
reviewed by the Manager to determine the appropriate type of backflow
prevention device(s) required.
   2.   All proposed fire suppression systems requiring an antifreeze solution
shall use a pharmaceutical grade antifreeze. The consumer shall provide to the
Manager a certification identifying the type of pharmaceutical grade antifreeze
which shall be used. A double check valve backflow prevention device shall be
installed in an approved manner.
   3.   A double check valve of an approved type shall be installed on all
proposed fire suppressions systems not utilizing antifreeze, but this may be
done only when there are no other cross connections.
   4.   All existing fire suppressions systems shall meet the requirements of
subsections (2) or (3) above, whichever applies. An inspection by a certified
fire suppression specialist shall be done to determine whether pharmaceutical
grade antifeeze(s) have been utilized. This shall be done at the expense of the
consumer. If it can not be certified that only pharmaceutical grade antifreezes
have been used, then a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device
shall be installed as approved by the Manager. This also shall be done at the
expense of the consumer.
   5.   In the event cross connections, such as those found in using auxiliary
water supply systems or in providing other water additives such as foaming
agents are necessary for the proper operation of the fire suppression system,
then a reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device shall be installed in
an approved manner.
§ 9-312 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; VIOLATIONS.
   1.   The Manager shall deny or discontinue, after notice to the consumer
thereof, the water service to any premises wherein:
      a.   Any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed or maintained in a manner acceptable to the Manager;
      b.   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
by-passed;
      c.   An unprotected cross connection exists on the premises;
      d.   A low pressure cut-off required by section 9-309 is not installed
and maintained in working order; or
      e.   The Manager is denied entry to determine compliance with this
Article.
   2.   The Manager shall immediately deny or discontinue, without notice to
the consumer thereof, the water service to any premises wherein a severe cross
connection exists which constitutes an immediate threat to the safety of the
public water system. The Manager shall notify the consumer within twenty-four
(24) hours of said denial or discontinuation of service.
   3.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with
these regulations, and to the satisfaction of the Manager.
§ 9-313 BACKFLOW/BACKSIPHONAGE PREVENTION; APPROVAL STANDARDS.
   1.   Any backflow prevention device required herein shall be of a model and
size approved by the Manager. The term “Approved Backflow Prevention Device”
shall mean a device that has been manufactured in full conformance with the
standards established by the American Water Works Associations (AWWA) entitled:
AWWA C506-69 Standards for Reduced Pressure Principle and Double Check Valve
Backflow Prevention Devices and by the American Society of Sanitary Engineers
(ASSE) entitled:
No. 1001   Pipe Applied Atmospheric Type Vacuum Breakers - ANSI Approved - 1982
- Revised, 1988
No. 1011   Hose Connection Vacuum Breakers - ANSI Approved 1982
No. 1012   Backflow Preventer/Intermediate Atmospheric Vent - 1978
No. 1013   Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Preventer - Revised 1988
No. 1015   Double Check Backflow Prevention Assembly - Revised 1988
No. 1019   Wall Hydrants, Freezeless, Automatic Draining, Anti-Backflow Types -
ANSI Approved 1978
No. 1020   Vacuum Breakers, Anti-siphon, Pressure Type - ANSI Approved 1982
Article 4. Electrical Code
Section
   
9-401   Electrical Code; Adopted by Reference
§ 9-401 ELECTRICAL CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
     The minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe and stable
installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the installation
of electrical transmission materials shall be as found in the National
Electrical Code, 2017 Edition, and all amended editions as though printed in
full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the statutes of the
State of Nebraska. All prior ordinances in conflict herewith shall be and are
hereby repealed. Three (3) copies of the National Electrical Code are on file
at the office of the Municipal Clerk and are available for public inspection at
any reasonable time. The provisions of the National Electrical Code 2017
Edition shall be controlling throughout the Municipality and throughout its
zoning jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902, 19-922 RS Neb.) (Amended by
Ord. No. 375, 3/21/95; 862, 8/5/14; 973, 4/17/18)
Article 5. Swimming Pools
[Editor’s Note: Article 5 was adopted in its entirety by Ordinance No. 224,
passed September 2, 1980]
Section
   
9-501   Swimming Pools; Definitions, Scope of Article
   
9-502   Swimming Pools; Permit; Plans and Specifications
   
9-503   Swimming Pools; Enclosures
   
9-504   Swimming Pools; Setback of Pool from Lotline
   
9-505   Swimming Pools; Safety Precautions
§ 9-501 SWIMMING POOLS; DEFINITIONS, SCOPE OF ARTICLE.
   For the purpose of this Article, a SWIMMING POOL shall be defined as a body
of water in an artificial or semi-artificial receptacle or other container
whether located indoors or outdoors, used or intended to be used for private
swimming by adults or children or both, including all structures,
appurtenances, equipment, appliances, and other facilities appurtenant to and
intended for the operation and maintenance of a swimming pool. The provisions
of this Article shall be applicable to all underground pools and above ground
pools, including inflatables, with sides that measure twenty-four (24) inches
or more. Water depth is not the determining factor. (Amended by Ord. No. 896,
8/4/15)
§ 9-502 SWIMMING POOLS; PERMIT; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.  
   Before commencing the installation of any swimming, bathing, or wading pool,
application shall be made for a permit from the Building Inspector. Application
for permits shall be accompanied by plans and specifications sufficient in
detail to show the pool dimensions, size, and type of filters, a layout of all
piping, with size indicated, methods of waste disposal, sources of water
supply, and other pertinent data. The above requirements shall not void any
requirements by any other city, state, or federal departments for permits,
plans, or approvals. All work performed shall comply with this section and the
applicable sections of the City’s Building, Electrical, Health and Plumbing
Codes, and Zoning Ordinances.
§ 9-503 SWIMMING POOLS; ENCLOSURES. 
   (1)   Every outdoor private, residential or family pool shall be completely
surrounded by a fence or wall not less than six feet (6') in height, which
shall be so constructed as not to have openings, holes or gaps larger than four
inches (4") in any dimension except for doors and gates, and if a picket fence
is erected and maintained, the horizontal dimension shall not exceed four
inches (4"). A dwelling or accessory building may be used as part of such
enclosure.
   (2)   All gates and doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device located at least forty-five inches
(45") above grade level for keeping the gate or door securely closed at all
times, except that the door of any dwelling which forms a part of the enclosure
need not be so equipped.
   (3)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to all family pools
other than indoor pools.
§ 9-504 SWIMMING POOLS; SETBACK OF POOL FROM LOTLINE.
   The sides of the pool shall be located at least four feet (4') from any
lotline.
§ 9-505 SWIMMING POOLS; SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.  
   All reasonable precautions shall be taken to protect the users and bathers
in private pools from injury or accident. Convenient means of egress and
ingress shall be provided. Safety appliances such as life buoys, life hooks,
bamboo poles, or ropes and equipment including first-aid kits shall be provided
and be readily accessible.
Article 6. Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards
[Editor’s Note: Article 6 was adopted in its entirety by Ordinance No. 227,
passed March 3, 1981]
Section
   
9-601   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; Need
   
9-602   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; Terms, Defined
   
9-603   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; Applicability
   
9-604   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; Exemptions
   
9-605   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; Request for Alternative
Building System; Approval
   
9-606   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; Inspections; Investigations
   
9-607   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; Building Plans Submission
for Approval
   
9-608   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; Fees
   
9-609   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; When Architect or Engineer
Is Retained
   
9-610   Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards; Validity
§ 9-601 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; NEED.  
   (1)   This ordinance shall be known as the Minimum Lighting and Thermal
Efficiency Standards for Buildings:
   (2)   The City finds that there is a present and continuing need to provide
for the development and implementation of minimum lighting and thermal
efficiency standards for buildings to insure coordination with federal policy
under the Energy Conservation Standards for New Building Act of 1976, to
promote the conservation of our dwindling energy resources, and to provide for
the public health, safety, and welfare.
§ 9-602 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; TERMS, DEFINED.  
   As used in this Article, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   (1)   A prime contractor shall mean the person, persons, entity or entities
who has a contract with the owner and is the one responsible for the overall
construction of any building or the installation of any component which affect
the energy efficiency of the building. Prime contractor shall also mean a
property owner who performs the work of a prime contractor.
   (2)   Architect or engineer shall mean any person registered pursuant to
section 81-847, Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943.
   (3)   Building shall mean any structure which utilizes or will utilize a
heating system, cooling system, or domestic hot water system, including new
buildings, renovated buildings, and additions, but not including any structure
which has a consumption of traditional energy sources for all purposes not
exceeding the energy equivalent of one watt per square foot.
   (4)   Residential building shall mean a building three stories or less that
is used primarily as one or more dwelling units.
   (5)   Renovation shall mean alterations on an existing building which will
cost more than fifty percent of the replacement costs of such building at the
time work is commenced or which was not previously heated or cooled, for which
a heating or cooling system is now proposed, except that the restoration of
historical buildings shall not be included.
   (6)   Addition shall mean any construction added to an existing building
which will increase the floor area of that building by five percent (5%) or
more.
   (7)   Floor area shall mean the total area of a building, expressed in
square feet, which is within the exterior face of the shell of the structure
which is heated or cooled.
   (8)   Standard shall mean Standard 90-75 of the American Society of Heating,
Refrigeration, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., as it existed on April 23,
1980.
   (9)   Traditional energy sources shall mean electricity, petroleum based
fuels, uranium, coal, and all nonrenewable forms of energy.
§ 9-603 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; APPLICABILITY. 
   The Standard shall apply to:
   (1)   New residential buildings on which construction is initiated on or
after April 1, 1981; and
   (2)   All other new buildings, or renovations of or additions to any
existing buildings, on which construction is initiated on or after January 1,
1982.
§ 9-604 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; EXEMPTIONS.  
   The following shall be exempt from this act:
   (1)   Any building which has a peak design rate of energy usage for all
purposes of less than one watt, or three and four-tenths British Thermal Units
per hour, per square foot of floor area.
   (2)   Any building which is neither heated nor cooled.
   (3)   Any building or portion thereof which is owned by the United States of
America.
   (4)   Any mobile home as defined by section 71-4603, Reissue Revised
Statutes of Nebraska, 1943.
   (5)   Any manufactured housing unit as defined by subsection (1) of section
71-1557, Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943.
   (6)   Any building listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
   (7)   All residential buildings shall be exempt from lighting efficiency
standards.
§ 9-605 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; REQUEST FOR ALTERNATIVE
BUILDING SYSTEM; APPROVAL.  
   Any person who owns or constructs a building to which this Article applies
may request that an alternative building system, technique, equipment design,
or building materials be found equivalent to the Standard. The Chief Building
Inspector shall make such determination if he finds that the proposed
alternative would not result in energy consumption greater than would result
from the strict application of the Standard. If the Chief Building Inspector
fails to approve or disapprove the request within sixty days from the date of
filing, it shall be considered approved.
§ 9-606 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; INSPECTIONS;
INVESTIGATIONS.  
   The Chief Building Inspector or any person designated by him or her shall
conduct inspections and investigations necessary to enforce the Standard and
may, at reasonable hours, enter into any building and upon any premises within
its jurisdiction for the purpose of examination to determine compliance with
this Article. Inspections shall be conducted only after permission has been
granted by the owner or occupant or after a warrant has been issued pursuant to
sections 29-830 to 29-835, Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943.
§ 9-607 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; BUILDING PLANS SUBMISSION
FOR APPROVAL.  
   Prior to the construction of, renovation of, or addition to any building
covered by this ordinance, the prime contractor shall file sufficient plans and
specifications with the Chief Building Inspector to enable him or her to make a
determination whether such building will comply with the Standard. The Chief
Building Inspector shall within thirty (30) days of the filing approve or
disapprove the plans and specifications. If disapproved, the reasons shall be
set forth in writing to the prime contractor.
   If the Chief Building Inspector determines that such construction,
renovation or addition will comply with the Standard, he or she shall issue a
written permit which the prime contractor shall display in a conspicuous place
on the premises where the construction work is to be done. No construction,
renovation or addition shall commence until a permit is issued and displayed as
required by this section.
§ 9-608 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; FEES.  
   The person filing the application for a permit shall, at the time of such
filing, pay to the City the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for residential
buildings and one cent per gross square foot for any other building.
§ 9-609 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; WHEN ARCHITECT OR ENGINEER
IS RETAINED.  
   If an architect or engineer is retained, the architect or engineer shall
place his or her state registration seal on all construction drawings which
shall indicate that the design meets the Standard. The Prime Contractor shall
certify that he or she will build in accordance with the construction documents
prepared by the architect or engineer. This certification must accompany the
building plans submitted to the Chief Building Inspector for approval.
§ 9-610 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; VALIDITY.  
   If any section in this Article or any part of any section shall be declared
invalid or unconstitutional such declaration shall not affect the validity or
constitutionality of the remaining portions thereof.
Article 7. Unsafe Buildings
Section
   
9-701   Unsafe Buildings; Special Assessments
§ 9-701 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.  
   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses to
comply with notice by or on behalf of the Municipality to repair, rehabilitate,
or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and a public
nuisance, the Municipality may proceed with the work specified in the notice to
the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted
to the Governing Body. The Governing Body may (1) levy the cost as a special
assessment against the lot or real estate upon which the building or structure
is located. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and
shall be collected in the manner provided for special assessments; or (2)
collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and enforce the
collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ref. 18-
1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01, 77-1725 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 331, 1/8/91)
Article 8. Penal Provisions
Section
   
9-801   Violations; Penalty
   
9-802   Abatement of Nuisance
§ 9-801 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
§ 9-802 ABATEMENT  OF  NUISANCE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
CHAPTER 10: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Article
      
A
rticle 1. Alcoholic Beverages
      
A
rticle 2. Sales and Advertising
      
A
rticle 3. Public Amusements
      
A
rticle 4. Business Enterprises
      
A
rticle 5. Occupation Tax
      
A
rticle 6. Franchises
      
A
rticle 7. Fireworks
      
A
rticle 8. Lottery
      
A
rticle 9. Tobacco Sales
      
A
rticle 10. Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments.
      
A
rticle 11. Sexually Oriented Businesses
      
A
rticle 12. Mobile Home Parks
      
A
rticle 13. Penal Provision
Article 1. Alcoholic Beverages
Section
   
10-101   Alcoholic Beverages; Definitions
   
10-102   Alcoholic Beverages; License Required
   
10-103   Alcoholic Beverages; Location Restrictions
   
10-104   Alcoholic Beverages; Access to Dwellings
   
10-105   Alcoholic Beverages; License Displayed
   
10-106   Alcoholic Beverages; Licensee Requirements
   
10-107   Alcoholic Beverages; Municipal Examination
   
10-107.01   Alcoholic Beverages; Catering Licenses
   
10-108   Alcoholic Beverages; License Renewal; Municipal Powers and Duties
   
10-109   Alcoholic Beverages; Licenses; City Powers and Duties
   
10-110   Alcoholic Beverages; Owner of Premises
   
10-111   Alcoholic Beverages; Employer
   
10-112   Alcoholic Beverages; Clear View
   
10-113   Alcoholic Beverages; Sale or Gift to Minor or Mentally Incompetent
Person Prohibited
   
10-114   Alcoholic Beverages; Credit Sales Prohibited
   
10-115   Alcoholic Beverages; Spiking Beer
   
10-116   Alcoholic Beverages; Original Package
   
10-117   Alcoholic Beverages; Minor's Presence
   
10-118   Alcoholic Beverages; Hours of Sale
   
10-119   Alcoholic Beverages; Sanitary Conditions
   
10-120   Alcoholic Beverages; Hiring Minors
   
10-121   Alcoholic Beverages; Consumption in Public Places or Places Open to
the Public; Restrictions
   
10-122   Alcoholic Beverages; Manufacture, Sale, Delivery, and Possession;
General Prohibitions; Exceptions
   
10-123   Alcoholic Beverages; Grounds for Revocation and Suspension
   
10-124   Alcoholic Beverages; Removal of Intoxicated Persons from Public or
Quasi-public Property
   
10-125   Alcoholic Beverages; Licensed Premises; Inspections
   
10-126   Alcoholic Beverages; Citizen Complaints
   
10-127   Alcoholic Beverages; Liquor Application; Notice; Procedure
   
10-128   Liquor Applications; Retail Licensing Standards; Binding
Recommendations
   
10-129   Alcoholic Beverages; Criteria for Granting of Special Designated
Permits
   
10-130   Alcoholic Beverages; Keg Sales; Requirements; Prohibited Acts
   
10-131   Alcoholic Beverages; Acquisition and Possession; Restrictions
§ 10-101 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied
thereto, as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the State of Nebraska. (Ref.
53-103.01 through 53-103.42 RS Neb.)
§ 10-102 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the Municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-103 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, no
license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a
bottle club within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any church, school,
hospital, or home for indigent persons or for veterans and their wives or
children. This prohibition does not apply to any location within such distance
of one hundred fifty (150) feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission for two
(2) years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to section
53 177.01 RS Neb.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any church, a
license may be issued if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and
holds a hearing as prescribed in section 53 133 RS Neb. if the affected church
submits a written request for a hearing. (Ref. 53-177 RS Neb.)
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by section 177.01 RS Neb., no alcoholic
liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within
three hundred (300) feet from the campus of any college or university within
the village, and no bottle club shall be operated within three hundred (300)
feet from the campus of any college, except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to section 53-124.15 RS Neb. (Ref. 53-
177.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 820, 6/19/12; 914, 5/17/16; 1012, 8/8/
19) 
§ 10-104 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premise which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes, and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family, or personal
guests. (Ref. 53-178 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 949, 5/2/17)
§ 10-105 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his license
to be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premise. (Ref. 53-148 RS Neb.)
§ 10-106 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant to chapter 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12 RS
Neb., or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another
state, except that any additional requirements imposed by this division on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one (1) of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one (1) of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty-five percent (25%) of
the stock of that corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under
this section for any reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1)
and (A)(3) of this section, or if a manager of a corporate licensee would be
ineligible to receive a license under this section for any reason. This
division shall not apply to railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division, an applicant whose spouse is
ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will
not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie
evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the
applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie
evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated;
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division shall not
prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent. (Ref. 53-125 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 243,
4/5/83; 259, 11/1/83; 520, 8/21/01; 951, 5/2/17; 1094, 12/7/21)
§ 10-107 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 499, 7/5/00)
§ 10-107.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CATERING LICENSES.   
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under section 53-124 RS Neb., a craft brewery, a microdistillery or a farm
winery license, or a farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license
as prescribed in this section. The catering license shall be issued for the
same period and may be renewed in the same manner as the retail license, craft
brewery license, or farm winery license.
   (B)   Any person desiring to obtain a catering license shall file with the
Commission:
      (1)   An application in triplicate original upon such forms as the
Commission prescribes; and
      (2)   A license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) payable to the
Commission, which fee shall be returned to the applicant if the application is
denied.
   (C)   (1)   When an application for a catering license is filed, the
Commission shall notify, by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested with postage prepaid:
         (a)   The clerk of the city in which such applicant is located; or
         (b)   If the applicant is not located within a city or incorporated
village, the county clerk of the county in which such applicant is located.
      (2)   The Governing Body and the Commission shall process the application
in the same manner as provided in section 53-132 RS Neb.
   (D)   The Governing Body, with respect to catering licensees within its
liquor license jurisdiction as provided in section 53-132(5) RS Neb., may
cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of the period for which
such catering license is issued. Any person whose catering license is canceled
may appeal to the District Court of the county in which the local governing
body is located.
   (E)   The Governing Body may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
Governing Body as provided in section 53-132(5) RS Neb. The tax may not exceed
double the license fee to be paid under this section. (Ref. 53-124.12 RS Neb.) 
(Ord. No. 373, 3/7/95) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 437, 6/17/97; 498, 7/5/00; 559, 4/
2/02; 662, 11/2/04)
§ 10-108 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE RENEWAL; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the City Council to require the licensee to
submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an
area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a
license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all
license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within sixty (60) days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one (1) year. (Ref. 53-135 RS Neb.)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the municipality, one (1) time between January 10 and
January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the
right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and each
bottle club license within the Municipality, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the City Clerk by
three (3) or more residents of the municipality on or before February 10, or
August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a hearing to
determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council may
request a licensee to submit an application as provided in section 53-135 RS
Neb. (Ref. 53-135.01 RS Neb.)  (Amended by Ord. Nos. 259, 11/1/83; 661, 11/2/
04; 1013, 8/8/19)
§ 10-109 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the city. (Ref. 53-134.03 RS Neb.)
   (B)   During the period of forty-five (45) days after the date of receipt by
mail or electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission of
notice and a copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor
at retail, a craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City
Council may make and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the
granting or refusal to grant the license to the applicant. (Ref. 53-131 RS
Neb.)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within thirty (30) days after determining that such violation
has occurred;
         (b)   Within thirty (30) days after the conclusion of an ongoing
police investigation; or
         (c)   Within thirty (30) days after the verdict in a prosecution
related to such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney
determines that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize
such prosecution, whichever is later;
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in sections 53-124 and 53-124.01 RS Neb. and pay the
same, after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act; to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law; and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in section 53-134.04 RS Neb., it determines that
the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly
enacted, adopted, and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of
cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission within thirty (30)
days after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with the
Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for
hearing on an application in section 53-133 RS Neb.;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in section 53-131 RS Neb., to fix a time and place for
a hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
(1) time not less than seven (7) and not more than fourteen (14) days before
the time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in
support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the
time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than forty-five (45)
days after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the City Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its
proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The City Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail,
postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the
published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision shall not
void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue
such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed
fifty (50) days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter,
not to exceed fifteen (15) days per calendar year, as provided in sections 53-
123.12 and 53-129 RS Neb.; and
       (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in section 14 of this Act. The local
governing body shall electronically notify the commission within five (5) days
after authorization of any permit pursuant to this division. (Ref. 53-134 RS
Neb.)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of section 53-124 RS Neb. the
fee is payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in section 53-135.01 RS Neb.; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
City shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two (2) times
the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Ref. 53-132 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 244, 4/5/83; 259, 11/1/83; 499, 7/
5/00; 558, 4/2/02; 952, 5/2/17; 1014, 8/8/19; 1095, 12/7/21; 1120, 9/20/22)
§ 10-110 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; OWNER OF PREMISES.
   The owner of any premise used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premise in violation of any Municipal Code section or Nebraska
statute. (Ref. 53-1,101 RS Neb.)
§ 10-111 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; EMPLOYER.
   The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act of
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, and each such act or omission
shall be deemed and held to be the act of the employer, and will be punishable
in the same manner as if the said act or omission had been committed by him
personally. (Ref. 53-1,102 RS Neb.) 
§ 10-112 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CLEAR VIEW.   
   It shall be unlawful to use any screen, blind, curtain, partition, article,
or other device in the windows or upon the doors of any retail liquor
establishment which will have the effect of preventing a clear view into the
interior of such licensed premise from the street, road, or sidewalk at all
times. All licensed premises shall be continuously lighted during business
hours by natural or artificial white lights to insure the clear visibility into
said establishment. Any licensee who willfully violates the provisions of this
section shall be subject to a revocation of his license by the Municipality as
provided herein. (Ref. 53-167 RS Neb.)
§ 10-113 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT
PERSON PROHIBITED.   
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent. (Ref. 53-180 RS Neb.)   
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 245, 4/5/83; 821, 6/19/12)
§ 10-114 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.   
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers. (Ref. 53-183 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. Nos. 199, 11/6/79; 822, 6/19/12; 893, 7/21/15)
§ 10-115 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SPIKING BEER.
    Repealed 2010.
§ 10-116 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in bottles,
casks, or other containers except in the original package. (Ref. 53-184 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-117 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MINOR’S PRESENCE. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of eighteen (18) years to frequent or otherwise remain in the said
establishment unless the said minor is accompanied by his parent or legal
guardian, and unless said minor remains seated with, and under the immediate
control of, the said parent or legal guardian. (Ref. 53-147 RS Neb.)
§ 10-118 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their agents to
sell any alcoholic beverages within the Municipality except during the hours
provided herein:
   HOURS OF SALE
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
   Secular Days
      Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M.
   Sundays
      Off Sale   12:00 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   12:00 Noon to 2:00 A.M.
Beer and Wine
   Secular Days
      Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M.
   Sundays
      Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M.
Provided that such limitations shall not apply after twelve o’clock (12:00)
Noon on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation holding a license
pursuant to section 53-124-(5)(C) and (E) RS Neb.
   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than fifteen (15) minutes after the time
fixed herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
For the purposes of this section, “on sale” shall be defined as alcoholic
beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed
establishment; “off sale” shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at
retail in the original container for consumption off the premises of the
licensed establishment.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed premises
from being open for business on days and hours during which the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section. (Ref. 53-179
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 176, 9/7/76; 198, 11/6/79; 246, 4/5/83; 260, 11/
1/83; 340, 10/1/91; 664, 11/2/04; 773, 7/6/10)
§ 10-119 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SANITARY CONDITIONS.  
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premise
shall be subject to any health inspections the Governing Body or the Municipal
Police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license. (Ref. 53-118
RS Neb.)
§ 10-120 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of nineteen (19) years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors,
including beer, to said licensee’s customers. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-121 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC  PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO
THE PUBLIC; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in section 53-186(2) RS Neb. or as provided in section 60-
6,211.08 RS Neb., it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor
upon property owned or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision
thereof unless authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such
property. (Ref. 53-186 RS Neb.)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant,
café, or club or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a
license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division does not
apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic
beverages or to limousines or buses operated under section 60-6,211.08 RS Neb.
(Ref. 53-186.01 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 823, 6/19/12; 1015, 8/8/19)
§ 10-122 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION;
GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider, or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables, or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older from carrying
alcoholic liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a
person not a minor;
      (6)   Persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older from handling
alcoholic liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their
employment;
      (7)   Persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older from removing and
disposing of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer
and customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older from completing a
transaction for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of then employment
if they are not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are nineteen (19) years old or older from serving or
selling alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Ref. 53-168.06 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 247, 4/5/83; 405, 2/20/96; 557,
4/2/02; 948, 5/2/17)
§ 10-123 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.  
   A retail license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquors, which this Council
is legally empowered to revoke, may be either revoked or suspended by the City
Council whenever it shall find, after notice and hearing as provided by law,
that the holder of any such license has violated any of the provisions of said
Nebraska Control Act, or of this Chapter, or rule or regulation of the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission, or for any one or more of the following causes:
   1.   The licensee, his manager or agent in charge of the premises licensed,
has been convicted of or has plead guilty to a felony under the laws of the
State of Nebraska, or of any other state of the United States.
   2.   The licensee, his manager or agent in charge of the premises licensed,
has been convicted of or has plead guilty to being the proprietor, manager or
agent in charge of a gambling house, or of pandering.
   3.   The licensee, his manager or agent in charge of the premises licensed,
has been convicted of or plead guilty to violation of any federal or state law
concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquors.
   4.   The licensee either swore falsely to any question in his application
for said license or has failed to comply with the statements and
representations made by the answer to any question or questions in said
application.
   5.   The licensee, his manager or agent in charge of the premises licensed,
shall have forfeited bond to appear in court to answer charges for any one of
the violations of law or ordinance referred to in this section.
   6.   It shall be the cause for revocation or suspension as herein provided
if the licensee, his manager or agent, shall allow any live person to appear,
or have reasonable cause to believe that any live person shall appear in any
licensed premises in a state of bottomless nudity or topless nudity to provide
entertainment, to provide service, to act as hostess, manager or owner, or to
serve as any employee in any capacity.
   For the purpose of this section, the term “bottomless nudity” shall mean the
showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less
than a full opaque covering. The term “topless nudity” shall mean the showing
of that area of the human female breast from one inch above the breast nipple,
the breast nipple, and that portion of the breast four inches below the breast
nipple with less than a full opaque covering.
   7.   Upon a signed formal complaint of an alleged violation of this
ordinance filed with the City Clerk of the City of Springfield, Nebraska, the
Mayor and City Council of the City of Springfield will conduct a hearing on the
matter at its next regular meeting, provided that the complaint is filed within
ten (10) days prior to said meeting, otherwise the matter will be held over
until the following regular Council Meeting. It shall be the duty of the City
Clerk of the City of Springfield, Nebraska, to notify the retail liquor license
holder, by United States mail, postage prepaid, of said alleged violation and
hearing date. (Ord. No. 176, 9/7/76)
§ 10-124 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM
PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC  PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
twenty-four (24) hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other state, county, or city-owned property.
   QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Ref. 53-1,121 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 215, 4/1/80) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 250, 4/5/
83; 1039, 7/21/20)
§ 10-125 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the Nebraska
Liquor Control Act, or the rules and regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is twenty-one (21)
years of age or older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has
stopped for the purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark. (Ref.
53-116.01 RS Neb.)
 (Ord. No. 248, 4/5/83) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 660, 11/2/04; 1016, 8/8/19; 1096,
12/7/21)
§ 10-126 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five (5) residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint
with the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued
pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed
by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule, or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten (10) days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve
notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the
particular charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be
disposed of by the City Council within thirty (30) days from the date the
complaint was filed by resolution thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the
final order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission as
provided in section 53-1,115 RS Neb.  (Ref. 53-134.04 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 249,
4/5/83) (Amended by Ord. No. 663, 11/2/04; 1017, 8/8/19) 
§ 10-127 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 499, 7/5/00)
§ 10-128 LIQUOR APPLICATIONS; RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS; BINDING
RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 499, 7/5/00)
§ 10-129 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CRITERIA FOR GRANTING OF SPECIAL DESIGNATED
PERMITS.
   The following criteria are hereby adopted as prerequisites to the approval
of a special designated permit for the consumption of alcohol. Theses criteria
are established pursuant to section 53-124.11 RS Neb.
   (1)   The applicant has met all the requirements set forth in section 53-
124.11 RS Neb., 1943, and all rules and regulations as promulgated by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (2)   The designated location is appropriate and proper and does not
otherwise prohibit the consumption of alcoholic liquor thereon.
   (3)   The special designated permit and the designated location shall not
allow or permit the selling or dispensing of liquor to minors because of its
designated location.
   (4)   The designated location shall not have had any liquor violations occur
within the past year.
   (5)   The applicant shall not have been found guilty of violating liquor
license laws of the State of Nebraska or the City within the past five (5)
years.
   (6)   The applicant has paid a fifty dollar ($50.00) per day permit fee to
the City.
   (7)   The applicant is not requesting more than a five (5) day permit.
   (8)   An applicant may only receive one (1) permit in any six (6) day
period.
   (9)   The event shall be held in an enclosed or fenced area no larger than
ninety thousand (90,000) square feet.
   (10) Applicant shall past a five hundred dollar ($500.00) cash bond with the
City to ensure faithful performance of subsection (9) above. If applicant’s
event shall exceed the square footage limitation, the bond shall be forfeited
to cover the law enforcement costs associated with the violation. (Ord. No.
443, 4/7/98) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 515, 8/7/01; 570, 9/3/02; 755, 4/7/09)
§ 10-130 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.  
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five (5) or more gallons or eighteen and ninety-two hundredths (18.92) or
more liters, the seller shall record the date of the sale, the keg
identification number, the purchaser's name and address, and the number of the
purchaser's motor vehicle operator's license, state identification card, or
military identification, if the military identification contains a picture of
the purchaser, together with the purchaser's signature. This record shall be on
a form prescribed by the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept
by the licensee at the retail establishment where the purchase was made for not
less than six (6) months. The records kept pursuant to this section shall be
available for inspection by any law enforcement officer during normal business
hours or at any other reasonable time. Any person violating this section shall
be guilty of an offense. (Ref. 53-167.02 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) or is in
possession of a container described in division (A) with an altered or removed
keg identification number after the container has been taken from the licensed
premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the licensed
premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted shall be guilty of an
offense. (Ref. 53-167.03 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 918, 5/17/16)
§ 10-131 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.  
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic Liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act. (Ref. 53-175 RS Neb.)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this State for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine (9) liters in any one (1) calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person
importing alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping
license or its equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for
use by such person's family or guests, if the total amount imported by such
person in any one (1) calendar year does not exceed one hundred eight (108)
liters. (Ref. 53-194.03 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 950, 5/2/17)
Article 2. Sales and Advertising
Section
   
10-201   Peddlers and Hawkers; Regulation
   
10-202   Peddlers and Hawkers; Hours of Solicitation
   
10-203   Peddlers and Hawkers; Exceptions
§ 10-201 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; REGULATION.  
   To prevent the sale of fraudulent, dangerous, and unhealthful goods and
services; to protect the public by maintaining records of the products sold and
the persons and companies responsible for such sales; and for the purpose of
raising revenue, all peddlers, and hawkers shall, before doing business within
the Municipality, make application for, and be issued a license. Application
for a license shall be made to the Municipal Clerk, at least eight (8) hours in
advance of the time such applicant desires to begin doing business and shall
contain all the necessary information, and documents required for the
protection of the residents of the Municipality. Any person or persons granted
a peddler and hawker license shall be subject to any fees, occupation taxes,
and other rules and regulations which the Governing Body deems appropriate for
the purposes stated herein. Any permit so granted shall be subject to
revocation for good and sufficient cause by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-134,
17-525 RS Neb.)
§ 10-202 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; HOURS OF SOLICITATION.  
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesman, or peddler to solicit any
individual between the hours of six (6:00) o’clock P.M., and eight (8:00)
o’clock A.M., unless they have a previous appointment with the resident, or
residents, of the premise solicited. It shall be unlawful at any hour for a
solicitor, salesman, or peddler to solicit without a proper license on his
person at all times.  (Ref. 17-134 RS Neb.)
§ 10-203 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS; EXCEPTIONS.  
   Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any person, or persons,
selling produce raised within the county, to wholesale salesmen soliciting
merchants directly.
Article 3. Public Amusements
Section
   
10-301   Bingo; Regulation
   
10-302   Bingo; Tax
   
10-303   Bingo; Quarterly Report
   
10-304   Bingo; Incorporated Regulation
§ 10-301 BINGO; REGULATION.
   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the Municipality in accordance with
all laws of the Municipality and the State of Nebraska if the said game of
bingo is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed
by the State of Nebraska to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written
permit from the Governing Body before commencing operation of said game.
Application shall be made to the Municipal Clerk for such permit. Said
application form shall contain such information and documents or copies thereof
as the Governing Body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject
the application. Upon the determination that granting the application would be
proper, the Governing Body shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk to
issue the said license to the applicant upon the payment of an annual permit
fee of ten dollars ($10.00). Said license shall be subject to revocation at any
time for good cause. Any person or persons, so licensed, shall be subject to
any other fees, rules, and regulations which the Governing Body may designate.
All permits so issued will automatically expire on September thirtieth (30th),
following its issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal unless otherwise
prescribed shall be in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00). Said fee shall be
credited to the General Fund. The permit shall be on display at any place where
a game of bingo is conducted. (Ref. 9-236 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 197,
11/6/79; 278, 12/4/84)
§ 10-302 BINGO; TAX.  
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 480, 4/7/99)
§ 10-303 BINGO; QUARTERLY REPORT.  
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 480, 4/7/99)
§ 10-304 BINGO; INCORPORATED REGULATION.  
   All applicable State statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be, and will constitute, a part of this Article as if repeated verbatim
herein, and violation of any State statute will be a distinct and separate
offense against the Municipality as well as against the State. Violators
thereof shall be separately prosecuted by the Municipality for each of such
offenses, and if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ref. 9-201 through 9-265 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Business Enterprises
Section
   
10-401   Railroad Companies; Safe Crossings
   
10-402   Railroad Companies; Lighting
   
10-403   Railroad Companies; Obstructing Traffic
   
10-404   Stockyard; Unlawful
   
10-405   Building Moving; Regulation
   
10-406   Building Moving; Deposit
§ 10-401 RAILROAD COMPANIES; SAFE CROSSINGS.  
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the Municipality to keep in a suitable, and safe condition
the crossings and right-of-way in the Municipality. If any such crossing shall
at any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or inconvenient for public
travel, the Governing Body may, by resolution, call upon the said company to
make whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous
condition. Notice of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent
of the said company. In the event that the railroad shall fail, or neglect to
repair, and correct the said condition as aforesaid within forty-eight (48)
hours, neglect for each twenty-four (24) hours thereafter shall be deemed, and
is hereby made a separate, and distinct offense against the provisions herein.
(Ref. 17-143, 17-144, 17-551, 17-552, 75-414 RS Neb.)
§ 10-402 RAILROAD COMPANIES; LIGHTING.  
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating, and
maintaining a railroad through the Municipality to sufficiently light all
crossings and to install as many signal systems as the Governing Body shall
deem necessary at the expense of the said company. (Ref. 17-561 RS Neb.)
§ 10-403 RAILROAD COMPANIES; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.  
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents, or
servants operating a railroad through the Municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than five (5) minutes. (Ref. 17-552 RS Neb.)
§ 10-404 STOCKYARD; UNLAWFUL.  
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to use or
employ any building or premise, now or hereafter erected, or existing in this
Municipality, as a stockyard, animal weighing pen, whether temporarily used for
weighing, loading or unloading during transportation or not, or as a commercial
cattle, hog, sheep, or animal feed lot, or to use or employ buildings, sheds or
pavilions used as interior sales barns without the previous permission, in
writing, of the Governing Body. Nothing herein shall apply to any person now
operating within the corporate limits a commercial sale barn, stockyard, or
animal weighing pen, or who presently uses or employs buildings, sheds or
pavilions as interior sale barns, but shall apply to any assignee of such
person.
§ 10-405 BUILDING MOVING; REGULATION.  
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move or
dismantle any building or structure within the Municipality without a written
permit to do so. Application may be made to the Municipal Clerk, and shall
include the location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used, and such other information as the Governing Body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. The Municipal Clerk shall
refer the said application to the Municipal Police for approval of the proposed
route over which the said building is to be moved. Upon approval of the
Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk shall then issue the said permit; provided,
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount
set by motion of the Governing Body and conditioned upon moving said building
without doing damage to any private or Municipal property is filed with the
Municipal Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving permit shall be
required to move a building that is ten feet (10') wide, or less, and twenty
feet (20') long, or less, and when in a position to move, fifteen feet (15')
high, or less. In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building
mover to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas
line, the company or companies owning, using, or operating the said poles,
wires or line shall upon proper notice of at least twenty-four (24) hours, be
present and assist by disconnecting the said poles, wires, or line relative to
the building moving operation. All expense of the said disconnection, removal,
or related work shall be paid in advance by the licensee unless such
disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as provided in the said
company’s franchise. Whenever the moving of any building necessitates
interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire belonging to the
Municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of the said building
moving operation shall be given to the various Municipal officials in charge of
the Municipal utility departments who shall proceed in behalf of the
Municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such disconnections and do
such work as is necessary. (Ref. 60-6,288 to 60-6,294, 60-6,296, 77-1725 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-406 BUILDING MOVING; DEPOSIT.  
   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Municipal Police
shall inspect the premise and report to the Municipal Clerk as to the extent of
damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation and whether any Municipal
laws have been violated during the said operation. Upon a satisfactory report
from the Municipal Police, the Municipal Clerk shall return the corporate
surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the
basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered, or in
a clean and sanitary condition, the Governing Body may apply the money
deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the said
conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater
than the amount of the deposit set by resolution of the Governing Body, as
required herein, the Governing Body may recover such excess expense by civil
suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
Article 5. Occupation Tax
Section
   
10-501   Occupation Tax; Required Businesses; Amounts
   
10-502   Occupation Tax; Fire Insurance Companies
   
10-503   Occupation Tax; Collection Date
   
10-504   Occupation Tax; Certificates
   
10-505   Occupation Tax; Failure to Pay
   
10-506   Occupation Tax; Telephone Companies and Telecommunications Companies
   
10-507   Occupation Tax: Levies Authorized
§ 10-501 OCCUPATION TAX; REQUIRED BUSINESSES; AMOUNTS.
   (1)   For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax is hereby levied
on the following businesses:
      Advertising Bench   Annually
      Alcoholic Liquors Retailer   Annually
      Billiards or Pool Tables   Annually
      Fire Insurance Companies   Annually
      Fireworks Stands   Annually
      Mechanical Amusement Devices   Annually
      Special Liquor License Retailer   Per Event
      Tattoo Parlor   Annually
      Telephone Companies   Annually
      Tobacco Retailer   Annually
      Trailer or Mobile Home Court   Annually
      Vendor/Hawker/Peddler   Annually or Per Day
   (2)   The occupation tax due shall be established and listed in the
Springfield Fees Ordinance adopted and kept current in the City Clerk’s Office.
(Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 280, 6/11/85; 577, 10/1/02)
§ 10-502 OCCUPATION TAX; FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.  
   For the use, support, and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department all
revenue realized from the occupation tax on Fire Insurance Companies shall be
appropriated to the Fire Department Fund. (Ref. 35-106 RS Neb.)
§ 10-503 OCCUPATION TAX; COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on the first (1st) day of May
of each year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, in which
event the tax shall be payable prior to the date for which the tax is levied,
and upon the payment thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk,
the said Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person
paying the said tax, and the amount paid. The revenue collected shall then be
immediately deposited into the General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The
Municipal Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over
to him. All forms, and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate.
One (1) copy shall then be kept by each party in the transaction. (Ref. 17-525
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 187, 1/4/77; 280, 6/11/85)
§ 10-504 OCCUPATION TAX; CERTIFICATES.  
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
Occupation Tax Certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person, and business that paid the said tax. The
Occupation Tax Certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§ 10-505 OCCUPATION TAX; FAILURE TO PAY.  
   If any person, company, or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due, and payable, the
Municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of one (1%) percent per month
until paid. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§ 10-506 OCCUPATION TAX; TELEPHONE COMPANIES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
COMPANIES.  
   (A)   Revenue Measure. The provisions of this section are enacted solely as
a revenue measure of the City.
   (B)   Telephone Companies and Telecommunications Companies. An occupation
tax is hereby levied and imposed on every person who engages in the business of
providing local exchange telephone service, intrastate message toll telephone
service and mobile telecommunications services for revenue in the City.
   (C)   Mobile Telecommunications Services, Defined. As used in this section,
MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES shall mean a wireless communication service
carried on between mobile stations or receivers and land stations, and by
mobile stations communicating among themselves, and includes:
      (1)   Both one-way and two-way wireless communications services;
      (2)   A mobile service which provides a regularly interacting group of
base, mobile, portable, and associated control and relay stations, whether on
an individual, cooperative, or multiple basis for private one- way or two-way
land mobile radio communications by eligible users over designated areas of
operation; and
      (3)   Any personal communications services.
   (D)   Amount of Tax.
      (1)   The occupations tax levied and imposed by the provisions of this
section shall be a percentage, as set by the City Fees Ordinance, of the gross
income received from furnishing local exchange telephone service and intrastate
message toll telephone service, other than mobile telecommunications services
as defined in this section, from subscribers within the corporate limits of the
City.
      (2)   If the telecommunications services provided are mobile
telecommunication services as defined in this section, the tax shall be a
percentage, as set by the City Fees Ordinance, of the gross income received
from furnishing mobile telecommunications service that originates and
terminates in the same state to a customer with a place of primary use within
the corporate limits of the City. Gross receipts shall not mean:
         (a)   The gross income, including division of revenue, settlements, or
carrier access charges received on or after January 1, 1984, from the sale of a
telephone communication service to a communication service provider for
purposes of furnishing a telephone communication service; or
         (b)   The gross income attributable to services rendered using a
prepaid telephone calling arrangement.
   (E)   Quarterly Payments; Due Dates. The payment of any occupation tax
levied and imposed by the provisions of this Article shall be made in quarterly
payments using the calendar quarter year as a basis for determining the due
date. Each quarterly payment shall be due thirty (30) days immediately
following the termination of each calendar quarter year.
   (F)   Statement to be Filed. Every person coming within the provisions of
this Article shall, on or before the fifteenth (15th) day of the month
immediately following the termination of each calendar year, file with the City
Clerk, in the case of those persons taxed by this section, a full, complete and
detailed statement of the income and gross receipts of said person for the
preceding three (3) calendar months, omitting therefrom the appropriate
exceptions and exemptions, if any. All statements shall be duly verified as
true and correct and sworn to by the manager or managing officer of such
person.
   (G)   City’s Right to Inspect. The City shall have the right at any and all
times during business hours to inspect, through the comptroller or some other
officer appointed by the City Council, the books and records of any person
coming under the provisions of this Article for the purpose of ascertaining the
correctness of the required statement.
   (H)   Failure to File Statement; Interest and Penalty. In the event any
person coming under the provisions of this Article shall refuse, fail or
neglect to furnish or file the required statement at the time or times
specified, the occupation tax for the preceding three (3) calendar months
calendar months shall draw interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month
after due and payable and, in addition thereto, a penalty of five percent (5%)
for the failure to file.
   (I)   Interest and Penalty on Delinquent Payments. All delinquent payments
shall draw interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month; and, if
delinquent for six (6) months or more, a penalty of five percent (5%) shall be
added thereto in addition to the interest charge.
   (J)   Collection of Tax by Civil Action. In case any person shall fail to
make payment of the occupation tax as required by this Article, the City shall
have the right and may sue any such person or persons in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of the occupation tax due and payable and may
recover judgment against such person for the amount so due, together with
interest and penalties, and may have execution thereon.
   (K)   Disposition of Receipts. The occupation taxes paid under the
provisions of this Article shall be credited to the General Fund of the City.
   (L)   The calculation of the amount of occupation tax due under subsection
(D) above shall commence October 1, 2003. (Ord. No. 621, 9/2/03)
§ 10-507 OCCUPATION TAX: LEVIES AUTHORIZED.  
   (A)   The city shall have power to raise revenue by levying and collecting a
license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the city and
regulate the same by ordinance. Any occupation tax imposed pursuant to this
section shall make a reasonable classification of businesses, users of space,
or kinds of transactions for purposes of imposing such tax, except that no
occupation tax shall be imposed on any transaction which is subject to tax
under §§53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02, 66-4,140, 66-4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602, or
77-4008 RS Neb. or which is exempt from tax under §77-2704.24 RS Neb. The
occupation tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in §18-1208 RS Neb.,
except that §18-1208 RS Neb. does not apply to an occupation tax subject to
§86-704 RS Neb. All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the classes upon
which they are imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and entertainments
shall be exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and other musical
entertainments given exclusively by the citizens of the city. (Ref.17-525 RS
Neb.)
   (B)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
(city/village) shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any
person, firm, or corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and
doing business within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds
two (2) times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act
to obtain such license. (Ref. 53-132 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 894, 7/21/
15)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see 18-1208 RS Neb.
Article 6. Franchises
Section
   
10-601   Franchises; Natural Gas; Fee
   
10-602   Franchises; Electricity; Fee
   
10-603   Franchises; Cable Television; Fee
§ 10-601 FRANCHISES; NATURAL GAS; FEE.
   (1)   The Governing Body has granted to the Metropolitan Utilities District
the authority to construct, maintain and operate a gas transmission and
distribution system within the Municipality. Metropolitan Utilities District
shall pay to the City a franchise fee of two percent (2%) of the gross receipts
from such business. Actual details of the agreement and the present gas rates,
charges and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk’s office.
   (2)   The franchise fee due shall be established and listed in the
Springfield Fees Ordinance adopted and kept current in the Municipal Clerk’s
Office. (Ref. 17-528.02) (Ord. No. 297, 12/1/87) (Amended by Ord. No. 578, 10/
1/02)
§ 10-602 FRANCHISES; ELECTRICITY; FEE.
   (1)   The Governing Body has granted to the Omaha Public Power District the
authority to maintain and operate the light and power system in the
Municipality for the purpose of furnishing electric energy to the Municipality,
and fixing the charges for such services. Actual details of the agreement, and
the present telephone rates, charges, and fees are available at the Municipal
Clerk’s office.
   (2)   The franchise fee due shall be established and listed in the
Springfield Fees Ordinance adopted and kept current in the Municipal Clerk’s
Office. (Ref. 17-528.03) (Ord. No. 579, 10/1/02)
§ 10-603 FRANCHISES; CABLE TELEVISION; FEE.
   (1)   The Governing Body has granted to Charter Communications, Inc., the
authority to construct, maintain and operate a cable television system within
the Municipality. Actual details of the agreement, and the present cable
television rates, charges, and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk’s
office.
   (2)   The franchise fee due shall be established and listed in the
Springfield Fees Ordinance adopted and kept current in the Municipal Clerk’s
Office. (Ord. No. 580, 10/1/02)
Article 7. Fireworks
[Editor’s Note: Article 7 was adopted in its entirety by Ordinance No. 359, 4/
19/94.]
Section
   
10-701   Fireworks; Permissible Fireworks Designated
   
10-702   Fireworks; Exception
   
10-703   Fireworks; Fireworks Restricted
   
10-704   Fireworks; Sales
   
10-705   Fireworks; Location of Stand Generally
   
10-706   Fireworks; Proximity to Certain Businesses
   
10-707   Fireworks; Fire Extinguisher
   
10-708   Fireworks; Compliance with State Laws
   
10-709   Fireworks; License Required
   
10-710   Fireworks; License Personal to Applicant; One Location per License
   
10-711   Fireworks; Application for License
   
10-712   Fireworks; Hearing on Grant of License
   
10-713   Fireworks; Fees
   
10-714   Fireworks; Consent for Bond Required
   
10-715   Fireworks; Bond Forfeiture or Return
   
10-716   Fireworks; Insurance
   
10-717   Fireworks; Place of Business
   
10-718   Fireworks; Inspection Required
   
10-719   Fireworks; Duty of Licensee to Request Inspection
   
10-720   Fireworks; Display of License
   
10-721   Fireworks; Duration of License
   
10-722   Fireworks; Age of Manager to Be on Premises
   
10-723   Fireworks; Special Permit for Community Fireworks Show
   
10-724   Fireworks; Violations
§ 10-701 FIREWORKS; PERMISSIBLE FIREWORKS DESIGNATED.
   Permissible fireworks shall mean any fireworks approved under the laws of
the State of Nebraska. (Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-702 FIREWORKS; EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this Article shall not apply to the discharge of any
fireworks for purposes or under the auspices of any governmental subdivision.
(Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-703 FIREWORKS; FIREWORKS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall possess, sell, offer for sale, bring into the City or
discharge any pyrotechnics, commonly known as fireworks, other than permissible
fireworks. (Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-704 FIREWORKS; SALES.    
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale, or offer
for sale as distributor, jobber, or retailer any fireworks in this municipality
unless such person has first obtained a license as a distributor, jobber or
retailer. Application for each such license shall be made to the State Fire
Marshal on forms prescribed by him or her. If the applicant is an individual,
each application shall include the applicant’s social security number. Each
application shall be accompanied by the required fee, which shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for a distributor’s license, two hundred dollars
($200.00) for a jobber’s license, and twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for a
retailer’s license. Each application for a license as a retailer postmarked
after June 10th shall be accompanied by an additional fee of fifty dollars
($50.00). All licenses shall be good only for the calendar year in which issued
and shall at all times be displayed at the place of business of the holder
thereof. The funds received pursuant to this section shall be remitted to the
State Treasurer for credit to the State Fire Marshal Cash Fund. (Ref. 28-1246
RS Neb.)
   (B)   Before any permissible fireworks may be sold, held for sale, or
offered for sale in this Municipality, they shall first be submitted to the
State Fire Marshal for examination to determine their compliance with section
28-1241(7) RS Neb. and their safety for general use. Fireworks not specifically
listed in section 28- 1241(7) RS Neb. may be added to the list of permissible
fireworks by the State Fire Marshal, by rule or regulation, after having been
submitted to him or her and tested to determine their safety for general use.
(Ref. 28-1247 RS Neb.)
   (C)   Permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only from 12:01 a.m. June
25 through 11:59 p.m. July 4 and from 12:01 a.m. December 29 through 11:59 p.m.
December 31 of each year. (Ref. 28-1249 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 360, 6/
21/94; 657, 11/2/04; 782, 11/16/10)
§ 10-705 FIREWORKS; LOCATION OF STAND GENERALLY.
   (A)   In addition to all other requirements and regulations of the City, all
fireworks stand, booths or other places of sale of fireworks shall conform to
all rules and regulations promulgated by the Nebraska State Fire Marshal’s
Office.
   (B)   Fireworks may only be sold from within:
      (1)   A temporary building structure, utilizing a booth or stand allowing
for walk-up sales,
      (2)   A temporary building structure which allows patrons to enter the
structure,
      (3)   A tent (provided, however, no tent used for the sale shall exceed a
maximum floor space for sales and storage area of 5,000 square feet),
      (4)   A metal trailer, or
      (5)   A building or structure that complies with the regulations of the
State of Nebraska State Fire Marshal’s Office. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 360, 6/21/
94; 744, 11/20/07; 789, 6/7/11)
§ 10-706 FIREWORKS; PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   Stands and areas where fireworks are to be sold shall be located at least
one hundred feet (100') from any gasoline service station or automotive repair
shop using flammable materials. Such distance shall be measured from the
closest point where fireworks are sold or stored to the closest point where
gasoline or combustible material is dispensed or stored above ground. (Amended
by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-707 FIREWORKS; FIRE EXTINGUISHER.
   A minimum ten pound (10') Class A fire extinguisher must be kept in each
fireworks stand at all times. (Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-708 FIREWORKS; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAWS.
   In addition to all requirements and regulations of the City, all sellers of
fireworks shall comply with all laws, regulations and rules of the State of
Nebraska dealing with the sale and distribution of fireworks. (Amended by Ord.
No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-709 FIREWORKS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, hold for sale, or offer for sale any fireworks in the
City unless such person has first obtained a license as a retailer. Such
license is valid for one fireworks season only and the issuance of a license
for any particular season or combination of seasons does not create any
expectation of or property interest in the issuance of a license for another
season. (Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-710 FIREWORKS; LICENSE PERSONAL TO APPLICANT; ONE LOCATION PER LICENSE.
   An organization or individual may receive only one (1) license to sell
fireworks from June 25 through July 4 and only one (1) license to sell
fireworks from December 29 through December 31. Each license granted shall be
for one (1) specific location identified by address or suitable area
description on the application. License shall be considered personal to the
applicant and shall not be assignable or transferable in any manner. The
issuance of a license for any particular season or combination of seasons does
not create any expectation of or property interest in the issuance of a license
for another season, except as may be provided by this Code. (Amended by Ord.
Nos. 360, 6/21/94; 475, 10/6/98; 782, 11/16/10)
§ 10-711 FIREWORKS; APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.    
   Application for a license required under the provisions of this Article for
fireworks sales from June 25 through July 4 shall be made in the office of the
City Clerk only between January 1 and May 1 of each year in which the license,
if issued, would be valid. Application for a license required under the
provisions of this Article for fireworks sales from December 29 through
December 31 shall be made in the office of the City Clerk only between
September 1 and November 1 of each year in which the license, if issued, would
be valid. The City Clerk will provide the application form. The City Clerk
will, at the time of accepting the application for license, give notice of the
date and time of the hearing for licenses. At the time of an application, an
applicant shall furnish to the City the name and address of the fireworks stand
manager. The person designated as manager must be at least twenty-one (21)
years of age. It shall be incumbent upon the applicant to keep this list
current so that the names of the employees having management responsibilities
will always be on file in the office of the City Clerk. Each applicant shall
provide a plat plan showing location of the stand, address, setback from street
right-of-way, distance to nearest building or structure, and occupancy of
nearest building. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 360, 6/21/94; 475, 106/98; 782, 11/16/
10)
§ 10-712 FIREWORKS; HEARING ON GRANT OF LICENSE.
   The City Council shall hold a hearing on fireworks license applications for
sales from June 25 through July 4 at the first (1st) regular meeting in May.
The City Council shall hold a hearing on fireworks license applications for
sales from December 29 through December 31 at the first (1st) regular meeting
in November. The City Council shall take testimony regarding the reputation and
experience of the applicants. If the City Council finds that an applicant has a
satisfactory reputation for operating a fireworks stand, the license shall be
granted upon payment of the bond. If, prior to the public hearing required by
this section, the Mayor determines that an applicant has held a City fireworks
stand license and no complaints have been received pertaining to the applicant,
the Mayor may waive the requirement that the applicant attend the public
hearing. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 360, 6/21/94; 475, 10/6/98; 757, 7/7/09; 782,
11/16/10)
§ 10-713 FIREWORKS; FEES.
   Each application for a license to sell fireworks from June 25 through July 4
shall be accompanied by a two thousand dollar ($2000.00) license fee. Each
application for a license to sell fireworks from December 29 through December
31 shall be accompanied by a five hundred dollar ($500.00) license fee. If the
license is granted, the fee shall be retained by the City. If the license is
denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 360,
6/21/94; 475, 10/6/98; 782, 11/16/10)
§ 10-714 FIREWORKS; CONSENT FOR BOND REQUIRED.
   Before the issuance of a fireworks license, the applicant shall execute a
consent form agreeing to abide by any regulations imposed by the City
pertaining to the sale of fireworks and shall furnish to the City a cash bond
in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) conditioned that the licensee
shall abide by any and all regulations proposed by the City pertaining to the
sale of fireworks, and that the licensee shall clean the area in and around any
stand where fireworks are sold, such work to be done by July 7 of each year for
fireworks sold from June 25 through July 4 and such work to be done by January
4 of each year for fireworks sold from December 29 through December 31. Any
portable stand or tent shall be removed from its temporary location by July 12
of each year for fireworks sold from June 25 through July 4 and by January 9 of
each year for fireworks sold from December 29 through December 31. (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 360, 6/21/94; 782, 11/16/10)
§ 10-715 FIREWORKS; BOND FORFEITURE OR RETURN.
   Cash bonds as provided in section 10-715 shall be returned to the licensee
when the Mayor or his or her designated representative shall have certified
that the conditions of the bond have been satisfied. In the event any portable
stand is not removed from its temporary location within the allotted time or
the sale area is not cleaned and the debris and trash not removed therefrom,
then the cash bond shall be forfeited and the proceeds used by the City to
clean the area and remove the stand. (Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-716 FIREWORKS; INSURANCE.
   Each applicant must attach to its application a copy of a certificate of
public liability insurance with minimum amounts of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00)
per person. (Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-717 FIREWORKS; PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   A license issued under the provisions of this Article shall be conditioned
upon the licensee providing an acceptable fireworks stand or place of business.
(Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-718 FIREWORKS; INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   The license may be obtained at the office of the City Clerk only after an
inspection by the Mayor or his or her designated representative of the
fireworks stand or place of sale to determine if such stand or place of sale
conforms to all City standards, building codes, and land use regulations.
(Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-719 FIREWORKS; DUTY OF LICENSEE TO REQUEST INSPECTION.
   The applicant for a license required by the provisions of this Article shall
request the City to make such inspection not later than June 23 of each
calendar year for fireworks sold from June 25 through July 4 and not later than
December 27 of each calendar year for fireworks sold from December 29 through
December 31, and such inspection shall be made by the City within forty-eight
(48) hours after the request. In the event of any violation, the license may
not be picked up at the City Hall until the violation is corrected. (Amended by
Ord. Nos. 360, 6/21/94; 782, 11/16/10)
§ 10-720 FIREWORKS; DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
Licenses issued under the provisions of this Article shall be displayed at all
times at the place of business of the licensee. (Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/
94)
§ 10-721 FIREWORKS; DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this Article shall be valid only for
the calendar year in which issued. (Amended by Ord. No. 360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-722 FIREWORKS; AGE OF MANAGER TO BE ON PREMISES.
   During all hours of operation of a fireworks stand a manager at least
twenty-one (21) years of age shall be on the premises. (Amended by Ord. No.
360, 6/21/94)
§ 10-723 FIREWORKS; SPECIAL PERMIT FOR COMMUNITY FIREWORKS SHOW.  
   No person shall conduct a public exhibition or display of fireworks without
first procuring a display permit from the Nebraska State Fire Marshal and the
City Clerk. All applicants for a City of Springfield permit shall present the
City Clerk with a copy of their permit issued by the Nebraska State Fire
Marshal, as well as a detailed to scale diagram of the location where the
fireworks will be ignited. All applicants shall have a one million dollar
($1,000,000.00) general liability insurance policy. All policies of insurance
shall be written by an insurer authorized to do business in Nebraska. All
policies of insurance shall name the City of Springfield as an additional named
insured. If the diagram and certificate of insurance are acceptable to the City
Clerk and the appropriate fee is paid, the City Clerk shall issue the license.
(Ord. No. 898, 8/4/15)
§ 10-724 FIREWORKS; VIOLATIONS.
   Any person or licensee who violates any of the provisions of this Article
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and in addition to any fine, any
person who is licensed shall be subject to the revocation of such license. Upon
complaint being filed with the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall notify the
licensee in writing and shall order a hearing before the City Council to show
cause why said license should not be revoked. The hearing shall be not less
than seven (7) days after the filing of the complaint. The City Council shall
conduct a special hearing for purposes of determining whether such license
shall be revoked. The licensee shall appear in person or by his attorney and
upon revocation no refund of any portion of the license fee shall be made to
the licensee and he shall immediately close all business at all places under
such license. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 360, 6/21/94; 898, 8/4/15)
Article 8. Lottery
Section
   
10-801   Lottery; Participation; Restrictions
§ 10-801 LOTTERY; PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (1)   No person under nineteen (19) years of age shall play or participate
in any way in the lottery established and conducted by the Municipality.
   (2)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the Municipality
contracts to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the
Municipality. No owner or officer of an authorized sales outlet location for
the Municipality shall play in the lottery conducted by the Municipality. No
employee or agent of the Municipality, lottery operator, or authorized sales
outlet location shall play the lottery of the Municipality for which he or she
performs work during such time as he or she is actually working at such lottery
or while on duty.
   (3)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the Governing Body, a municipal
official, or the immediate family of such member or official from playing the
lottery conducted by the Municipality as long as such person is nineteen (19)
years of age or older.
   (4)   No person, or employee or agent of any person or the Municipality,
shall knowingly permit an individual under nineteen (19) years of age to play
or participate in any way in the lottery conducted by the Municipality.
   (5)   For purposes of this section, immediate family of a member of the
Governing Body or a municipal official shall mean (a) a person who is related
to the member or official by blood, marriage, or adoption and resides in the
same household or (b) a person who is claimed by the member or official, or the
spouse of the member or official, as a dependent for federal income tax
purposes. (Ref. 9-646 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 465, 8/4/98)
Article 9. Tobacco Sales
Section
   
10-901   Tobacco; License for Sale; Application; Contents; Fee
   
10-902   Tobacco; Product Placement
   
10-903   Tobacco: License to Sell: Issuance
   
10-904   Tobacco: License Application
   
10-905   Tobacco: License Term; Fees
   
10-906   Tobacco: Rights of Licensee
   
10-907   Tobacco: Disposition of Fees
   
10-908   Tobacco: Transfer of License
   
10-909   Tobacco: Reissuance of Revoked and Forfeited License
§ 10-901 TOBACCO; LICENSE FOR SALE; APPLICATION; CONTENTS; FEE.
(Ord. No. 466, 8/4/98; Repealed by Ord. No. 895, 7/2/15)
§ 10-902 TOBACCO; PRODUCT PLACEMENT.
   (1)   Findings and Intent. The City hereby declares that it is the policy of
the City to affirm the scientific evidence that the use of tobacco products is
causally connected to many diseases and is dangerous to human health. Placing
tobacco products out of the reach of children will reduce the likelihood of
children to use tobacco products.
   (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given.
      Nicotine Delivery Device. A device providing for the ingestion and/or
absorption of nicotine into the body such as patches, inhalers, chewing gum,
beverages containing nicotine, nasal spray and lozenges.
      Place of Business. A place where tobacco products are sold at retail,
including vending machines.
      Responsible Person. Any person, firm, association, company, partnership
or corporation or agent or employee of same who operates a store, stand, booth,
concession or other place at which tobacco sales are made to purchasers. A
responsible person as defined and applied herein must be an individual eighteen
(18) years or older.
      Tobacco or Nicotine Products. Cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies,
periques, granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking
tobacco, snuff, snuff flour, cavendish, plug and twist tobacco, fine cut and
other chewing tobacco, shorts, refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco or nicotine, and anything containing tobacco or any other
kinds and forms of tobacco prepared in such manner as to be suitable for either
chewing, smoking in a pipe, chewing and smoking, or inhaling and snorting
through the nose.
      Vending Machine. Any device or machine requiring the deposit of money or
other things of value, including any such device or machine activated or
operated by the vendor or by an employee or agent of the vendor.
      Vendor-Assisted Access. Access to tobacco, tobacco products or other
nicotine delivery devices only with the direct assistance of the vendor or a
vendor employee or agent, so that customers do not have direct access to take
possession of tobacco, tobacco products or other nicotine delivery devices
without direct assistance from the vendor or a vendor employee or agent. A
vendor or a vendor employee or agent must be at least eighteen (18) years or
older to sell tobacco.
   (3)   Certain Forms of Distribution Prohibited.
      (a)   It shall be unlawful to sell tobacco or nicotine products or
nicotine delivery devices in any form except original factory-wrapped packages.
The sale of single cigarettes is specifically prohibited.
      (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to give away,
hand out or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes or other tobacco
products, or coupons that can be redeemed for free samples of cigarettes or
other tobacco products or those that reduce the price of tobacco products,
anywhere within this jurisdiction.
      (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
         1.   Sell, permit to be sold or offer for sale tobacco, tobacco
products or nicotine delivery devices by means other than vendor-assisted
access;
         2.   Display tobacco, tobacco products or nicotine delivery devices in
a manner allowing customers access to tobacco, tobacco products or nicotine
delivery devices without vendor assistance; and
         3.   Shall prohibit the sale of tobacco or nicotine products through
the use of vending machines.
   (4)   Penalty and Culpability.
      (a)   The violation of any provision in this Article shall be punished by
a fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first offense under such
Article. The violation of any provision in this Article shall be punished by a
fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense after the first
offense. Each day any such violation shall continue, and each unlawful
transaction or occurrence, shall constitute a separate offense.
      (b)   There shall be no requirement of a culpable mental state for a
violation of this Article. (Ord. No. 742, 8/7/07)
§ 10-903 TOBACCO: LICENSE TO SELL: ISSUANCE.  
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material to persons twenty-one (21) years of
age or over shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability
companies, and corporations by the City Clerk upon application duly made as
provided in §
10-904. (Ref. 28-1421 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 895, 7/21/15; 1040, 7/21/
20; 1097, 12/7/21)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 10-904 TOBACCO: LICENSE APPLICATION.  
   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license under §§RS 28-1420 to 28-1429 RS Neb., shall file with the
City Clerk a written application stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company, or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with the
application the amount of the license fee provided in this chapter. If the
applicant is an individual, the application shall include the applicant’s
social security number. (Ref. 28-1422 RS Neb.) (As Amended by Ord. No. 895, 7/
21/15)
§ 10-905 TOBACCO: LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than one hundred fifty thousand
(150,000) cigars, packages of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery system,
and packages of tobacco in any form, at wholesale, shall pay a license fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00), and if such combined annual sales amount to less
than one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) cigars, packages of cigarettes,
electronic nicotine delivery system, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00). No wholesaler's license shall be
issued in any year on a less basis than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum
unless the applicant shall file with the application a statement duly sworn to
by himself or herself, or if applicant is a partnership, by a member of the
firm, or if a limited liability company, by a member or manager of the company,
or if a corporation, by an officer or manager thereof, that in the past such
wholesaler's combined sales of cigars, packages of cigarettes, electronic
nicotine delivery system, and packages of tobacco in every form have not
exceeded in the aggregate one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) annually and
that such sales will not exceed such aggregate amount for the current year for
which the license is to issue. Any person swearing falsely in such affidavit
shall be guilty of an offense, and such wholesaler's license shall be revoked
until the full license fee is paid.
   (D)   If application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year,
the fee shall be ½ of the fee provided in this section.
(Ref. 28-1423 RS Neb.) (As Amended by Ord. Nos. 895, 7/21/15; 1041, 7/21/20)
§ 10-906 TOBACCO: RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in sections 28-1421 and 28-1422 RS Neb.
shall, when issued, authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine
delivery systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material by the licensee and
employees, to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or over, at the place of
business described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the
license is forfeited as a result of court action as provided in section 28-1425
RS Neb. (Ref. 28-1424 RS Neb.)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to section 28-1425 RS
Neb., all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate. (Ref. 28-
1425 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 895, 7/21/15; 1042, 7/21/20; 1098, 12/7/21)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 21 prohibited; penalties, see section 28-1425 RS Neb.
§ 10-907 TOBACCO: DISPOSITION OF FEES.  
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the City Clerk to the treasurer of the school fund for
the City. (Ref. 28-1426 RS. Neb.) (As Amended by Ord. No. 895, 7/21/15)
§ 10-908 TOBACCO: TRANSFER OF LICENSE.  
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the City Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the purchaser.
In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the Clerk may
transfer such license to the new location. (Ref. 28-1428 RS Neb.) (As Amended
by Ord. No. 895, 7/21/15)
§ 10-909 TOBACCO: REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.  
   In the event that the license of a licensee hereunder shall be revoked and
forfeited as provided in §28-1425 RS Neb., no new license shall be issued to
such licensee until the expiration of one year from the date of such revocation
and forfeiture. (Ref. 28-1429 RS Neb.) (As Amended by Ord. No. 895, 7/21/15)
Article 10. Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments.
Section
   
10-1001   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; License Required
   
10-1002   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Application Fee
   
10-1003   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Definitions
   
10-1004   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Health and Sanitary
Requirements
   
10-1005   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Storing of Instruments
   
10-1006   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Sterilizing of Instruments
   
10-1007   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Use of Instruments
   
10-1008   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Incineration of Wastes
   
10-1009   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Records
   
10-1010   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Infections
   
10-1011   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Pigments and Dyes
   
10-1012   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Bandages and Surgical
Dressings
   
10-1013   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Certificate of Inspection
   
10-1014   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Inspections
   
10-1015   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Minors
   
10-1016   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Hours of Operation
   
10-1017   Tattoo and Body Piercing Establishments; Penalty
§ 10-1001 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating a
tattoo and/or a body piercing establishment without first obtaining a license
to engage in such business in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
(Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1002 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; APPLICATION FEE.
   An application for a new or renewal license shall be filed with the City
Clerk accompanied by a fee set by City Council. Upon payment of the license
fee, receipt of the application, and receipt of the certificate of inspection,
the City Clerk shall issue a license, valid for one (1) year from the date of
issuance, to the applicant, which he/she shall keep displayed in his/her place
of business at all times. Any change of ownership of the business licensed
shall require a new application and license, with payment of fees therefor.
(Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01) (Amended by Ord. No. 618, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1003 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them by this section:
   Certificate of Inspection: Written approval from the appropriate local,
regional or state health inspection agency/service that said tattooing and/or
body piercing establishment has been inspected and meets all of the terms of
this Article relating to operation, maintenance, physical facilities, equipment
and layout for operation of such business.
   Body Piercing: The act of penetrating the skin, excluding the earlobes, to
make generally permanent in nature, a hole, mark or scar.
   Health Inspection Agency: The local, regional or state health service
department/agency, working on behalf of the City, which is responsible for
health inspection services of a tattooing and/or Body Piercing establishment.
   Operator: Any individual, firm, company, corporation or association that
owns or operates an establishment where tattooing and/or body piercing is
performed and any individual who performs or practices the art of tattooing
and/or body piercing on the person of another.
   Tattoo: Any method of placing designs, letters, scrolls, figures, symbols or
any other marks upon or under the skin with ink or any other substance
resulting in the coloration of the skin by the aid of needles or any other
instruments designed to touch or puncture the skin. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1004 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; HEALTH AND SANITARY
REQUIREMENTS. 
   Each person who operates a tattooing and/or body piercing establishment
shall comply with the following requirements:
   (1)   The room in which tattooing and/or body piercing is done shall have an
area of not less than one hundred (100) square feet. The walls, floors and
ceiling shall have an impervious smooth and washable surface.
   (2)   A toilet shall be located in the establishment and shall be accessible
at all times that the tattooing and/or body piercing establishment is open for
business. A separate lavatory will be accessible to the operator to wash his/
her hands prior to applying a tattoo or body piercing to a patron. The lavatory
shall be supplied with hot and cold running water, soap and sanitary towels and
shall be cleaned and sanitized at least daily.
   (3)   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily
cleanable material, shall be painted or finished in a light color, with a
smooth washable finish, and shall be separated from waiting customers or
observers by a panel at least four (4) feet high or by a door.
   (4)   The entire premises and all equipment shall be maintained in a clean,
sanitary condition and in good repair.
   (5)   The operator shall wash his/her hands thoroughly with soap and water
before starting to tattoo and/or body pierce; the hands shall be dried with
individual, single-use towels. After washing his/her hands, the operator shall
rinse his/her hands in seventy percent (70%) alcohol (Rubbing Alcohol) or in an
antiseptic solution approved by the designated Health Inspection Agency. The
operator will then don new surgical gloves, and shall wear them while in
contact with the customer. Upon completion of his/her work on each customer,
the operator shall dispose of the gloves by incineration or autoclave. The
operator shall not perform service on more than one (1) person at a time; that
is, he/she shall commence and complete or terminate services with a customer,
prior to commencing work on another individual.
   (6)   No tattooing and/or body piercing shall be done on any skin surface
that has rash, pimples, boils, infections or manifests any evidence of
unhealthy conditions.
   (7)   No skin area shall be penetrated, abraded or treated with chemicals
for the purpose of removing, camouflaging or altering any blemish, birthmark or
scar. In the event a tattoo is changed, a record must be made and be kept in
the client’s record.
   (8)   Only disposable razors with a new, single-service blade shall be used
on each customer or patron and then shall be sterilized and disposed of as soon
as possible by incineration.
   (9)   The area to be tattooed and/or pierced shall first be thoroughly
washed for a period of two (2) minutes with warm water to which has been added
an antiseptic liquid soap. A sterile single-use sponge shall be used to scrub
the area. After shaving and before tattooing and/or piercing is begun, a
solution of seventy percent (70%) alcohol shall be applied to the area with a
single-use sponge used and applied with a sterile instrument. Sponges shall be
disposed of by sterilization and incineration.
   (10) Only sterile petroleum jelly in single-service disposable containers,
if available, or collapsible metal or plastic tubes, or equivalent as approved
by the Health Inspection Agency, shall be used on the area to be tattooed and/
or pierced and it shall be applied with sterile gauze which shall then be
discarded and disposed of by incineration or autoclave. Petroleum jelly or an
approved alternate substance shall not be applied directly with the fingers.
   (11) The use of styptic pencils, alum blocks or other solid styptic to check
the flow of blood is prohibited.
   (12) Inquiry shall be made of each customer, and anyone giving a history of
jaundice, hepatitis, lymphadenopathy or lymphadenitis (swelling of lymph nodes
), aids (HIV+) positive, or a history of blood donation exclusion (for other
than hypertension and immediate illness) may not be tattooed and/or body
pierced. Inquiry shall be recorded on an appropriate form which shall be
executed by the customer and operator, and retained by the licensee for a
period of not less than five (5) years.
   (13) Single-service individual containers of dye or ink shall be used for
each patron, and the container therefor shall be discarded immediately after
completing work on a patron and any dye in which the needles were dipped shall
not be used on another person. Excess dye or ink shall be removed from the skin
with an individual sterile sponge or a disposable paper tissue which shall be
used only on one (1) person and then immediately discarded and disposed of with
other hazardous medical waste. After completing work on any person, the
tattooed and/or pierced area shall be washed with sterile gauze saturated with
an antiseptic soap solution approved by the Health Inspection Agency, or a
seventy percent (70%) alcohol solution. The tattooed and/or pierced area shall
be allowed to dry and sterile petroleum jelly from a single-service disposable
container, if available, or from collapsible metal or plastic tubes, shall be
applied, using sterile gauze. A sterile gauze dressing shall then be fastened
to the tattooed area and/or the pierced area with adhesive as needed.
   (14) All tattoo and/or body piercing work shall be performed with a single-
service sterile needle, which shall be disposed of immediately after use on one
(1) customer by sterilization and incineration. The operator shall not remove
tattoos, nor shall they be done over the site of obviously recent hypodermic
injections. A singe-service tube should be used in conjunction with a new
needle. After use, the tube shall be sterilized.
   (15) Operator is responsible for issuing after-care instructions for each
tattooing and body piercing.
   (16) No animals may be kept or allowed in the place of business at any time.
   (17) Private residences or dwelling units are prohibited in the place of
business unless the tattooing and/or body piercing operation is conducted in a
separate and district location from the normal living quarters of a residential
dwelling. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1005 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; STORING OF INSTRUMENTS.
    All clean and ready-to-use needles and instruments shall be kept in a
closed glass or metal case or storage cabinet while not in use. Such cabinet
shall be maintained in a sanitary manner at all times. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1006 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; STERILIZING OF INSTRUMENTS.
   (1)   Preparation of Instruments for Sterilization. After each tattoo job,
the tattoo machine shall be placed in an ultrasonic type machine to remove the
excess dye from the tubes and needle bars. When this process is completed the
tubes and needle bars shall be removed from the tattoo machines. They shall
then be placed into a covered container for sterilization by autoclaving.
   (2)   Sterilizing of Instruments.
      (a)   A steam sterilizer (autoclave) shall be provided for sterilizing of
all needles and similar instruments before use on any customer, person or
patron. (Alternate sterilizing procedures may only be used when specifically
approved by the Health Inspection Agency.) Sterilization of equipment will be
accomplished by exposure to live steam for at least sixty (60) minutes at a
minimum pressure of fifteen (15) pounds per square inch, temperature of two
hundred fifty (250) degrees Fahrenheit or one hundred twenty-one (121) degrees
Celsius.
      (b)   All needle bars, grips, tubes and instruments which pierce the skin
directly, or come in contact with instruments which pierce the skin, shall be
sterilized before use on each customer by autoclaving for at least fifteen (15)
minutes at a minimum pressure of fifteen (15) pounds per square inch,
temperature of two hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (250) or one hundred
twenty-one degrees Celsius (121). (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1007 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; USE OF INSTRUMENTS.  
   The needles and instruments required to be sterilized shall be so used,
handled and temporarily placed during tattooing and/or body piercing so that
they will not be contaminated. Each operator should have a minimum of eight (8)
sets of tubes. (A set consists of 1 outliner, 1 shade). (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1008 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; INCINERATION OF WASTES.
    All used items and equipment must be autoclaved at least fifteen (15)
minutes at a minimum pressure of fifteen (15) pounds per square inch,
temperature of two hundred fifty (250) degrees Fahrenheit or one hundred
twenty-one (121) degrees Celsius and then discarded in double-lined plastic
bags into a clean closable receptacle, and shall be incinerated as soon as
possible after use. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1009 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; RECORDS.   
   (1)   Permanent records for each patron or customer shall be maintained by
the licensee or operator of the establishment. Before the tattooing and/or body
piercing operation begins, the patron or customer shall be required personally
to enter, on a record form provided for such establishments, the date, his/her
name, address, age, driver’s license number or other acceptable photo
identification, the responses to the inquiries set forth in section 10-1004
(12), and his/her signature. A copy of the driver’s license or photo
identification shall be attached to and retained with the permanent record.
   (2)   Daily logs must be kept detailing sterilization of instruments.
   (3)   All such records required to be retained shall be kept by the operator
or licensee for a period of not less than five (5) years. In the event of a
change of ownership or closing the business, all such records shall be made
available to the Health Inspection Agency or law enforcement officer of the
City upon request. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1010 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; INFECTIONS.
   No person, customer or patron having any skin infection or other disease of
the skin or any communicable disease shall be tattooed and/or body pierced. All
infections resulting from the practice of tattooing and/or body piercing which
become known to the operator shall promptly be reported to the Health
Inspection Agency by the person owning or operating the tattooing and/or body
piercing establishment, and the infected client shall be referred to a
physician. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1011 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; PIGMENTS AND DYES.
   All pigments, dyes, colors, etc. used in tattooing shall be sterile and free
from bacteria, virus particles and noxious agents and substances, and the
pigments, dyes and colors used from stock solutions for each customer or patron
shall be placed in a single-service receptacle and such receptacle and
remaining solution shall be discarded and disposed of after use on each
customer or patron. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1012 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; BANDAGES AND SURGICAL
DRESSINGS.
   All bandages and surgical dressings used in connection with the tattooing
and/or body piercing of a person shall be sterile. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1013 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; CERTIFICATE OF
INSPECTION.   
   An applicant for license to operate a tattooing and/or body piercing
establishment shall first obtain a certificate of inspection from the Health
Inspection Agency, indicating the establishment has been inspected and is in
compliance with the provisions of this Article. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1014 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Inspection Agency shall conduct periodic inspections of any
tattooing and/or body piercing establishment for the purpose of determining
whether or not said establishment, and the persons performing the art of
tattooing and/or body piercing thereon, are in compliance with all applicable
health provisions contained within this Article and other pertinent ordinances,
at least once each calendar year. It shall be unlawful for any person or
operator of a tattooing and/or body piercing establishment willfully to prevent
or restrain the Health Inspection Agency from entering any licensed
establishment where tattooing and/or body piercing is being performed for the
purpose of inspecting said premises, after proper identification is presented
to the operator. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1015 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; MINORS.
   No person in the City shall tattoo and/or body pierce any unmarried minor
under the age of eighteen (18) years unless the parent, guardian or other
person having charge and custody of said minor shall first have given his/her
written consent to such tattooing and/or body piercing of such minor. The
identity of the consenting party shall be verified by driver’s license number
or other acceptable photo identification. The written consent must be signed at
the tattooing and/or body piercing establishment by the parent, guardian or
other person having charge and custody of said minor. A copy of the driver’s
license or photo identification shall be attached to and retained with the
written consent. The burden for ensuring compliance with this section shall be
on the operator. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1016 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; HOURS OF OPERATION.
    Operators of tattoo and/or body piercing businesses shall not commence new
tattoo and/or body piercing work after the hour of ten o’clock (10:00) PM.
(Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
§ 10-1017 TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS; PENALTY.
   In addition to the revocation and suspension of any license, any person
violating any provisions of this Article shall be punished in accordance with
the penalties set forth in section 10-1101 of this code. (Ord. No. 519, 8/7/01)
Article 11. Sexually Oriented Businesses
Section
   
10-1101   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Purpose and Intent
   
10-1102   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Definitions
   
10-1103   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Classification
   
10-1104   Sexually Oriented Businesses; License Required
   
10-1105   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Issuance of License
   
10-1106   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Fees
   
10-1107   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Inspection
   
10-1108   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Expiration of License
   
10-1109   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Suspension
   
10-1110   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Revocation
   
10-1111   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Conduct in Sexually Oriented Business
   
10-1112   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Appeal
   
10-1113   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Transfer of License
   
10-1114   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Location of Sexually Oriented
Businesses
   
10-1115   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Appeals; Exemption from Location
Restrictions
   
10-1116   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Signs for Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
10-1117   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Hours of Operation
   
10-1118   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Additional Regulations for Escort
Agencies
   
10-1119   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Additional Regulations and Exemptions
for Nude Model Studios
   
10-1120   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Additional Regulations for Adult
Theaters and Adult Motion-picture Theaters
   
10-1121   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Additional Regulations for Adult Motels
   
10-1122   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Regulations Pertaining to Exhibition of
Sexually Explicit Films or Videos
   
10-1123   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Display of Sexually Explicit Material
to Minors
   
10-1124   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Manager's License Required: Change of
Manager; Inactive Status
   
10-1125   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Application for Manager's License
   
10-1126   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Expiration of Manager's License
   
10-1127   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Suspension of Manager's License
   
10-1128   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Revocation of Manager's License
   
10-1129   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Violations and Penalties
   
10-1130   Sexually Oriented Businesses; Injunction
§ 10-1101 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this Article to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of
the City, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
concentration of sexually oriented businesses within the City’s jurisdiction.
The provisions of this Article have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing
a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this Article to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1102 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; DEFINITIONS.    
   As used in this Article, the following terms shall have the meaning
indicated.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug- operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion-picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
   (1)   A commercial establishment which as one of its principal business
purposes offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one (1) or
more of the following:
      (A)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which depict or describe “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; and/or
      (B)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with “specified sexual activities”.
   (2)   A commercial establishment is not exempt from being categorized as an
ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one (1) of its principal
business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the
specified materials which depict or describe “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT CABARET. A night club, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
   (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity; or
   (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “
   (3)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed- circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”; and has a sign visible from the public right-
of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
   (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours; or
   (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
   ADULT MOTION-PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
   ADULT STORE.   
   (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one (1) of its principal business
purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration instruments,
devices, “adult toys,” or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with “specified sexual activities.”
   (2)   A commercial establishment is not exempt from being categorized as an
ADULT STORE so long as one (1) of its principal business purposes is the
offering for sale of instruments, devices, “adult toys,” or paraphernalia which
are designed for use in connection with “specified sexual activities.”
ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
BUSINESS. An enterprise or entrepreneurial activity located in the City’s
jurisdiction which includes all types of vocations, occupations, professions,
enterprises, establishments (including sales of tangible personal property and
furnishing of services), together with all devices, machines, vehicles and
appurtenances used therein, any of which are conducted for private profit,
gain, pecuniary benefit or advantage, either directly or indirectly.
CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the City of Springfield or its
designated agent.
CITY. City of Springfield, Nebraska located in Sarpy County.
EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip or other consideration.
ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
   (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business.
   (2)   The conversion of any existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business.
   (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business.
   (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
EXPIRATION DATE. Midnight of the date one (1) year after the license was
issued.
LICENSE YEAR. The period from the date of issuance to one (1) year after the
license was issued.
LICENSEE. Any person, individual, partnership, corporation, firm, estate,
trust, association, joint venture or other entity which a license to operate a
sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as those listed as an
applicant on the application for a license.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
displays “specific anatomical areas” is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
who pay money or any form of consideration.
NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
   (1)   The appearance of a human bare buttocks, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or female breasts; or
   (2)   The state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals or areola of the female breast.
OPERATES OR CAUSES TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in
operation. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner
or licensee of the business.
PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association or
other legal entity.
PREMISES. All lands, structures, lodges, stores, offices, sales rooms,
warehouses and the equipment and appurtenances connected or used therewith in
any business, and also any personal property which is either affixed to or is
otherwise used in connection with any such business within the City’s
jurisdiction which is owned, leased or occupied by the business.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS PURPOSE. (Factors Determining) A primary factor which shall
be considered in determining the principal business purpose shall be whether
the business publicly advertises such materials either through media or signs
located on the exterior of its premises or signs located inside the business
that can be seen from the exterior. Additional factors which may be considered
are the gross income generated by adult materials compared to overall gross
income, and the amount of floor space, both retail and storage, devoted to
adult materials.
SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the genitals,
pubic region and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of the body
covered by supporting straps or devices.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
   (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between the
opposite sex; or
   (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one (1) or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion-picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means and includes any of the following:
   (1)   Human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a
point immediately above the top of the areola, that are not completely and
opaquely covered; or
   (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
   (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breasts;
   (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
   (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   (4)   Excretory functions as part of an or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections (1) through (3) above.
SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. Of a sexually oriented business means the increase in
floor area occupied by the business by more than twenty-five percent (25%) as
the floor area exists.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Of a sexually oriented business means and
includes any of the following:
   (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
   (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1103 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as they exist on the effective
date of this Article as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion-picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I) Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1104 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he operates a sexually oriented
business without a valid license, issued by the City for the particular type of
business.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
City Clerk. The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
(6) inches. Applicants who must comply with section 10-1121 shall submit a
diagram meeting the requirements of section 10-1121.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
Article and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the City Health Official or its designated agent; by the City Fire
Official or its designated agent; and of the City Building Officials or its
designated agents.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he must sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under section 10-1105, and each applicant shall be
considered as a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The fact that a person possesses a valid theater license, dance hall
license or public house or amusement license does not exempt him from the
requirement of obtaining a sexually oriented business license. A person who
operates a sexually oriented business and possesses a theater license, public
house of amusement license or dance hall license shall comply with the
requirements and provisions of this Article as well as the requirements and
provisions of applicable City ordinances and state statutes. (Ord. No. 617, 6/
17/03)
§ 10-1105 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City shall approve the issuance of a license to an applicant
within sixty (60) days after receipt of an application unless the Chief of
Police, or his/her designate, finds one (1) or more of the following to be
true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue in payment to the
City of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the
applicant or the applicant’s spouse in relation to a sexually oriented
business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      (4) An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
violation of a provision of this Article, other than the offense of operating a
sexually oriented business without a license, within two years (2) immediately
preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect.
      (5)   The license fee required by this Article has not been paid.
      (6)   An applicant has been employed in a sexually oriented business in a
managerial capacity within the preceding twelve (12) months and has
demonstrated an inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented business
premises in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
      (7)   An applicant, or the proposed establishment, is in violation of or
is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this Article.
      (8)   The proposed establishment is in nonconformance to City Building
and Zoning Codes.
      (9)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
crime:
         (a)   Involving:
            1.   Any of the following offenses as described in sections 28-801
et seq. RS Neb.:
               a.   Prostitution.
               b.   Promotion of prostitution.
               c.   Aggravated promotion of prostitution.
               d.   Compelling prostitution.
               e.   Obscenity.
               f.   Sale, distribution or display of harmful material to
minors.
               g.   Sexual performance by a child.
               h.   Possession of child pornography.
            2.   Any of the following offenses as described in Nebraska
Statutes:
               a.   Public lewdness.
               b.   Indecent exposure.
               c.   Indecency with a child.
            3.   Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault as described in
Nebraska Statutes.
            4.   Incest, solicitation of a child or harboring a runaway child
as described in Nebraska Statutes.
            5.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses.
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction
if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the
last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or
more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring
within any twenty-four (24) month period.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed has no effect on the
disqualification of the applicant or applicant’s spouse under subsection (A) of
this section.
   (C)   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted
of an offense listed in subsection (A)(9)(a) of this section may qualify for a
sexually oriented business license only when the time period required by
subsection (A)(9)(b) of this section has elapsed.
   (D)   Upon approving issuance of a sexually oriented business license, the
City Clerk shall send to the applicant, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, written notice of that action and state where the applicant must pay
the license fee and obtain the license. The issuance of a license does not
authorize the applicant to operate a sexually oriented business until the
applicant has paid all fees required by this Article and obtained possession of
the license.
   (E)   The license, if granted, must state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of the
sexually oriented business. The license must be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be
easily read at any time.
   (F)   In the event that the Police Department of the City, or its designate,
cannot conduct a thorough and reasonable investigation of the applicant(s)
within sixty (60) days after receipt of an application, the time in which said
application shall be considered by the City shall be extended until a
reasonable and thorough background investigation has been completed.
   (G)   The applicant, or its representatives, shall appear before the City at
the time scheduled for consideration of the application by the City.
   (H)   The Zoning Administrator, City Health Official or its designated
agent; the City Fire Official or its designated agent; and the City Building
Officials or its designated agents shall complete their certification that the
premises is in compliance or not in compliance within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the application.
   (I)   Applicants for a sexually oriented business license shall have a
continuing duty to promptly supplement any application information required by
that section in the event that said information changes in any way from what is
stated on the application. Failure to comply with said continuing duty to
supplement an application within thirty (30) days from the date of such change
shall be grounds for suspension of a sexually oriented business license. (Ord.
No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1106 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; FEES. 
   (A)   A sexually oriented business must pay an application fee at the time
of application.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business shall pay an annual fee. Said fee shall
be due on the anniversary of the date of permit issuance.
   (C)   All fees for a sexually oriented business shall be established by the
City Council.
   (D)   For continuous business it shall be the duty of each licensee to
obtain an annual renewal of such license and pay the annual fee to the City
Clerk on or before the expiration date.
   (E)   License fees are not refundable upon denial or withdrawal of the
application. License fees shall be based on a full calendar year and shall not
be prorated.
   (F)   All license fees received hereunder by the City Clerk, shall be
promptly deposited to the credit of the City’s General Fund. (Ord. No. 617, 6/
17/03)
§ 10-1107 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; INSPECTION.   
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the City
Police Department or its designated agent, the City Health Department or its
designated agent, the City Fire Department or its designated agent, the City
Department of Streets, Sanitation and Code Enforcement Services or its
designated agent and the City Building Officials or its designated agent to
inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business, for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his/her agent or
employee commits an offense f he refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the
premises by a representative of the Police Department at any time it is
occupied or open for business.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1108 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license expires one (1) year from the date of issuance, except that a
license issued pursuant to a locational restriction expires on the date the
exemption expires. A license may be renewed only by making application as
provided in section 10-1104. Application for renewal should be made at least
sixty (60) days before the expiration date, and when made less than sixty (60)
days before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be
affected by the pendency of the application. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1109 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The City shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed sixty (60)
days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of the licensee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this Article.
      (2)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the
sexually oriented business premises.
      (3) Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this Article.
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises.
      (5)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law- abiding manner, thus necessitating action by
law enforcement officers.
   (B)   The determination by the City as to the existence or noncompliance
with the above matters shall be made in an open session after having given the
applicant or license holder or its representatives fifteen (15) days’ written
notice of said hearing, and at said hearing the license holder or its
representatives may present oral or written evidence in support of the
continuance of its license and may confront and question any witnesses or
evidence in opposition to the continuation of its license. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/
03)
§ 10-1110 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in section
10-1109 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding twelve
(12) months.
   (B)   The City shall revoke a license if the Chief of Police determines
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the Chief of Police during the application process.
      (2)   A licensee or employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises.
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises.
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operates the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended.
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in section
10-1105(A)(9)(a) for which the time period required in section
10-1105(A)(9)(b) has not elapsed.
      (6)   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises
of a crime listed in section
10-1105(A)(9)(a) for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at the time the
offenses were committed.
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation. or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises. The licensee shall not be issued a sexually
oriented business license for one (1) year from the date revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the Chief of Police finds that the
basis for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be
granted a license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date of
revocation became effective. If the license was revoked under subsection (B)(5)
above, an applicant may not be granted another license until the appropriate
number of years required under section
10-1105(A)(9)(b) has elapsed.
      (8)   The determination by the City as to the existence or noncompliance
with the above matters shall be made in an open hearing after having given the
applicant or license holder or its representatives fifteen (15) days’ written
notice of said hearing, and at said hearing the license holder or its
representatives may present oral or written evidence in support of the
continuance of its license and may confront and question any witnesses or
evidence in opposition to the continuation of its license.
   (C)   Also see section
10-123 of this Code for grounds for revocation and suspension of alcoholic
beverage licenses. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1111 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; CONDUCT IN SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   No licensee, manager, or employee mingling with the patrons of a
sexually oriented business, or serving food or drinks, shall be in a state of
nudity. It is a defense to any prosecution for a violation of this subsection
that an employee of a sexually oriented business exposed any specified
anatomical area only during the employee’s bona fide use of a restroom or
during the employee’s bona fide use of a dressing room that is accessible only
to employees.
   (B)   No licensee, manager or employee shall encourage or knowingly permit
any person upon the premises to touch, caress, or fondle the genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or breasts of any person.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any employee of a sexually oriented business
to receive tips from patrons except as follows:
      (1)   A licensee that desires to provide for tips from its patrons shall
establish one (1) or more boxes or other containers to receive tips. All tips
for such employees shall be placed by the patron of the sexually oriented
business into the tip box.
      (2)   A sexually oriented business that provides for tips from its
patrons as provided in this section shall post one (1) or more signs to be
conspicuously visible to the patrons on the premises, in bold letters at least
one inch high to read as follows:
“All tips are to be placed in the tip box and not handed directly to employees.
Any physical contact between a patron and employees is strictly prohibited.”
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a minor to enter an adult arcade, adult
cabaret, adult motion-picture theater, adult theater, or a sexual encounter
center. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1112 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; APPEAL.
   If the City denies the issuance of a license, or suspends or revokes a
license, the City Clerk shall send to the applicant, or licensee, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, written notice of the action and the right to
an appeal. Upon receipt of written notice of the denial, suspension or
revocation, the licensee whose application for a license has been denied or
whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the right to appeal to
the City Council. An appeal to the City Council trust be filed within thirty
(30) days after the receipt of notice of the decision of the Chief of Police.
The licensee shall bear the burden of proof in said appeal. (Ord. No. 617, 6/
17/03)
§ 10-1113 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; TRANSFER OF LICENSE.   
   A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application. (Ord. No.
617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1114 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESSES.
   See Springfield Municipal Zoning Regulations. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1115 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; APPEALS; EXEMPTION FROM LOCATION
RESTRICTIONS.
   See Springfield Municipal Zoning Regulations. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1116 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; SIGNS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESSES. 
   See Springfield Municipal Zoning Regulations. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1117 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses, excluding adult motels, shall operate between
the hours of 10:00 a.m. through 1:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday, and 12:00
noon through 1:00 a.m. Sundays. These criteria are to serve as the maximum
hours of operation. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1118 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT
AGENCIES. 
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he/she acts as an escort or agrees to
act as an escort for any person under the age of nineteen (19) years. (Ord. No.
617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1119 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
nineteen (19) years.
   (B)   A person under the age of nineteen (19) years commits an offense if
he/she appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection if the person
under nineteen (19) years was in a restroom not open to public view or persons
of the opposite sex.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he/she appears in a state of nudity or
knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
   (E)   It is a defense to prosecution under this Article that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state or a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one (1) nude model is on the premises at any
one time. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1120 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT
THEATERS AND ADULT MOTION-PICTURE THEATERS.   
   (A)   The requirements and provisions of this Code remain applicable to
adult theaters and adult motion- picture theaters.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he/she knowingly allows a person under
the age of nineteen (19) years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the
premises of an adult theater or adult motion-picture theater.
   (C)   A person under the age of nineteen (19) years commits an offense if
he/she knowingly appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of an adult
theater of adult motion-picture theater.
   (D)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsections (B) and (C) of this
section if the person under nineteen (19) years was in a restroom not open to
public view or persons of the opposite sex. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1121 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT
MOTELS. 
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a period of
time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this Article.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, he/she rents or subrents a sleeping room to
a person and, within (ten) 10 hours from the time the room is rented, he/she
rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of subsection (B) of this section, the terms “rent” or
“subrent” mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1122 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF
SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR VIDEOS.   
   (A) A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a
film, videocassette or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one (1) or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street and should be drawn to a
designated scale with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal
dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus
or minus six (6) inches. The Municipal Zoning Administrator or his/her designee
may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant
adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Municipal Zoning
Administrator or his/her designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one (1) employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purposes,
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two (2) or more manager’s stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one (1) of the manager’s stations. The
view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in subsection (A)(5) of this section remains
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
at all times that any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no
patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to subsection (A)(1) of this section.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 5.0 footcandle, as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under subsections (A)(1) through (8) above
commits an offense if he/she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty. (Ord. No.
617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1123 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL
TO MINORS. 
   (A)   A person commits an offense if, in a business establishment open to
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years, he/she displays a book, pamphlet,
newspaper, magazine, film or videocassette, the cover of which depicts, in a
manner calculated to arouse sexual lust or passion for commercial gain or to
exploit sexual lust or perversion for commercial gain, any of the following:
      (1)   Human sexual intercourse, masturbation or sodomy,
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (3)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, buttocks
or that portion of the female breast below the top of the areola; or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, whether covered
or uncovered.
   (B)   In this section, “display” means to locate an item in such a manner
that, without obtaining assistance from an employee of the business
establishment:
      (1)   It is available to the general public for handling and inspection;
or
      (2)   The cover or outside packaging on the item is visible to members of
the general public. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1124 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; MANAGER’S LICENSE REQUIRED: CHANGE OF
MANAGER; INACTIVE STATUS.
   (A)   A manager or designee shall be on the premises of a sexually oriented
business at all times during operation. It shall be unlawful for any person to
work as a manager of a sexually oriented business without first obtaining a
manager’s license for such premises.
   (B)   In the event a manager ceases to be employed at the premises listed in
his/her application, the manager shall immediately report such change to the
City Clerk but in no event shall such change be reported later than ten (10)
days after cessation of employment.
   (C)   Provided a manager has complied with the requirements of subsection
(B) of this section, his/her license shall remain in inactive status until it
expires or is reactivated. A manager who is reemployed at the premises listed
in the manager’s license may reactivate his/her license provided the licensing
officer determines he/she still meets the requirements of section 10-1125.
(Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1125 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; APPLICATION FOR MANAGER’S LICENSE.
    (A)   A manager shall submit an application for a manager’s license for
each sexually oriented business the manager proposes to manage on a form to be
provided by the City Clerk.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall conduct an investigation of the applicant to
determine if the applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act
within the times set forth in section 10-1105(A)(9)(b).
   (C)   The licensing officer shall grant the application within sixty (60)
days of its filing unless:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide the information required;
      (2)   The license fee has not been paid;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act within
the times set forth in section 10-1105(A)(9)(b). (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1126 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; EXPIRATION OF MANAGER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   Each manager’s license shall expire one (1) year from the date of
issuance and may be renewed only by making application as provided in section
10-1125, including but not limited to a review of whether the applicant has
been convicted of a specified criminal act or acts. Application for renewal of
a manager’s license shall be made at least sixty (60) days before the
expiration date of the manager’s license.
   (B)   If, subsequent to denial of renewal the City finds that the basis for
denial of the renewal of the manager’s license has been corrected, the
applicant shall be granted a manager’s license if no more than ninety (90) days
have elapsed since the date denial became final. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1127 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; SUSPENSION OF MANAGER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   The City may suspend a manager’s license for a period not to exceed
ninety (90) days, unless the period is extended by operation of subsection (B)
of this section, if he/she determines that the manager has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this Article
or any provision of this Code; or
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this Article; or
      (3)   Knowingly allowed repeated disturbances of the public peace to
occur within the licensed establishment or upon the premises of the licensed
establishment involving patrons, employees, or the licensee; or
      (4)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours
of operation provided by law.
   (B)   The suspension shall remain in effect until and including the last day
in the City’s order and until the violation of the statute, code, ordinance, or
regulation in question has been corrected. (Ord. No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1128 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; REVOCATION OF MANAGER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   The City shall revoke a manager’s license upon determining that:
      (1)   A cause of suspension in section 10-1127 of this Article occurred
and the manager’s license has been suspended within the preceding twelve (12)
months; or
      (2)   The manager gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant’s
opportunity for obtaining a manager’s license; or
      (3)   The manager knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of a
controlled substance on the premises; or
      (4)   The manager knowingly allowed acts of prostitution or negotiations
for acts of prostitution on the premises; or
      (5)   The manager knowingly operated the sexually oriented business
during a period of time when the sexually oriented business license was
suspended; or
      (6)   The manager has been convicted of a specified criminal act for
which the time period set forth in section 10-1105(A)(9)(b) has not elapsed; or
      (7)   The manager has knowingly allowed any specified sexual activity to
occur in or on the licensed premises.
   (B)   When the City revokes a manager’s license, the revocation shall
continue for one (1) year and the licensee shall not be issued a manager’s
license for one (1) year from the date revocation became effective. (Ord. No.
617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1129 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of any Article
or section of this Article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Unless
otherwise specified in the particular section for which the person stands
convicted of violating, the penalty for such violation shall be a fine in any
sum not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for a term
not to exceed six (6) months, or both said fine and imprisonment at the
discretion of the sentencing court. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply. (Ord.
No. 617, 6/17/03)
§ 10-1130 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid license or in violation of this Article or any other laws and
regulations including all city, state and federal laws, is subject to a suit
for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. (Ord. No. 617,
6/17/03)
Article 12. Mobile Home Parks
Section
   
10-1201   Mobile Home Parks; Definitions
   
10-1202   Mobile Home Parks; Enforcement of Article
   
10-1203   Mobile Home Parks; Penalties; Civil Remedies
   
10-1204   Mobile Home Parks; License Required; Application; Term; Fees; Renewal
   
10-1205   Mobile Home Parks; License, New; Recommendations by City Staff;
Inspection of Premises; Issuance; Scope
   
10-1206   Mobile Home Parks; License Renewal; Recommendations by City Staff;
Inspection of Premises; Issuance; Scope
   
10-1207   Mobile Home Parks; License; Revocation
   
10-1208   Mobile Home Parks; Location; Land Use; Design of Mobile Home Parks
   
10-1209   Mobile Home Parks; Water Supply and Distribution
   
10-1210   Mobile Home Parks; Water Supply and Distribution; Waste and Sewage
Disposal; Existing Non-compliance
   
10-1211   Mobile Home Parks; Refuse Disposal
   
10-1212   Mobile Home Parks; Waste and Sewage Disposal
   
10-1213   Mobile Home Parks; Electricity
   
10-1214   Mobile Home Parks; Gas Systems
   
10-1215   Mobile Home Parks; Fuel
   
10-1216   Mobile Home Parks; Fire Protection
   
10-1217   Mobile Home Parks; Alterations; Repairs; Additions
   
10-1218   Mobile Home Parks; Restrictions on Pets
   
10-1219   Mobile Home Parks; Duties of Owner or Manager
   
10-1220 Mobile Home Parks; Limitations on Number of Occupants per Trailer
§ 10-1201 MOBILE HOME PARKS; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on its
own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a permanent
foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one (1) or more units that
can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity, or of
two (2) or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
(1) integral unit.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A designated portion of a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one (1) mobile home and its accessory buildings or structures
for the exclusive use of the occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which have been so
designated and improved that it contains two (2) or more mobile home lots
available to the general public for the placement thereon of mobile homes for
occupancy. MOBILE HOME PARK shall not be construed to include mobile homes,
buildings, tents, or other structures temporarily maintained by any individual,
corporation, limited liability company, company, or other entity on its own
premises and used exclusively to house its own labor force. MOBILE HOME PARK
shall include all auxiliary buildings used or intended for use as part of the
equipment thereof, whether a charge is made for the use of the mobile home park
and its facilities or not.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. A sewer system owned, operated or otherwise utilized by
the state, a municipality or any other governmental agency or political
subdivision, federal governmental agencies being excepted.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A system for providing the public with water for
human consumption through pipes or, after August 5, 1998, other constructed
conveyances, if such system has at least fifteen (15) service connections or
regularly serves an average of at least twenty-five (25) individuals daily at
least sixty (60) days per year. PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM includes (a) any
collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under control of
the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with such system
and (b) any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such
control which are used primarily in connection with such system. PUBLIC WATER
SYSTEM does not include a special irrigation district. A public water system is
either a community water system or a non-community water system.
   Service connection does not include a connection to a system that delivers
water by a constructed conveyance other than a pipe if:
      (1)   The water is used exclusively for purposes other than residential
uses, consisting of drinking, bathing, cooking, and other similar uses,
      (2)   The Department determines that alternative water to achieve the
equivalent level of public health protection provided by the Nebraska Safe
Drinking Water Act and rules and regulations under the Act is provided for
residential or similar uses for drinking and cooking, or
      (3)   The Department determines that the water provided for residential
or similar uses for drinking, cooking, and bathing is centrally treated or
treated at the point of entry by the provider, a pass-through entity, or the
user to achieve the equivalent level of protection provided by the Nebraska
Safe Drinking Water Act and the rules and regulations under the Act.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which unit either has
its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle. RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE includes, but is not limited to, travel trailer, park trailer, camping
trailer, truck camper, motor home and van conversion.
   SEWER LINES. Includes sewer mains and sewer service lines.
   SEWER MAIN. Includes the principal pipe artery to which service lines are
connected.
   SEWER SERVICE LINE. Includes any part of the piping system except a riser,
main or stack.
   STACK. A general term for any vertical line of soil, waste, vent, or inside
conductor piping that extends through at least one story with or without
offsets.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use, and
equipped for the road. It has a body width not exceeding eight (8) feet and a
body length not exceeding thirty-eight (38) feet. It may be self-contained with
a bath and toilet facilities or classified as a dependent type without bath and
toilet facilities. Any regulations that apply to travel trailers will also
apply to campers mounted on a truck chassis, tents, or tent-type trailers.
(Ref. 71-4603, 71-4621 RS Neb.; Neb. Admin. Rules & Regs. Title 178, Ch. 5 §
001) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1202 MOBILE HOME PARKS; ENFORCEMENT OF ARTICLE.
   (1)   For the purpose of securing enforcement, any designated agent of the
City shall have the right and is hereby empowered to enter upon any premises,
on which any mobile home is located, or about to be located, and inspect the
same and all accommodations connected therewith; provided that no such
designated agent shall enter upon any premises for the purposes described in
this Article in violation of the statutory or constitutional rights of the
owner or occupant thereof A twenty-four (24) hour notice shall be given to the
owner or manager of said park prior to entering the premise, for non-emergency
inspections. The office of the City is further empowered to recommend to the
City Council the issuance of orders granting, renewing and revoking such
permits and licenses as are provided for in accordance with the provisions of
this Article for premises within the limits of the City.
   (2)   The Mayor of the City is hereby vested with the power and jurisdiction
to enforce all provisions of this Article outside of the corporate limits but
within the City’s extraterritorial jurisdiction. The Mayor is further empowered
to recommend to the City Council the issuance of orders granting, renewing and
revoking such permits and licenses as are provided for in accordance with the
provisions of this Article for premises outside of the corporate limits but
within one (1) mile of the corporate limits of the City.
   (3)   For the purpose of administering the powers vested in the Mayor by
paragraph (2) above, the designated agent of the City may be his agent to
administer the provisions of this Article and to make any required inspections
or recommendations concerning mobile home parks outside of the corporate limits
of the City. (Ref. 17-505, 17-604, 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1203 MOBILE HOME PARKS; PENALTIES; CIVIL REMEDIES.
   Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of this Article shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; their license may be revoked, and they may be
punished as provided in this Code; provided, that the foregoing provision shall
not be construed to preclude any other remedies. In addition thereto, the
appropriate authorities of the City may institute injunction, mandamus or other
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent unlawful erection, construction,
alteration, conversion or use, or to correct or abate such violation, or to
prevent the occupancy of the structures or land concerned.  (Ref. 17-505 Neb.)
(Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1204 MOBILE HOME PARKS; LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; TERM; FEES;
RENEWAL.
    (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate or maintain
or permit to be established, operated or maintained upon any property owned or
controlled by him, a mobile home park without having first secured a license
therefore and for each of them from the City Council. Such license shall be
granted and existing in compliance with the terms of this Article and any other
applicable ordinance. Such license shall expire on May 1, following the date of
its issuance but may be renewed under the provisions of this Article for
additional periods of one (1) year. The City Clerk shall send a notice of
renewal by first class mail to the last known address of the mobile home park
owner or manager on or before March 1 of the renewal year. The application for
such license or the renewal thereof shall be filed with the City Clerk and
shall be accompanied by a fee for each mobile home park as provided in the most
recent Springfield fee ordinance. Applications for a renewal license shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk no later than the first (1st) day of
April of each year.
   (2)   The application for a new license or a renewal of a mobile home park
license which has undergone changes, shall include the name and address of the
owner and the location of the tract and if the ownership of said tract is
vested in some person other than the applicant, a duly verified statement by
that person that the applicant is authorized by him to construct or maintain
the mobile home park and make the application, and such a legal description of
the premises upon which the mobile home park is or will be located as will
readily identify and definitely locate the premises. The application shall be
accompanied by a copy of the new license or renewal license from the Nebraska
Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure and one (1)
copy of the specifications and park plans in scale, which shall be placed
permanently on file in the office of the City Clerk and showing the following
information:
      (a)   The extent and area used for park purposes,
      (b)   Roadways and driveways,
      (c)   Location and number of sites or mobile home lots for mobile homes,
      (d)   That there has been proper conformance with City building, zoning,
plumbing and other ordinances,
      (e)   Method and plan of sewage disposal,
      (f)   Method and plan of water service,
      (g)   Method and plan of garbage removal.
   (3)   The application for a renewal of a mobile home park license which has
not undergone changes in the aforementioned required information, shall include
a statement from the mobile home park owner or manager certifying that no
changes have been made since the previous license or renewal. A copy of the new
license or renewal license from the Nebraska Department of Health and Human
Services Regulation and Licensure shall accompany the renewal application.
(Ref. 17-505, 17-1003 Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1205 MOBILE HOME PARKS; LICENSE, NEW; RECOMMENDATIONS BY CITY STAFF;
INSPECTION OF PREMISES; ISSUANCE; SCOPE.
   (1)   Before such license shall be issued there shall be a favorable
recommendation by City designated agents; and the premises must be inspected
and approved by the City’s authorized representative or other City designated
agents as complying with all provisions of this Article and all other
applicable ordinances of the City; whereupon it shall be at the discretion of
the City Council to issue the same.
   (2)   Licenses issued under the terms of this Article shall convey no right
to erect any building, to do any plumbing work, or to do any electrical work
except upon a permit issued in conformity with existing building, electrical,
and plumbing codes of the City.  (Ref. 17-505 Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1206 MOBILE HOME PARKS; LICENSE RENEWAL; RECOMMENDATIONS BY CITY STAFF;
INSPECTION OF PREMISES; ISSUANCE; SCOPE.   
   A license may be renewed. Before such license shall be renewed, there shall
be a favorable recommendation by City designated agents; and the premises must
be inspected and approved by the City’s authorized representative or other City
designated agents as complying with all provisions of this Article and all
other applicable ordinances of the City. (Ref. 17-505 Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/
2/04)
§ 10-1207 MOBILE HOME PARKS; LICENSE; REVOCATION.
   After due investigation by City designated agents, should it be determined
that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of this Article or
that any mobile home or mobile home park is being maintained in an unsanitary
or unsafe manner or is a nuisance, the City shall notify the owner or manager
of the mobile home park of said violations. The mobile home or mobile home park
must be brought into compliance within thirty (30) days for non-emergency non-
compliance and within twenty-four (24) hours for emergency non-compliance.
Should the mobile home or mobile home park not be brought into compliance
within the said time, the City Council is hereby authorized to revoke any
license issued pursuant to the terms of this Article. (Ref. 17-123, 17-145, 17-
505, 18-1720 Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1208 MOBILE HOME PARKS; LOCATION; LAND USE; DESIGN OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (1)   Location, land use, and design of all mobile home parks shall be in
accordance with the Springfield Zoning and Subdivision Regulations.
   (2)   No mobile home park shall be located within the jurisdictional limits
of the City unless appropriate water, sewer and fire protection facilities are
available and the applicant, in his application, clearly manifests his
intention to connect thereto before the park is occupied. (Ref. 17-123, 17-145,
17-505, 17-537, 17-100, 17-1003 Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1209 MOBILE HOME PARKS; WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION.    
   (1)   An adequate supply of pure water for each mobile home and each shower,
toilet, washing or other similar facility for common usage in a mobile home
park shall be furnished through a piped distribution system laid at a depth of
not less than four and one-half (4 1/2) feet from the surface of the ground and
connected with the City water main. There shall be supply faucets located not
more than two hundred (200) feet from any mobile home and each of these supply
pipes shall be capable of supplying at least one hundred fifty (150) gallons of
water per day per mobile home.
   (2)   The water distribution system shall be constructed from copper or PVC
pipe. The piping shall be of sufficient capacity to supply six (6) to eight (8)
gallons per minute at a minimum pressure of twenty-five (25) pounds per square
inch at each mobile home lot. Individual mobile home supply lines shall not be
less than three-fourths (3/4) inch Type K copper pipe terminating with a
connection at an appropriate location at each mobile home lot with a riser
extending at least four (4) inches above the ground surface with two (2) three-
fourths (3/4) inch valve outlets. The valve outlets shall be threaded so that a
screwed connection, using flexible copper tubing, may be made from one (1)
valve outlet to the mobile home’s water piping system. The second valve outlet
shall be reserved for use as a hose connection for fire control or other uses.
The ground surface around the riser pipe shall be graded so as to divert
surface drainage away from the connection. The riser pipe shall be encased in a
six (6) inch PVC or heated insulated riser, with the intervening space filled
with an insulating material to protect it from freezing. An insulated cover
shall be provided which will encase both valve outlets but not prevent
connections to the trailer during freezing weather. When the mobile home space
is unoccupied during cold weather, the outlet shall be protected from freezing
by draining of the pipes. A shutoff valve or other approved frost free
arrangement shall be placed below frost depth on the service line; it shall in
no instance be a stop and waste cock. Master meters shall be installed on the
distribution system serving the mobile home park. A testable backflow device
shall be installed after the curb stop (stop box) on the main water supply
connecting to the City water distribution system. A master meter shall be
placed after the backflow device for the purpose of monitoring the entire
park’s water usage. A pit approved by the City Engineer shall be constructed.
Testing and installation of master meters shall be at the owner’s expense.
   (3)   Each mobile home shall have a stop box that is accessible to City
Staff. In such cases where mobile homes are connected to the City’s water
distribution system individually through separate service lines, a curb stop
will be placed at the curb or at the property line of the mobile home park. In
such cases where a mobile home park is connected to the city’s water
distribution system through a private main and individual mobile home lots are
served by service lines connected directly the private main a curb stop box
shall be placed before the individual mobile home riser and water meter for
city staff accessibility. All faucets and devices shall be placed after the
water meter. A meter pit and meter with a shutoff located before the meter is
also acceptable.
   (4)   All necessary precautions shall be taken in laying all water pipes.
They shall not be laid in water, nor where they can be flooded by water or
sewage during the laying process period. Dirt and other contaminating material
shall be excluded from the pipe.
   (5)   Mobile homes outside the limits of the City, but within the
jurisdictional limits provided for the enforcement of building, construction
and installation codes, but for which appropriate water mains are unavailable,
shall have a water system for each mobile home installation, approved by the
Plumbing Inspector, or his authorized designee, and the Nebraska Department of
Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure. The Plumbing Inspector, or
his authorized designee shall approve each water supply distribution system
provided for a mobile home after construction and before it is covered or
placed in service. No common drinking vessels shall be permitted, nor shall any
common drinking water faucets or drinking fountains be placed in any toilet
room. An abundant supply of hot water shall be provided at all times for
laundry and bathing facilities.  (Ref. 17-123, 17-537, 17-1001 RS Neb.)
   (6)   This section shall not apply to mobile homes which have direct
connections to the public water supply system. (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1210 MOBILE HOME PARKS; WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION; WASTE AND SEWAGE
DISPOSAL; EXISTING NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Mobile home parks not in compliance at the time of the adoption of §10-1209
and §10-1212, but in good working order, shall be waived from complying with
§10-1209 and §10-1212 until a five thousand (5,000) gallon discrepancy between
the mobile home park’s master water meter and the sum of all individual mobile
home water meters within said park occurs. At such time, the master meter may
be tested, and the entire park shall be brought into compliance with §10-1209
and §10-1212 within ninety (90) days. Testing and installation of master meters
shall be at the owner’s expense. (Ref. 17-123, 17-145, 17-149, 17-505, 17-53 7,
17-1001 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1211 MOBILE HOME PARKS; REFUSE DISPOSAL.   
   (1)   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse from the mobile home
park shall be so conducted as to avoid the creation of health hazards, such as
rodent harborages or insect breeding areas, air pollution and accidents. The
mobile home park area shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and all inflammable
material at all times.
   (2)   Sufficient container capacity shall be provided to prevent the
overflowing of any refuse container between collections. Each mobile home shall
be provided with a minimum of thirty (30) gallons of refuse storage capacity.
(Ref. 17-123, 17-505, 17-1720 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1212 MOBILE HOME PARKS; WASTE AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL.      
   (1) Each mobile home lot shall be equipped with at least a four (4) inch PVC
sewer connection below frost line and reaching at least four (4) inches above
the surface of the ground. The sewer drainage inlet shall be positioned within
four (4) feet of the mobile home and a minimum of ten (10) feet from the water
riser. The connection between the mobile home drain and the sewer shall be made
water tight by suitable fittings. A threaded or fitted in clamp connection
shall be made at the mobile home drain and at the sewer outlet drain. The sewer
outlet shall consist of a standard ferrule with a four (4) by three (3) inch
screw plug. The screw plug shall be fastened by chain or other device to the
concrete collar surrounding the sewer connection to prevent its removal from
the site while the sewer connection is in use. The threaded hose connection may
be connected to the ferrule directly or by use of pipe fittings. In the case of
temporary pipe connections the two (2) inch pipe can be inserted into the
ferrule and caulked to make an acceptable connection. For overnight parking of
mobile homes, the plumbing fixtures within the mobile homes shall not be used
unless provided with satisfactory means of disposal of all sewage wastes. These
overnight mobile homes shall be parked close to the service buildings and the
mobile home occupants shall be directed to use the facilities in the service
building or the mobile home shall be connected to the sewage system. When a
mobile home does not occupy the mobile home stand, the sewer riser pipe shall
be capped with an airtight cap or plug. All sewer lines or parts thereof shall
have a clean out, and shall be properly vented at each trailer site.
   (2)   All sewer lines shall be laid in trenches separated at least ten (10)
feet horizontally from any drinking water supply line under pressure, at a
grade of one-fourth (1/4) inch per foot. Sewer lines shall be at a grade
sufficient to ensure a mean velocity of two (2) feet per second when flowing
full. The system shall be designed for a minimum flow rate of at least two
hundred (200) gallons per day per mobile home lot. The sewer line shall be
permanently made root proof and water tight by means of approved glued joints
or other approved method. All joints on the sewer lines shall be made water
tight and every effort shall be made to minimize ground water infiltration into
the sewage system. Connections in manholes shall be so constructed as to
prevent surface water from entering the sanitary sewers. Manholes shall be
provided at every change in direction, at every junction of two (2) or more
branch sewers, and at intervals of not more than three hundred (300) feet.
Cleanouts extending to grade may be used instead of manholes on four (4) and
six (6) inch lines. Cleanouts should be provided wherever a manhole would
otherwise be necessary and at intervals of not more than one hundred (100)
feet. All cleanouts shall be capped with cleanout plugs. Each sewer main
serving a row of mobile homes shall be vented at its upper end. Sewer service
lines shall be a minimum of four (4) inch lines that service each mobile home.
These four (4) inch lines shall be connected to a six (6) inch main which
empties into the City’s sewer system. All materials used and installation shall
be subject to approval of the plumbing inspector, or his designee, before
installation. Mobile homes outside the limits of the City, but within the
limits of the City’s jurisdiction for the enforcement of its codes, shall have
a sewer system approved by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality and
the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services Regulation and Licensure.
(Ref. 17-145, 17-149, 17-505 RS Neb.)
   (3)   This section shall not apply to mobile homes which have direct
connections to the public sewer system. (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1213 MOBILE HOME PARKS; ELECTRICITY.
   Every mobile home park shall be governed by the minimum standards adopted by
the State Electrical Act. (Ref. 17-1001 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1214 MOBILE HOME PARKS; GAS SYSTEMS.
   Every mobile home park shall be in compliance with state and federal
regulations. (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1215 MOBILE HOME PARKS; FUEL.
   Cylinders containing liquefied petroleum gas, to be used as fuel by mobile
home occupants, shall be connected to the stoves or heaters of the mobile home.
by copper or other metallic tubing, in such a manner as to provide leak proof
connections. The cylinders shall be securely fastened in place, outside of and
not less than five (5) feet from any mobile home exit. State and local
regulations applicable to the installation of equipment, and the handling of
liquefied petroleum gas and fuel oil shall be followed. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1216 MOBILE HOME PARKS; FIRE PROTECTION.
   No mobile home shall be located farther than three (300) feet from an
approved fire hydrant. Fires shall not be permitted within the area of a mobile
home park except in equipment specifically designed for such purpose and
approved by the fire chief as being in compliance with the existing regulations
governing such fires. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1217 MOBILE HOME PARKS; ALTERATIONS; REPAIRS; ADDITIONS.
   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs shall be made in
accordance with local regulations. Permanent additions or other accessory
buildings may be built onto, or become a part of, a mobile home when authorized
pursuant to Springfield City codes and regulations. The skirting shall comply
with current Springfield Zoning Regulations. The wheels of travel trailers
which are designed for use as conveyances on highways or city streets propelled
or drawn by their own or other motive power, not to include temporary wheels
for the transportation of a mobile home of a more permanent nature, shall not
be removed except temporarily for repairs not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours.
This need not prevent the placing of jacks or stabilizers under the frame of a
mobile home to prevent movement on the springs while it is parked and occupied.
(Ref. 17-123, 17-505, 17-1001 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1218 MOBILE HOME PARKS; RESTRICTIONS ON PETS.
   No dogs, cats or other domestic animals shall be permitted to run at large
in the mobile home park. Such animals shall be kept in restricted enclosures on
the individual mobile home lot. The enclosures shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition at all times.  (Ref. 17-505, 17-547 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1219 MOBILE HOME PARKS; DUTIES OF OWNER OR MANAGER.    
   The owner or manager of every mobile home park shall maintain a copy of the
mobile home park license and of this Article, and the mobile home park
register. It shall be the duty of the owner or manager together with the
licensee to:
   (1)   Keep at all times a register of all owners of mobile homes and
residents, which shall be open to State and Federal officials and designated
agents of the City showing for all guests:
      (a)   Names and addresses.
      (b)   Dates of entrance and departure.
      (c)   License numbers of all automobiles and mobile homes entowing.
      (d)   State issuing such licenses.
      (e)   Place of last location and length of stay.
      (f)   Color and make of the mobile home.
   (2)   Maintain the mobile home park in a clean, orderly and sanitary
condition at all times.
   (3)   See that the provisions of this Article are complied with and enforced
and report promptly to the proper authorities any violations of this Article or
any other violations of the law which may come to his/her attention.
   (4)   Notify the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services
immediately upon any known or suspected case of communicable disease. In case
of a disease diagnosed as quarantinable, the owner or manager shall not permit
the departure of a mobile home or its occupants or the removal therefrom of
clothing or other articles that have been exposed to the infection without
approval of the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services.
   (5)   Prohibit the use of any mobile home by a greater number of occupants
than that for which it is designed to accommodate. (Ref. 17-505, 17-1001, 17-
1003 Neb.) (Ord. No. 646, 11/2/04)
§ 10-1220 MOBILE HOME PARKS; LIMITATIONS ON NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS PER TRAILER. 
   No mobile home may be inhabited by a greater number of occupants than that
for which it was designed. (Ref. 17505, 17-1001, 17-1003 Neb.) (Ord. No. 646,
11/2/04)
Article 13. Penal Provision
Section
   
10-1301   Violations; Penalty
§ 10-1301  VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (1)   Any person, or any person’s agent or servant, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise specifically provided herein,
shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) A new violation shall
be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of failure to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   (a)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
Municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin, abate, and remove the
same in the manner provided by law.
      (b)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 17-505, 18-1720, 18-1722
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 495, 7/5/00)
CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
Article
      
Article 1. Comprehensive Plan
      
A
rticle 2. Zoning Regulations
      
A
rticle 3. Subdivision Regulations
      
A
rticle 4. Conflicts
      
A
rticle 5. Group Homes
      
A
rticle 6. Stormwater Regulations
Article 1. Comprehensive Plan
Section
   
11-101   Comprehensive Plan; Adopted by Reference
§ 11-101 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Development Plan for the Municipality of Springfield, Nebraska,
as prepared by Johnson Erickson O'Brien and Associates, Inc., is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amendments which may now or in the
future be made, as though printed in full herein. Such plan shall consist of
maps, graphs, and text. Three (3) copies of the herein adopted plan shall be
kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any
member of the public during office hours. (Ref. 18-132 RS Neb.) (Amended by
Ord. No. 476, 3/16/99)
Article 2. Zoning Regulations
Section
   
11-201   Zoning Regulations; Adopted by Reference
§ 11-201 ZONING REGULATIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of setting minimum standards to promote the public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of the
community, and to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic, and other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements, the Zoning Ordinance of the City of
Springfield, as prepared by Johnson Erickson O'Brien and Associates, Inc, and
published in pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to
all amendments which may now or in the future be made, as though printed in
full herein. Three (3) copies of the herein adopted Zoning Regulations shall be
kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any
member of the public during office hours. (Ref. 18-132 RS Neb.) (Amended Ord.
No. 476, 3/16/99)
Article 3. Subdivision Regulations
Section
   
11-301   Subdivision Regulations; Adopted by Reference
§ 11-301 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide for harmonious development of the Municipality and its environs;
for the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or planned
streets or with other features of the Comprehensive Plan; for adequate open
spaces for traffic, recreation, light and air; for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience, or prosperity; to insure conformance
of subdivision plans with the capital improvement program of the Municipality;
and, to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdividers and the Planning
Commission and Governing Body, the Subdivision Regulations for the Municipality
of Springfield, Nebraska, as prepared by Johnson Erickson O'Brien and
Associates, Inc., and published in pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amendments which may now or in the future be made,
as though printed in full herein. Three (3) copies of the herein adopted
Subdivision Regulations shall be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and
available for inspection by any member of the public during office hours. (Ref.
18-132 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 476, 3/16/99)
Article 4. Conflicts
Section
   
11-401 CONFLICTS
§ 11-401 CONFLICTS.
   Where the provisions adopted by this Chapter conflict with one another or
with the provisions of Chapter 9 of this Municipal Code, the most restrictive
or stringent provisions shall govern.
Article 5. Group Homes
Section
   
11-501   Groups Homes; Defined
   
11-502   Group Homes; Establishment, Exceptions
§ 11-501 GROUPS HOMES; DEFINED.  
   For the purpose of this Article, unless the context otherwise requires, the
term "group home" shall mean a facility licensed by the State of Nebraska in
which at least four (4) but not more than eight (8) persons not including
resident managers or house parents, who are unrelated by blood, marriage, or
adoption reside while receiving therapy, training, or counseling for the
purposes of adaptation to living with, or rehabilitation from cerebral palsy,
autism, or mental retardation. (Ref. 18-1744 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 251, 4/5/83)
§ 11-502 GROUP HOMES; ESTABLISHMENT, EXCEPTIONS.  
   Departments and agencies of the state are prohibited from licensing a new
group home if it will be within twelve hundred (1200') feet of an existing
group home, unless the Governing Body grants the proposed facility a
conditional or special use permit. For purposes of this section, "existing
group home" shall include, in addition to group homes defined in section 11-
501, including but not limited to correctional homes and homes which serve
people recuperating from the effects of drugs or alcohol, mental illness, or
physical disability.
   The number of group homes established in the Municipality shall be limited
according to the population of the Municipality, except that the Governing Body
may issue a variance to allow additional group homes. For a Municipality with a
population of one thousand (1,000) residents or less, one (1) group home may be
established, for a Municipality with a population of more than one thousand
(1,000) and less than ten thousand (10,000) residents, one (1) group home may
be established for every two thousand (2,000) residents, for a Municipality
with a population of at least ten thousand (10,000) residents but less than
fifty thousand (50,000) residents, one (1) group home may be established for
every three thousand (3,000) residents. (Ref. 18-1746, 18-1747 RS Neb.) (Ord.
No. 251, 4/5/83)
Article 6. Stormwater Regulations
Section
   
11-601   Stormwater Regulations; Purpose and Authority
   
11-602   Stormwater Regulations; Incorporation by Reference
   
11-603   Stormwater Regulations; Definitions
   
11-604   Stormwater Regulations; Illicit Discharges Prohibited
   
11-605   Stormwater Regulations: Prohibition of Illicit Connections
   
11-606   Stormwater Regulations: Removal of Illicit Connection
   
11-607   Stormwater Regulations; Private Stormwater Conveyance Systems
   
11-608   Stormwater Regulations; Discharge of Sanitary Sewage Prohibited
   
11-609   Stormwater Regulations: Damage to the Municipal Storm Sewer System
   
11-610   Stormwater Regulations: Waste Disposal Prohibitions
   
11-611   Stormwater Regulations: Prohibited Discharges from Industrial/
commercial Activities
   
11-612   Stormwater Regulations; Notification of Prohibited Discharges Required
   
11-613   Stormwater Regulations; Grading Permit Required
   
11-614   Stormwater Regulations; Application for Grading Permit
   
11-615   Stormwater Regulations; Grading Permit Fee
   
11-616   Stormwater Regulations; Issuance of Grading Permit
   
11-617   Stormwater Regulations; Erosion and Sediment Control at Construction
and Development Sites
   
11-618   Stormwater Regulations; Requirement for All New Development and
Redevelopment Projects
   
11-619   Stormwater Regulations; Post-construction Stormwater Management Plan
   
11-620   Stormwater Regulations; Exemptions from the Post-construction
Stormwater Management Plan
   
11-621   Stormwater Regulations; Maintenance of Post-Construction BMPS
   
11-622   Stormwater Regulations; Admission to Property
   
11-623   Stormwater Regulations: Regulatory Actions
   
11-624   Stormwater Regulations; Notice of Violation: Correction of Violations
   
11-625   Stormwater Regulations: Penalty; Recovery of Damages
   
11-626   Stormwater Regulations; Additional Rules and Regulation
   
11-627   Stormwater Regulations; Appeals
   
11-628   Stormwater Regulations; Conflicts with Other Code Sections
   
11-629   Stormwater Regulations; Severability
§ 11-601 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this Article is to protect, maintain, and enhance the
public health, safety, and general welfare by establishing minimum requirements
and procedures to control the adverse impacts associated with increased and
altered stormwater runoff. Proper management of stormwater runoff will minimize
damage to public and private property, reduce the harmful effects of
development on land, control stream channel erosion, reduce local flooding, and
maintain after development, as nearly as possible, the pre-development runoff
characteristics.
   (B)   The application of this Chapter and provisions expressed herein shall
be the minimum stormwater management requirements and shall not be deemed a
limitation on such management practices. The City of Springfield shall be
responsible for the coordination and enforcement of the provisions of this
Chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to all property
within the City's zoning jurisdiction. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-602 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the Omaha Regional Stormwater Design
Manual, in its most current form, is incorporated by reference. (Ord. No. 960,
5/16/17)
§ 11-603 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, phrases and terms as used in this Chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Chapter:
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Pollution control practices designed and
carried out to reduce the pollutants contained in discharges, including low
impact development techniques.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a wastewater
drainage system that receives the discharge from soil and waste pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning two
(2) feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   CITY. The City of Springfield.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, which was enacted
in 1972 to prohibit the discharge of pollutants to receiving waters of the
United States and later amended in 1987, to establish a framework for
regulating municipal, industrial, a construction stormwater discharges under
the NPDES Program.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving, by designation of the director, both
runoff water and sanitary sewage.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Any public or private activity not defined as an
industrial activity in 40 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 122.26(b)(14) as of
the date of this Article, involved in the storage, transportation,
distribution, exchange or sale of goods and/or commodities or providing
professional and/or nonprofessional services.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Any clearing, grading, or excavation that results in
soil disturbance. Construction activity also includes, but is not limited to,
construction, repairs, dewatering, remodeling, building, and emergency
construction activities required to immediately protect public health and
safety.
   DIRECTOR. The City Administrator for the City of Springfield or his/her
authorized agent or representative.
   DISCHARGE. Any release, spill, leak, pump, flow, escape, dumping, or
disposal of any liquid, semi-solid, or solid substance to the municipal storm
sewer system.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance designated under 40 CFR Part 116 pursuant
to section 311 of the Clean Water Act.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any human made conveyance that is directly or indirectly
connected to the municipal separate storm sewer system and allows for an
illicit discharge.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer
system that is prohibited under local, state, or federal statutes, ordinances,
codes, or regulations. Illicit discharges include all non-stormwater discharges
except discharges pursuant to a NPDES permit.
   ILLICIT DISPOSAL. Any disposal, either intentional or unintentional, of
material(s), substance(s), or waste(s) that has the potential to pollute runoff
unless otherwise allowed by law.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Any public or private activity which is associated with
any other of the eleven (11) categories of activities defined in 40 CFR 122.26
(b)(14), as of the date of this Article.
   INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Any public or private facility involved and/
or used in the production, manufacture, storage, transportation, distribution,
exchange or sale of goods and/or commodities, or any facility involved and/or
used in providing professional services. This category of facility includes but
is not limited to, any facility defined by a Standard Industrial Code (SIC).
   LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID). De-centralized management of precipitation
that would otherwise be stormwater runoff, utilizing design techniques that
infiltrate, filter, store, evaporate, or temporarily detain stormwater.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. A standard for implementation of stormwater
management programs to reduce pollutants in stormwater. It is the maximum
extent possible taking into account equitable consideration of competing
factors, including, but not limited to the seriousness of the problem, public
health risk, environmental benefits, pollutant removal effectiveness,
regulatory compliance, ability to implement, cost and technical feasibility.
   MUNICIPAL STORM SEWER SYSTEM. Any inlet, pipe, ditch or gully, or system of
pipes, ditches, or gullies, that is owned or operated by the City and used for
collecting and conveying stormwater.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. Land disturbing activities; structural development,
including construction or installation of a building or structure, the creation
of impervious surfaces; and land subdivision.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System and is
implemented and enforced by a permit issued by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality (NDEQ)
pursuant to the Clean Water Act that authorizes discharges to waters of the
United States and requires the reduction of pollutants in the discharge.
   NON-STORMWATER RUNOFF. Any discharge to the municipal storm sewer system
that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance as defined in this section.
   POLLUTANT. The same as defined in section 502(6) of the Clean Water Act
including, but is not limited to the following, but does not include
uncontaminated stormwater, potable water, groundwater, or reclaimed water by a
lawfully permitted water treatment facility:
      (1)   Materials (including but not limited to fuels, solvents, chemical,
detergents, plastic, pellets, hazardous substances, radioactive wastes,
fertilizers, pesticides, paints, soot, slag, ash, sludge);
      (2)   Metals and nonmetals both soluble and insoluble (including but not
limited to cadmium, lead, zinc, copper, silver, nickel, chromium, chlorine,
phosphorous, and arsenic);
      (3)   Petroleum hydrocarbons (including but not limited to fuels, oils,
lubricants, surfactants, waste oils, solvents, coolants, and grease);
      (4)   Eroded soils, sediment, and particulate materials in amounts, which
may adversely affect the beneficial use of the receiving waters, flora, or
fauna of the State;
      (5)   Animal wastes (including but not limited to discharge from
confinement facilities, kennels, pens, recreational facilities, and stables);
      (6)   Substances having acidic or corrosive characteristics, unusual
coloration or turbidity;
      (7)   Any domestic or industrial wastewater;
      (8)   Any hazardous substance.
   PRIVATE STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEM. A stormwater conveyance system that is
not owned or maintained by the City including any instrumentality that drains
or conveys water from a building or from/through one (1) or more properties to
the environment or the City's stormwater system.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any discharge in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or an order of the City Council.
   RECEIVING WATERS. All surface water bodies, including all streams, lakes,
ponds, impounding reservoirs, marshes, wetlands, watercourses, waterways,
wells, springs, irrigation ditches, gullies or channels, drainage systems, and
all other bodies or accumulation of water, natural or artificial, public or
private, situated wholly or partly within or bordering upon the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Springfield.
   RUNOFF. Any stormwater or non-stormwater discharges from a drainage area
that enters the municipal storm sewer system. The term runoff is
interchangeable with the term urban runoff.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions.
   SEPARATE STORM SEWER. Pipe or conduit, which by designation of the Director,
carries only stormwater runoff, discharges pursuant to a NPDES permit or
discharges conditionally exempted by ordinance.
   SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT. Land-disturbing activity that results in the
creation, addition or replacement of at least five thousand (5,000) square feet
of impervious surface area on an already developed site.
      (1)   Redevelopment includes, but is not limited to the following
activities that meet the minimum standards set forth in this definition:
         (a)   The expansion of a building footprint;
         (b)   Addition or replacement of a structure;
         (c)   Replacement of impervious surface that is not part of a routine
maintenance activity; and
         (d)   Land disturbing activities related to structural or impervious
surfaces.
      (2)   Redevelopment does not include activities that are conducted to
maintain original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, original purpose of
facility or emergency redevelopment activity required to protect public health
and safety.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
current edition of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the
Executive Office of the President of the United States, Office of Management
and Budget.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan required by the State
of Nebraska under either the General Permit for Stormwater Discharges or an
individual NPDES permit, which includes requirements for stonnwater discharges
associated with either industrial or construction activities. The purpose of
the plan is to help identify the sources of pollution that affect the quality
of stormwater discharges from a site and to describe and ensure the
implementation of practices to reduce pollutants in stormwater discharges.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. That part of natural precipitation (rainfall or snowmelt,
including that of any frozen precipitation), which travels via flow across any
surface to the municipal storm sewer system.
   STREET WASH WATER. The water and the associated debris resulting from the
washing of streets and/or sidewalks.
   URBAN RUNOFF. Any stormwater and non-stormwater runoff from developed land
in, or adjacent to, any municipality.
   U.S. EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. No. 960,
5/16/17)
§ 11-604 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; ILLICIT DISCHARGES PROHIBITED. 
   (A)   No person shall cause the discharge of non-stormwater runoff to enter
the municipal separate storm sewer system unless the discharge is one of the
following:
      (1)   Authorized by a NPDES permit issued by EPA, or NDEQ;
      (2)   Caused by or resulting from one of the following:
         (a)   Fire fighting activities, where such discharges or flows contain
no significant sources of pollutants;
         (b)   Landscape irrigation;
         (c)   Diverted stream flows;
         (d)   Rising ground waters;
         (e)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration, as defined at 40 CFR
35.2005(20);
         (f)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
         (g)   Discharges from potable water sources;
         (h)   Foundation drains;
         (i)   Air conditioning condensation;
         (j)   Irrigation water;
         (k)   Springs;
         (l)   Water from crawl space pumps;
         (m)   Footing drains;
         (n)   Lawn watering;
         (o)   Individual residential car washing;
         (p)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
         (q)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
         (r)   Street wash water;
      (3)   Authorized by the City of Springfield.
   (B)   All exempt discharges, as listed above, must be in conformance with
all other provisions of this Code. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-605 STORMWATER REGULATIONS: PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. 
   (A)   No person shall install, maintain, or use any connection to the
municipal separate storm sewer system that may result in an illicit discharge
to the municipal storm sewer system. All connections to the municipal storm
sewer system that provide for an illicit discharge from inside a building are
prohibited.
   (B)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. For illicit connections made in the past, a plan to remedy the
illicit connection shall be submitted to the Director. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-606 STORMWATER REGULATIONS: REMOVAL OF ILLICIT CONNECTION.  
   If any person fails to disconnect an illicit connection upon thirty (30)-day
prior notification by the Director, the Director may cause the removal of such
connection from the municipal storm sewer system. The City may pursue the
recovery of costs by appropriate means including a suit at law against the
person or persons responsible for such disconnection. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-607 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; PRIVATE STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS.    
   (A)   The owner of a property where a private stormwater conveyance system
is located shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair, and proper
operation of the private stormwater conveyance system, regardless of whether
the private stormwater conveyance system is completely located on the private
property or partially within the public right-of-way. The City shall have no
responsibility or obligation for the maintenance, repair, or proper operation
of a private stormwater conveyance system.
   (B)   If the Director determines that a private stormwater conveyance system
is not operating properly and causes the improper discharge of stormwater to
the street, sidewalk or municipal storm sewer system, the Director may declare
this condition to constitute a public nuisance and proceed to abate that
nuisance. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-608 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; DISCHARGE OF SANITARY SEWAGE PROHIBITED.
     No person shall cause discharge of sanitary sewage to the municipal
separate storm sewer system. In addition, if the Director determines that a
building drain or building sewer is not operating properly and causes the
discharge of sewage to the street, sidewalk, or municipal separate storm sewer
system, the Director may declare this condition to constitute a public nuisance
and proceed to abate that nuisance. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-609 STORMWATER REGULATIONS: DAMAGE TO THE MUNICIPAL STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the municipal storm sewer system.
(Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-610 STORMWATER REGULATIONS: WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain, litter, keep, or
permit to be thrown, deposited, left, maintained or kept any pollutant, refuse,
rubbish, food waste, yard waste, garbage, or any other discarded or abandoned
objects in or upon any public or private property, driveway, parking area,
street, alley, sidewalk, or other location that may result in an illicit
discharge to the municipal storm sewer system. Wastes placed in containers
protected from urban runoff such as bags, cans, or recycling bins, and City-
approved wastes from construction on public right-of-way are exempted from this
prohibition.
(Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-611 STORMWATER REGULATIONS: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES FROM INDUSTRIAL/
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   The following list of discharges from industrial/commercial activities shall
be considered prohibited unless permitted under a separate NPDES permit or
approved by the City. This list is not an exhaustive list of prohibited
discharges to the municipal storm sewer system:
   (A)   Water from the cleaning of vehicle fueling stations, vehicle service
garages, or other types of vehicle service facilities;
   (B)   Water, cleansers, or solvents from the cleaning of vehicles, machinery
or equipment, and other such commercial and industrial operations;
   (C)   Water from the washing or rising of vehicles containing soap,
detergents, solvents, or other cleaners;
   (D)   Water from the cleaning or rinsing of vehicle engine, undercarriage,
or auto parts cleaning;
   (E)   Vehicle fluids;
   (F)   Mat wash water from food service facilities;
   (G)   Food and kitchen cleaning water from food service facilities;
   (H)   Leakage from dumpsters or trash containers;
   (I)   Water from the cleaning or rinsing of garbage dumpster areas and areas
where garbage is stored or contained;
   (J)   Water from pressure washing, steam cleaning, and hand scrubbing of
sidewalks, gutters, plazas, alleyways, outdoor eating areas, steps, building
exteriors, walls, driveways, and other outdoor surfaces;
   (K)   Wastewater or cleaning fluids from carpet cleaning;
   (L)   Swimming pool and spa water;
   (M)   Wash out from concrete trucks;
   (N)   Runoff from areas where hazardous substances, including diesel fuel,
gasoline and motor oil are stored;
   (O)   Super-chlorinated, i.e. greater than four (4) mg/l chlorine, water
normally associated with the disinfection of potable water systems. (Ord. No.
960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-612 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; NOTIFICATION OF PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
REQUIRED.  
   (A)    In the event of discovery of a discharge to the municipal storm sewer
system that is prohibited by this Code, the discharger or permittee shall
immediately notify the Director of the incident by telephone, facsimile or e-
mail. The notification shall include the discharge location, type of materials
discharged, estimated concentration and volume of the discharge, and corrective
actions taken to contain or minimize the effects of the discharge.
   (B)   In addition, a written report, facsimile or e-mail, addressed to the
Director detailing the date, time and cause of the discharge, the quantity and
characteristics of the discharge, corrective actions taken to contain or
minimize the effects of the discharge, and corrective actions taken to prevent
future discharges shall be filed by the responsible person within five (5) days
of the occurrence of the non-complying discharge. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-613 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; GRADING PERMIT REQUIRED.  
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or cause any grading,
clearing, or excavation activities that result in the disturbance of any land
areas sufficiently large to require a general NPDES construction site
stormwater permit, without the property owner, tenant, or easement holder, or
their agent, first obtaining a grading permit from the City's Building and
Inspections Department. This section shall not apply to grading performed
solely for agricultural purposes. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-614 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; APPLICATION FOR GRADING PERMIT.  
   (A)   Any property owner, tenant, or easement holder, or their agent,
desiring a grading permit shall make an application to the permits and
inspections division on the forms provided by the division.
   (B)   Any property owner, tenant, or easement holder, or their agent,
desiring a grading permit shall also submit to the City's Permits and
Inspection Division a completed NDEQ notice of intent/permit application for
coverage under the general NPDES construction site stormwater permit. Such
permit application shall be made on forms provided by the NDEQ and distributed
by the Permits and Inspection Division. The City shall review all such
completed applications and then foreword the documents to the NDEQ for approval
or denial. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)  
§ 11-615 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; GRADING PERMIT FEE.  
   Before any grading permit application will be accepted by the Building and
Inspections Department, the applicant shall pay to the City a fee in accordance
to the Master Fee Schedule. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-616 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; ISSUANCE OF GRADING PERMIT.  
   If, after, examination of the application for a grading permit, the City has
determined that the proposed plan will meet the requirements of this Article
and if the NDEQ approved the NPDES application for the project, or fails to
review and approve or deny the application within seven (7) days, then the
Permits and Inspection Division shall issue the grading permit. (Ord. No. 960,
5/16/17)
§ 11-617 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL AT CONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT SITES.  
   Provisions for erosion and sediment control at construction and development
sites are set forth in the Omaha Regional Stormwater Design Manual. The
provisions thereof shall be controlling of all subjects contained therein
within the corporate limits and within the jurisdictional area outside the City
limits, in the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Omaha
Regional Stormwater Design Manual, or any other ordinance, and the provisions
of an NPDES permit issued by the State of Nebraska, the provision that imposes
the higher or most stringent or most specific practice shall prevail. (Ord. No.
960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-618 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; REQUIREMENT FOR ALL NEW DEVELOPMENT AND
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.  
   Land development and significant redevelopment projects with the potential
to add pollutants to stormwater or to affect the flow rate or velocity of
stormwater runoff after construction is completed must include provisions for
the management of the increased post construction runoff in a Post-Construction
Stormwater Management Plan.  (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-619 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; POST-CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   A post-construction stormwater management plan shall be submitted to
the City, on a form or format specified by the planning director, as part of
any preliminary plat application or grading permit application; or building
permit application that creates five thousand (5,000) square feet or more of
impervious coverage. For any significant redevelopment, a post-construction
stormwater management plan shall be submitted with the building permit
application.
   (B)   For all development applications made after the adoption date of this
Article, the post-construction stormwater management plan, at a minimum, shall
include low impact development (LID) BMPs to provide for water quality control
of the first one-half (½)-inch of runoff from the site. The City may also
require this minimum control level for significant redevelopment that increases
the amount of impervious area in a previously platted parcel. For significant
redevelopment projects that do not require a grading permit or that involve an
increase of less than five thousand (5,000) square feet of impervious surface
area, BMPs for water quality control of the first one-half (½)-inch of runoff
from the site are encouraged, but not required. For significant redevelopment
projects that are characterized as additions or expansions, the Planning
Director may determine that the required BMPs only be applied to the area of
new development.
   (C)   The PCSMP shall include the design, locations, schedules, and
procedures for inspection and maintenance of the selected BMPs. Temporary
erosion and sediment control BMPs to be used during the construction process
are to be addressed in the grading permit application. The BMPs for the PCSMP
shall address the reduction of stormwater peak discharges after development of
the subject parcel to pre-development conditions for two (2)-year, ten (10)-
year, and one hundred (100)-year return frequency storm events and shall
include LID BMPs to provide for water quality improvements in the first on-half
inch of runoff from the site. Refer to the Omaha Regional Stormwater Design
Manual for information on BMPs. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-620 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; EXEMPTIONS FROM THE POST-CONSTRUCTION
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.  
   Systems designed to accommodate only one (1) single-family dwelling unit,
duplex, triplex, or quadraplex, provided the single unit is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale, are exempt from the requirements in
this Article to submit a Post-Construction Stormwater Management Plan. (Ord.
No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-621 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; MAINTENANCE OF POST-CONSTRUCTION BMPS.
     (A)   The owners and occupants of lands on which structural post-
construction BMPs have been installed to meet the requirements of this Article
shall ensure the maintenance of these BMPs and shall themselves maintain those
BMPs if other persons or entities who are also obligated to maintain those BMPs
(by contract or covenant, or pursuant to this Article) fail to do so.
Structural BMPs shall be inspected at least annually, and a written record of
inspection results and any maintenance work shall be maintained and available
for review by the City.
   (B)   The responsibility to maintain a BMP may be transferred through a
contract or other agreement. The person or entity accepting a maintenance
obligation in such a contract or agreement will also be legally obliged to
maintain that BMP pursuant to this Article. However, no contract or other
agreement imposing an obligation to maintain a BMP can relieve a person or
entity of any obligation to maintain a BMP imposed by this Article.
   (C)   The maintenance agreement shall require the applicant or owner to
execute an inspection and maintenance agreement, to be filled of record,
binding on all subsequent owners of land served by a private stormwater
management facility. Such agreement shall provide for access to the facility,
at reasonable tunes, for inspections by the City or its authorized
representative to ensure that the facility is maintained in proper working
condition to meet design standards.
   (D)   The applicant and/or owner shall record the maintenance agreement with
the Register of Deeds.
   (E)   The maintenance agreement shall also provide that if after notice by
the City to correct a violation requiring maintenance work, satisfactory
corrections are not made by the owner(s) or occupant within a reasonable period
of time (thirty (30) days maximum), the City may perform all necessary work to
place the facility in proper working condition. The owner(s) or occupant of the
facility shall be assessed the cost of the work and any lawful penalties. (Ord.
No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-622 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; ADMISSION TO PROPERTY.  
   (A)   Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of these rules and
regulations, the Director, upon the presentation of credentials, may enter upon
any property or premises at reasonable times for the purpose of:
      (1)   Copying any records required to be kept under the provisions of
this Article;
      (2)   Inspecting any BMPs; and
      (3)   Sampling any discharge to the municipal storm sewer system.
   (B)   The Director may enter upon the property at any hour under emergency
circumstances. The authority to so inspect, sample and copy records shall be
limited to only those things, and only the extent, that it has a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharges into the municipal storm sewer system.
(Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-623 STORMWATER REGULATIONS: REGULATORY ACTIONS.  
   If substances in violation of this Code are discharged or proposed to be
discharged into the municipal storm sewer system of the city or any tributary
thereto, the City may take action necessary to:
   (A)   Prohibit the discharge of such effluent;
   (B)   Require a discharger to demonstrate that modifications to such
discharger's facilities will reduce or eliminate the discharge of such
substances in conformity with this Article;
   (C)   Require pretreatment, including storage, detention or retention
facilities necessary to reduce or eliminate the objectionable characteristics
or substances so that the discharge will not violate these prohibitions and
limitations;
   (D)   Require the person making, causing, or allowing the discharge to pay
an additional cost or expense incurred by the City for taking remedial actions
as may be deemed to be desirable or necessary to achieve the purpose of this
Chapter.
   (E)   Require any combination or all of the above. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-624 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; NOTICE OF VIOLATION: CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Director finds that any person has violated or is violating
this Article or any prohibition, limitation or requirement contained herein,
such person shall be notified in writing. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-625 STORMWATER REGULATIONS: PENALTY; RECOVERY OF DAMAGES.
   Any person who is found to have violated an order provided for in this
Article, or who willfully or negligently failed to comply with any provisions
of this Article and the rules and regulations issued hereunder, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount that does not exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) under this Article. Each day any such violation or
failure to perform such act shall continue, shall constitute a separate
offense, unless otherwise specifically provided. Except as prohibited by the
State of Federal Constitutions, a prosecution under this Article shall not be
the exclusive penalty for such acts or omissions. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-626 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATION.
   The Director may make rules and regulations, which expand upon or add to the
provisions of this Article but are not inconsistent with them. Prior to taking
effect, such rules and regulations, or any amendments thereto, shall be
approved by resolution of the City Council, A copy of such rules and
regulations, with any current amendments, shall be on file with the City Clerk.
(Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-627 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the issuance, denial, suspension, cancellation,
modification, or revocation of any permit provided for in this Article or by
any other order of the Director, may within ten (10) days of the receipt of
written notice of the entry of such order, submit a written appeal to the City
Council at their next regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-628 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; CONFLICTS WITH OTHER CODE SECTIONS.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall control over any inconsistent or
conflicting provision of this Code. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
§ 11-629 STORMWATER REGULATIONS; SEVERABILITY.
   If any portion of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of this Chapter, and the
application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances, shall not be
affected thereby. (Ord. No. 960, 5/16/17)
 
