MUNICIPAL CODE
OF
ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
Contains 2024 S-34 Supplement,
Current through Ord. No. 1038, passed 4/3/23
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICERS
of
ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
2024
*****
Connie Jo Beck Clerk/Deputy Treasurer
Sally Einspahr Treasurer
Matthew Helzer Utility Superintendent
Jason White    Attorney
Daniel Howard  Chief of Police
Michael Becker Fire Chief
               
*****
CITY COUNCIL
Michael Feeken, Mayor
Brian V. Sack
Katie Kowalski
Chuck Schmid
Bill Peters
*****
ORDINANCES OF A GENERAL AND PERMANENT NATURE of the CITY of ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
ORDINANCE NO. ________
   An ordinance of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, revising the general
ordinances of the Municipality, repealing prior ordinances in conflict
herewith.
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA.
Section 1.   Codification. The general ordinances of the Municipality of St.
Paul, Nebraska, are hereby codified into ten chapters and the articles and
sections hereunder, which are adopted and declared to be ordinances of this
Municipality.
Section 2.   Repeal of Prior Ordinances in Conflict. All ordinances and parts
of ordinances of a general or permanent nature passed and approved prior to the
passage and approval of this codification ordinance and in conflict with this
ordinance or with any of the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed;
Provided, that in construing the provisions of this ordinance the following
ordinances shall not be considered or held to be ordinances of a general or
permanent nature, to-wit:
1.   Ordinances vacating streets and alleys.
2.   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
3.   Ordinances levying taxes or special assessments.
4.   Ordinances granting a franchise, or special license to persons, firms, or
corporations.
5.   Ordinances providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
6.   Ordinances establishing grades.
7.   Real Estate Transactions.
8.   Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances; specifically ordinance numbers 467
passed on October 4, 1976; 560 passed on March 22, 1982 and 566 passed on
November 1, 1982.
9.   Any other ordinance which by nature would be considered special.
Section 3.   Exceptions. The repeal of ordinances as provided in Section 2,
Ordinance No. ____ shall not affect any rights acquired, fines, penalties,
forfeitures, or liabilities incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of
the provisions of such ordinances and parts thereof prior to repeal. Such
ordinances above repealed are hereby continued in force and effect after the
passage, approval and publication of this general codification ordinance for
the purpose of all rights, fines, penalties, forfeitures, liabilities, and
actions therefor.
Section 4.   Defining Chapters, Articles, and Sections. The chapters, articles,
and sections as set forth herein shall be and hereby are declared to be the
chapters, articles, and sections of this general codification ordinance. All
ordinances hereafter passed by the local Governing Body of the Municipality
shall be numbered consecutively, beginning with No. _________.
Section 5.   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence,
clause, phrase, term, or provision of this ordinance should be declared invalid
by any court of competent jurisdiction for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this code, which will remain in full
force and effect, and the provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to
be severable.
Section 6.   Blanket Penalty. Any person, his agents, or servants who shall
violate any of the provisions of this Municipal Code unless otherwise
specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding one hundred
($100.00) dollars. Whoever aids, abets, procures, encourages, requests,
advises, or incites another to commit any act which is an offense under this
Code or under any other ordinance of the Municipality may be prosecuted and
punished as though he were the principal offender.
Section 7.   General Definitions:
1.   Person. Whenever used in this code, the word person shall include natural
persons, artificial persons, such as corporations, co-partnerships,
associations, and all aggregate organizations of whatever character.
2.   Gender and Number. All words used herein implying the masculine gender may
apply to, and include the feminine or neuter gender and all words importing the
plural may be applied to, and mean a single person, firm, or thing. All words
importing the singular number may be applied to and mean the plural number.
3.   Code, Ordinance, and Chapter. Municipal Code shall mean the General
Codification Ordinance No. ______. Ordinance and chapter are used synonymously
unless from the context the contrary clearly appears.
4.   Wholesale Dealer. The words wholesale dealer or sellers of said product at
wholesale shall embrace and include manufacturers of any product who sell the
said product to other persons for the purpose of future resale to consumers.
5.   Municipal and Municipality. The words Municipal and Municipality whenever
used in this code shall mean the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, a Municipal
Corporation.
6.   Governing Body. The words Governing Body, whenever they appear in this
Code mean the Mayor and City Council of the Municipality.
7.   Mayor. The word Mayor means the Chief Administrative Official of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
8.   Municipal Police. Municipal Police shall mean any police officer of the
Municipality whenever it appears in this Code.
Section 8.   Time. Whenever words fixing or importing time or the hour of the
day are used in this Code, they shall be construed to mean Central Standard
Time or Central Daylight Savings Time whichever is applicable.
Section 9.   Construction of Chapters, Articles, and Sections. For purposes of
construction each chapter contained and arranged in this Code shall be
considered as a separate and distinct ordinance grouped for convenience under
the General Codification Ordinance No. _____, each section appearing in the
several chapters of this Code shall be considered a separate and distinct unit
of legislation germane to the chapter or article under which it is grouped and
each article appearing in the said chapters shall be considered as a group of
legislative units germane to the chapter wherein it is placed. Any chapter,
article, or section duly enacted by the Governing Body of the Municipality and
included in this Code, and any other independent ordinance, chapter, article,
section, or subsection of an ordinance duly enacted shall be altered, amended,
or revised only by the complete nullification and repeal of such ordinance,
chapter, article, section, or subsection and by the substitution of a new
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection containing the entire
ordinance, chapter, article, section, or subsection as amended, altered, or
revised.
Section 10.   Publication and Distribution. This code was printed in book form
under the direction of the Governing Body, and shall be distributed as it may
see fit. (Ref. 17-613, 17-614 RS Neb.)
Section 11.   When Operative. This ordinance shall be in full force and shall
take effect from and after its passage, approval and publication according to
law.
   
      Passed and approved __________________,19____.
                        
__________________________
                        Mayor
(SEAL)
___________________________
Municipal Clerk
Chapter 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
Article 1. Elected Officials
§ 1-101   CITY MAYOR; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
The Mayor of the Municipality shall have the general, and immediate control
over all property, and officials, whether elected, or appointed, of the
Municipality. He shall preside at all meetings of the City Council, and may
vote when his vote shall be decisive and the Council is equally divided on any
pending matter, legislation, or transaction and the Mayor shall, for the
purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of the Council. His signature
must appear on the Municipal Clerk's minutes of all meetings, and he must sign
all resolutions which have been passed, and warrants for the payment of money
when ordered by the City Council; Provided, any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor
may be passed over his veto by a two-thirds (2/3) vote by the members of the
City Council, but if the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, and
returns it to the Council with his objections in writing at the next regular
Council meeting, the same shall become a law without his signature. He shall
from time to time communicate to the Council such information and
recommendations as, in his opinion, may improve the Municipality. He may
require at reasonable intervals any Municipal official to exhibit his accounts
and make reports to the Council on any subject pertaining to his office. He
shall have the power to remit fines or pardon any offense arising under the
ordinances of the Municipality. He may remove at any time an appointed police
officer of the Municipality. His territorial authority shall extend over all
places within five (5) miles of the corporate limits of the Municipality for
the enforcement of any health ordinance, and one half (´) mile in all matters
vested in him except taxation. He shall also have such other duties as the City
Council may by resolution confer upon him, or in any other matters which the
laws of the State of Nebraska repose in him. He shall be elected at the
Municipal Election, and shall serve a four (4) year term of office. Any
candidate for Mayor must have resided within the Municipality for forty (40)
days prior to filing for the said office and must in addition be a qualified
taxpayer. (Ref. 17-110 thru 17-117 RS Neb.)
§ 1-102   CITY COUNCIL; ACTING PRESIDENT.
The City Council shall elect one (1) of its own body each year who shall be
styled the President of the Council, and who shall preside at all meetings of
the City Council in the absence of the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, and
the President of the Council, the City Council shall elect one (1) of its own
body to occupy his place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting President of
the Council. Both the President of the Council and the Acting President of the
Council, when occupying the position of the Mayor, shall have the same
privileges as the other members of the City Council, and all acts of the
President of the Council, or Acting President of the Council, while so acting,
shall be as binding upon the City Council, and upon the Municipality as if done
by the elected Mayor. (Ref. 17-148 RS Neb.)
§ 1-103   CITY COUNCIL; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four (4) year
term. The City Council shall be the legislative division of the Municipal
Government, and shall perform such duties, and have such powers as may be
authorized by law. The City Council shall maintain the peace, regulate
business, protect the public health and safety, and assess such taxes and fees
as are necessary and appropriate in the exercise of these functions. (Ref. 17-
103, 17-104 RS Neb.)
§ 1-104   CITY COUNCIL; ORGANIZATION.
City Councilmembers of this Municipality shall take office, and commence their
duties on the first regular meeting in December following their election. The
newly elected Councilmembers who have qualified as prescribed by law, together
with the members of the City Council holding over, shall assemble in a regular
meeting at the hour and place hereinafter prescribed and perfect the
reorganization of the City Council as herein provided, and all appointive
offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired shall be filled by
appointment. After the said meeting has been called to order, the Municipal
Clerk shall report to the City Council the names of all City Councilmembers-
elect who have qualified for their respective offices, and this report shall be
spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. Each ward of
the Municipality shall be represented by at least two (2) Councilmembers. No
person shall be eligible who is not at the time of his election an actual
resident of the ward for which he is qualified and should any City
Councilmember move from the ward from which he was elected, his office shall
thereby become vacant. (Ref. 17-104 RS Neb.)
§ 1-105   ELECTED OFFICIALS; VACANCY.
Whenever a vacancy occurs in an elected office of the Municipality, except
Mayor, notice of said vacancy shall be presented in writing to the City Council
at a regular meeting and said notice shall appear as a part of the minutes of
such meeting.
   The City Council shall at once give public notice of the vacancy by causing
to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the Municipality
or by posting in three (3) public places in the Municipality the office vacated
and the length of the unexpired term.
   The Mayor shall within two (2) weeks after the regular meeting at which such
notice has been presented, or upon the death of the incumbent, call a special
meeting of the City Council at which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a
qualified elector to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term.
   No officer who is removed at a recall election or resigns after the
initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Governing Body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
   Upon a majority vote of approval by the City Council the vacancy shall be
filled. If a majority vote is not reached the nomination shall be rejected and
the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting submit the name of another
qualified elector. If the vote on the nominee fails to carry by majority vote,
the Mayor shall continue at such meeting to submit the names of qualified
electors and the City Council shall continue to vote upon such nominations
until the vacancy is filled.
   The Mayor shall cast his vote only in case of a tie vote of the City
Council.
   All City Council members shall cast a ballot for or against each nominee.
   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a City office as
provided above in this Section, call a special Municipal Election to fill such
vacancy.
   If there is a vacancy in the offices of a majority of the members of the
City Council, there shall be a special Municipal Election conducted by the
Secretary of State to fill such vacancies. (Ref. 32-4,152, 32-1406 RS Neb.)
§ 1-106   ELECTED OFFICIALS; MAYOR; VACANCY.
Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, or in case of his disability
or absence, the President of the Council shall exercise the office of Mayor
until such vacancy is filled or such disability is removed, or in case of
temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
   When the successful candidate for Mayor shall be prevented from assuming
office, the incumbent Mayor shall not be entitled to hold over the term, but
such office shall automatically become vacant and the President of the Council
shall exercise the office of Mayor until such vacancy is filled.
   If the President of the Council shall for any cause assume the office of
Mayor for the remainder of the unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the
Council which shall be filled as provided in Section 1-105. (Ref. 17-107, 17-
115 RS Neb.)
Article 2. Appointed Officials
§ 1-201   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
The Mayor, by, and with the consent of the City Council, may appoint such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Such
officers may be removed from office by the Mayor. The Mayor, by, and with the
consent of the City Council, shall appoint such a number of regular policemen,
and other officials as may be necessary, and may establish a police reserve
force as provided by law. All police officers, and other appointed officials
shall be subject to removal at any time by the Mayor. (Ref. 81-1438 thru 81-
1446 RS Neb.)
§ 1-202   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MERGER OF OFFICES.
The Governing Body of the Municipality may, in its discretion, by ordinance
combine, and merge any elective, or appointive office, or employment, except
the Mayor or a City Councilmember with any other elective, or appointive office
so that one or more of such offices may be held by the officer or employee at
the same time. Any offices so merged and combined shall always be construed to
be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be limited to a
consolidation of official duties only. The salary of the officer holding the
merged offices shall not be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for
the salary of the offices so combined. For purposes of this Section, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers. (Ref. 17-
108.02 RS Neb.)
§ 1-203   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL CLERK.
The Municipal Clerk shall attend the meetings of the Governing Body, and keep a
correct journal of the proceedings of that body. He shall keep a record of all
outstanding bonds against the Municipality and when any bonds are sold,
purchased, paid, or cancelled, said record shall show the fact. He shall make,
at the end of the fiscal year, a report of the business of the Municipality
transacted through his office for the year. That record shall describe
particularly the bonds issued, and sold during the year, and the terms of the
sale with each, and every item, and expense thereof. He shall file all official
bonds after the same shall have been properly executed, and approved. He shall
make the proper certificate of passage which shall be attached to original
copies of all bond ordinances hereafter enacted by the Governing Body.
   The Municipal Clerk shall issue, and sign all licenses, permits, and
occupation tax receipts authorized by law, and required by the Municipal
ordinances. He shall collect all occupation taxes, and license money except
where some other Municipal officer is specifically charged with that duty. He
shall keep a register of all licenses granted in the Municipality, and the
purpose for which they have been issued.
   The Municipal Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other
documents of the Municipality kept, and preserved in his office to be taken
therefrom, except by such officers of the Municipality as may be entitled to
the use of the same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor. He shall
keep all the records of his office, including a record of all licenses issued
by him in a blank book with a proper index. He shall include as part of his
records all petitions under which the Governing Body shall order public work to
be done at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with
references to all resolutions, and ordinances relating to the same. He shall
endorse the date, and hour of filing upon every paper, or document so filed in
his office. All such filings made by him shall be properly docketed. Included
in his records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other
documents incorporated by reference, and arranged in triplicate in a manner
convenient for reference. He shall keep, and preserve the proceedings of the
Governing Body in two (2) separate, and distinct record books. The Minute
Records shall contain a record of all the miscellaneous, and informal doings of
the Governing Body. The Minute Record shall not include the passage, and
approval of ordinances except such resolutions incorporating by reference the
Ordinance Record into the Minute Record. The Ordinance Record shall contain the
formal proceedings of the Governing Body in the matter of passing, approving,
publishing, posting, and certifying of ordinances. After the formalities for
the legal enactment of an ordinance have been completed, the Municipal Clerk
shall record, and spread at large in the Ordinance Record his ordinance minutes
on printed forms. In all cases hereafter where single ordinances are introduced
for the consideration of the Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk shall cause to
be introduced an appropriate resolution incorporating by reference the
Ordinance Record into the Minute Record. He shall keep an accurate, and
complete account of the appropriation of the several funds, draw, sign, and
attest all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund
from which the same is payable. At the end of each month, he shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds, and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any
citizen, official, or other person from examining any public records at all
reasonable times.
   The Municipal Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his charge to the Mayor for his signature. He shall also deliver to
officers, employees, and committees all resolutions, and communications which
are directed at said officers, employees, or committees. With the seal of the
Municipality, he shall duly attest the Mayor's signature to all ordinances,
deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do so by the
Governing Body. Within thirty (30) days after any meeting of the Governing
Body, the Municipal Clerk shall prepare, and publish the official proceedings
of the Governing Body in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
Municipality, and which was duly designated as such by the Governing Body. Said
publication shall set forth a statement of the proceedings thereof and shall
also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim, and
the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the names of all employees and their current annual, monthly, or hourly
salaries shall be published and any changes in salaries or the hiring of new
employees during the calendar quarter preceding the months of October, January,
and April shall be published during the months of November, February, and May;
Provided, the charge for such publication shall not exceed the rates provided
by the statutes of the State of Nebraska. Said publication shall be charged
against the General Fund. He shall then keep in a book with a proper index,
copies of all notices required to be published, or posted by the Municipal
Clerk by order of the Governing Body, or under the ordinances of the
Municipality. To each of the file copies of said notices shall be attached the
printer's affidavit of publication, if the said notices are required to be
published, or the Municipal Clerk's certificate under seal where the same are
required to be posted only.
   The Municipal Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving
districts, and other street improvements. He shall receive the claims of any
person against the Municipality, and in the event that the said claim is
disallowed in part, or in whole, the Municipal Clerk shall notify such
claimant, his agent, or attorney by letter within five (5) days after such
disallowance, and the Municipal Clerk shall then prepare transcripts on appeals
of any disallowance of a claim in all proper cases.
   The Municipal Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his office as set by resolution of the Governing Body. He shall
destroy Municipal records under the direction of the State Records Board
pursuant to Sections 84-1201 thru 84-1220; Provided, the Governing Body shall
not have the authority to destroy the Minutes of the Municipal Clerk, the
permanent ordinances, and resolution books, or any other records classified as
permanent by the State Records Board. (Ref. 17-605, 19-1102, 19-1104, 84-1201
thru 84-1220, 84-712 RS Neb.)
§ 1-204   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL TREASURER.
The Municipal Treasurer shall be the custodian of all moneys belonging to the
Municipality. He shall keep all money belonging to the Municipality separate,
and distinct from his own money. He shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation, and the debits, and credits belonging thereto. He shall issue
duplicate (2) receipts for all moneys received by him for the Municipality. He
shall give to every person paying money into the Municipal Treasury, a receipt
therefor, specifying the date of payment, and the account paid. One (1) of the
receipts shall be filed with his monthly report, and the last copy of the said
receipt shall be kept on file in his office. His books, and accounts shall
always be open for inspection by any citizen of the Municipality whenever any
Municipal fiscal record, audit, warrant, voucher, invoice, purchase order,
requisition, payroll check, receipt or other record of receipt, cash or
expenditure involving public funds is involved. He shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants, and other evidences of debt against the Municipality,
whenever paid by him, by writing, or stamping on the face thereof, "Paid by the
Municipal Treasurer," with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He
shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several
owners, and shall obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes. The Treasurer's daily cash book shall be footed
and balanced daily, and he shall adopt such bookkeeping methods as the
Governing Body shall prescribe. He shall invest and collect all money owned by,
or owed to, the Municipality as directed by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-606
thru 17-609, 84-712 RS Neb.)
§ 1-205   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S MONTHLY REPORT.
The Municipal Treasurer shall at the end of each, and every month, and such
other times as the Governing Body may deem necessary, render an account to the
Governing Body under oath showing the financial state of the Municipality at
that date, the amount of money remaining in each fund and the amount paid
therefrom, and the balance of money remaining in the Treasury. He shall
accompany the said account with a statement of all receipts, and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed, and paid by him. He shall also produce
depository evidence that all Municipal money is in a solvent, and going bank in
the name of the Municipality. If the Municipal Treasurer shall neglect, or fail
for the space of ten (10) days from the end of each and every month to render
his accounts as aforesaid, the Governing Body shall, by resolution, declare the
office vacant, and appoint some person to fill the vacancy. The Municipal
Treasurer shall be present at each regular meeting of the Governing Body at
which time he shall read, and file his monthly report. (Ref. 17-606 RS Neb.)
§ 1-206   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; TREASURER'S ANNUAL REPORT.
The Municipal Treasurer shall publish in a legal newspaper having general
circulation within the Municipality, within sixty (60) days following the first
(1st) day of August of each year, a report of the activities of his office
which said report shall show in detail. Said report shall include all receipts,
disbursements, warrants outstanding, and the debit, or credit balance of the
Municipality. (Ref. 19-1101 RS Neb.)
§ 1-207   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY.
The Municipal Attorney is the Municipality's legal advisor, and as such he
shall commence, prosecute all traffic offenses, and defend all suits on behalf
of the Municipality. When requested by the Governing Body, he shall attend
meetings of the Governing Body, and shall advise any Municipal Official in all
matters of law in which the interests of the Municipality may be involved. He
shall draft such ordinances, bonds, contracts, and other writings as may be
required in the administration of the affairs of the Municipality. He shall
examine all bonds, contracts, and documents on which the Governing Body will be
required to act, and attach thereto a brief statement in writing to all such
instruments, and documents as to whether, or not, the document is in legal, and
proper form. He shall prepare complaints, attend, and prosecute violations of
the Municipal ordinances when directed to do so by the Governing Body. Without
direction, he shall appear, and prosecute all cases for violation of the
Municipal ordinances that have been appealed to, and are pending in any higher
court. He shall also examine, when requested to do so by the Governing Body,
the ordinance records, and advise, and assist the Municipal Clerk as much as
may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in the
passage of each ordinance to insure that they will be valid, and subsisting
local laws in so far as their passage, and approval are concerned. The
Governing Body shall have the right to compensate the Municipal Attorney for
legal services on such terms as the Governing Body and the Municipal Attorney
may agree, and to employ any additional legal assistance as may be necessary
out of the funds of the Municipality. (Ref. 17-610 RS Neb.)
§ 1-208   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL PHYSICIAN.
The Municipal Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
Municipality, and perform the duties devolving upon him as the medical advisor
of the said board. In all injuries where a liability may be asserted against
the Municipality, the Municipal Physician shall immediately investigate the
said injuries, the extent thereof, and the circumstances. He shall then report
the results of his investigation with the name of the party injured, and all
other persons who may have personal knowledge of the matter. He shall make all
physical examinations, and necessary laboratory tests incident thereto, and
issue such health certificates as are required by ordinance. For the purpose of
making examinations of the sanitary conditions of the property, and the state
of health of the inhabitants therein, he shall have the right at all reasonable
hours to go upon, and enter all premises, buildings, or other structures in the
Municipality. He shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by
the laws of the State of Nebraska, and the ordinances of the Municipality. When
ordered to do so by the Governing Body he shall disinfect, or fumigate the
premises, or persons in or about the premises, when the premises are
quarantined, and to call upon indigent sick persons, and perform other
professional services at the direction of the Governing Body. The Municipal
Physician shall receive as compensation for his services such sum as the
Governing Body may from time to time set. He shall receive no compensation for
his services as a member of the Municipal Board of Health. (Ref. 17-121 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-209   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICE CHIEF.
The Municipal Police Chief shall direct the police work of the Municipality and
shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and order. He shall act as
Health Inspector, and Building Inspector, except in the event the Municipality
appoints another person. He shall file the necessary complaints in cases
arising out of violations of Municipal ordinances, and shall make all necessary
reports required by the Municipal ordinances, or the laws of the State of
Nebraska. (Ref. 17-107, 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 1-210   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL POLICEMAN.
The Municipal Police, whether regular, or special shall have the power to
arrest all offenders against the laws of the State of Nebraska, or the
Municipality, by day or by night, and keep the said offenders in the Municipal
jail, or some other place to prevent their escape until trial can be held
before the proper official of the State of Nebraska, or the Municipality. They
shall have full power, and authority to call on any person whenever necessary
to assist them in performing public duties, and failure, neglect, or refusal to
render such assistance shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction
by a fine. Every Municipal Policeman shall be expected to be conversant, and
knowledgeable with the Municipal and State laws and no law enforcement official
shall have any interest in any establishment having a liquor license. Municipal
Policemen shall have the duty to file such complaints and reports as may be
required by the Municipal ordinances, and the laws of the State of Nebraska.
Any Municipal Policeman who shall willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make an
arrest, or who purposely, and willfully fails to make a complaint after an
arrest is made shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
shall be fined. It shall be unlawful for the Governing Body to retain any
Municipal Policeman in that position after he shall have been duly convicted of
the willful violation of any law of the United States of America, the State of
Nebraska, or any ordinance of the Municipality, except minor traffic
violations. It shall be the duty of every Municipal Policeman making a lawful
arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person, whenever
possible, and shall carefully keep, and produce to the proper judicial official
upon the trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All personal
effects so taken from prisoners aforesaid shall be restored to them upon their
release. Suitable uniforms and badges shall be furnished to the Municipal
Police by the Municipality. Any member who shall lose or destroy the same shall
be required to pay the replacement costs, and in the event that any member
shall leave the force, he shall immediately deliver his badge to the Police
Chief. The Governing Body may from time to time provide the Municipal Police
with such uniforms, equipment, and transportation as may be essential in the
performance of their official duties. (Ref. 17-107, 17-118, 17-124 RS Neb.)
§ 1-211   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL FIRE CHIEF.
The Municipal Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department
and approved by the City Council. He shall enforce all laws and ordinances
covering the prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and
flammable substances; the installation of fire alarm systems; the maintenance
of fire extinguishing equipment; the regulation of fire escapes; and the
inspection of all premises requiring adequate fire escapes. He shall within two
(2) days investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires arising
within his jurisdiction. He shall, on or before the first (1st) day in April
and October of each year, cause the secretary to file with the Municipal Clerk,
and the Clerk of the District Court a certified copy of the rolls of all
members in good standing in their respective companies in order to obtain the
exemptions provided by law. He shall have the power during the time of a fire,
and for a period of thirty-six (36) hours thereafter to arrest any suspected
arsonist, or any person for hindering the department's efforts, conducting
himself in a noisy and disorderly manner, or who shall refuse to obey any
lawful order by the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. The Fire Chief, or his
assistant in charge of operations at a fire may command the services of any
person present at any fire in extinguishing the same or in the removal, and
protection of property. Failure to obey such an order shall be a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine. The Fire Chief shall have the right to enter at all
reasonable hours into buildings, and upon all premises within his jurisdiction
for the purpose of examining the same for fire hazards, and related dangers.
(Ref. 17-147, 17-505, 35-102, 35-108, 81-506, 81-512 RS Neb.)
§ 1-212   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL ENGINEER.
The Municipal Engineer shall make all surveys, estimates, and calculations
necessary to be made for the establishment of any public utilities, and the
costs of labor and materials therefor. He shall accurately make all plats,
sections, and maps as may be necessary under the direction of the Governing
Body. Upon request, he shall make estimates of the cost of labor and material
which may be done or furnished by contract with the Municipality, and make all
surveys, estimates, and calculations necessary to be made for the establishment
of grades, building of culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks,
power plant, public heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters and the
improvement of streets and erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform
such other duties as the Governing Body may require. When a Municipality has
appointed a Board of Public Works, and the Governing Body has by ordinance so
authorized, the Board shall have the right to utilize its own engineering
staff, and shall have the right to hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board of Public Works. Whenever the Governing Body has authorized, the
Board of Public Works shall have the right to purchase material and employ
labor for the enlargement and improvement of the water and electric
departments. (Ref. 17-150, 17-405, 17-568.01, 17-919, 81-839 RS Neb.)
§ 1-213   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL WATER COMMISSIONER.
The Municipal Water Commissioner shall have general supervision and control
over the Municipal Water System, and shall be primarily responsible for its
economic operation and prudent management. Included in the said water system
shall be the water plant, the pump house, all machinery, and appliances used in
connection with producing and distributing water to inhabitants of the
Municipality. All actions, decisions, and procedures of the Water Commissioner
shall be subject to the general directives and control of the Governing Body.
The Municipal Water Commissioner shall have the general control and supervisory
authority over all employees of the Water System which the Governing Body may
from time to time hire to operate and maintain the said system. Unless some
other official is specifically designated, he shall collect all money received
by the Municipality on account of the said system of waterworks, and shall
faithfully account for, and pay over to the Municipal Treasurer all such money
collected in the name of the Municipality and receive a receipt from the
Municipal Treasurer for the depository evidence of his faithful discharge of
this duty. This receipt shall then be filed with the Municipal Clerk, and the
second (2nd) copy shall be kept by the said Commissioner. He shall make a
detailed report to the Governing Body at least once every six (6) months, of
the condition of the said water system, of all mains, pipes, hydrants,
reservoirs, and machinery and such improvements, repairs, and extensions
thereof as he may think proper. The report shall show the amount of receipts
and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six (6) months. No money
shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or extensions of the said
waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the Commissioner. The Water
Commissioner who may be removed at any time by the Mayor, a two-thirds (2/3)
vote of the Governing Body, shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful
discharge of his duties which shall amount to not less than the amount set by
resolution of the Governing Body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The Water Commissioner shall perform such additional duties as may be
prescribed by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-107, 17-541, 17-543 RS Neb.)
§ 1-214   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL STREET COMMISSIONER.
The Municipal Street Commissioner shall, subject to the orders and directives
of the Governing Body, have general charge, direction, and control of all work
on the streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the Municipality, and shall
perform such other duties as the Governing Body may require. It shall be his
responsibility to see that gutters and drains therein function properly, and
that the same are kept in good repair. He shall, at the request of the
Governing Body make a detailed report to the Governing Body on the condition of
the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys, and bridges of the Municipality, and
shall direct their attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions,
additions, and additional employees as he may believe are needed to maintain a
satisfactory street system in the Municipality along with an estimate of the
cost thereof. He shall issue such permits, and assume such other duties as the
Governing Body may direct. (Ref. 17-107, 17-119 RS Neb.)
§ 1-215   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there is more
than one Municipal utility, and the Governing Body determines that it is in the
best interest of the Municipality to appoint one official to have the immediate
control over all the said Municipal utilities. The Utilities Superintendent may
be removed at any time by the Mayor. Any vacancy occurring in the said office
by death, resignation or removal may be filled in the manner hereinbefore
provided for the appointment of all Municipal officials. The Utilities
Superintendent's duties over the following departments shall be as stated
herein:
Sewer Department
The Utilities Superintendent shall have the immediate control, and supervision
over all the employees, and property that make up the Municipal sewer system,
subject to the general control, and directives of the Governing Body. He shall
at least every six (6) months, make a detailed report to the Governing Body on
the condition of the sewer system, and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional employees as he
may believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He shall
have such other duties as the Governing Body may delegate to him. He shall
issue permits for all connections to the Municipal sewer system, and inspect
and supervise all repairs made to the said system.
Electric System
The Utilities Superintendent shall have the immediate control and supervision
over all employees and property that make up the Municipal Electric System,
subject to the general control and directives of the Governing Body. He shall
at least every six (6) months, make a detailed report to the Governing Body on
the condition of the electrical system, and shall direct their attention to
such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions, and additional employees as
he may believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He shall
have such other duties as the Governing Body may delegate to him. He may be
removed at any time by the Mayor. (Ref. 17-107, 17-119, 17-541, 17-543 RS Neb.)
§ 1-216   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL DUMP OPERATOR.
The Municipal Dump Operator shall have the immediate control and supervision of
the Municipal Dump, and of all dumping of garbage, refuse, waste, and rubbish
thereon, subject to the general control and directives of the Utilities
Superintendent. He shall at least every six (6) months, make a detailed report
to the Governing Body on the condition of the dump, and shall direct their
attention to such improvements, additions, and additional employees as he may
believe are needed along with an estimate of the cost thereof. He shall issue
dumping permits if the Governing Body should require them and shall inspect and
supervise all work done to improve or extend the dump. He shall have such other
duties as the Governing Body through the Utilities Superintendent may delegate
to him. He may be removed at any time by the Mayor. (Ref. 17-107 RS Neb.)
§ 1-217   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL BUILDING INSPECTOR.
The Municipal Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections in
any area of the Municipality to determine whether all buildings and structures
are in compliance with the Municipal ordinances. The Building Inspector shall
act as Plumbing, Zoning and Electrical Inspector. He shall investigate all
complaints whether they are verbal, written, or in the form of a petition
alleging, and charging that a violation of the Municipal ordinances exists, and
that a building, or structure is unfit, or unsafe for human habitation. The
Building Inspector is authorized upon properly identifying himself to enter,
inspect, survey, and investigate between the hours of eight (8:00) o'clock
A.M., and five (5:00) o'clock P.M., or at any time if an emergency exists, or
if requested by the owner, or occupant thereof. He shall keep records of all
complaints received, inspection reports, orders, and complaints issued. The
records shall be available for public inspection, and he shall prepare an
annual report including statistics based on the records kept. The Building
Inspector shall have no financial interest in the furnishing of labor,
materials, or appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance of a
building, except where he is the owner of a building, and he shall not act as
an agent for any said dealer, or as an agent for the sale, lease, or rental of
any real estate. The Building Inspector shall report to the Governing Body as
often as they may deem necessary, and shall have such other duties, and issue
such permits as they may direct. The Building Inspector may be removed at any
time for good, and sufficient cause by the Governing Body. When acting in good
faith, and without malice in the scope of his official duties, the Building
Inspector shall not himself be held personally liable for any damages that may
accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required by him or by
reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his official duties. (Ref.
17-107 RS Neb.)
§ 1-218   APPOINTED OFFICIALS; MUNICIPAL CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.  
The Municipal Code Enforcement Official shall conduct surveys and make
inspections in any area of the Municipality to determine whether all properties
are in compliance with the Municipal nuisance ordinances. The Municipal Code
Enforcement Official shall report to the Governing Body as often as they may
deem necessary, and shall have such other duties as they may direct. (Ord. No.
835, 5/21/07)
Article 3. Bonds and Oath
§ 1-301   BONDS; FORM.
Official bonds of the Municipality shall be in form, joint and several, and
shall be made payable to the Municipality in such penalty as the Governing Body
may set by resolution; Provided, the penalty amount on any bond shall not fall
below the legal minimum, when one has been set by the State of Nebraska, for
each particular official. All official bonds of the Municipal officials shall
be executed by the principal named in such bonds and by at least two (2)
sufficient sureties who shall be freeholders of the county, or by the official
as principal and by a guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company; Provided
no Municipal official, while still in his official term of office, shall be
accepted as surety on any other official's bond, contractor's bond, license
bond, or appeal bond under any circumstances. Only companies that are legally
authorized to transact business in the State of Nebraska shall be eligible for
suretyship on the bond of an official of the Municipality. All said bonds shall
obligate the principal, and sureties for the faithful discharge of all duties
required by law of such principal, and shall inure to the benefit of the
Municipality and any persons who may be injured by a breach of the conditions
of such bonds. No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the
approval of the Governing Body, and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
said instrument by the Mayor and Municipal Clerk pursuant to the said approval
of the Governing Body. The premium on any official bond required to be given
may be paid out of the General Fund, or other proper Municipal fund, upon a
resolution to that effect by the Governing Body at the beginning of any
Municipal year. All official bonds, meeting the conditions herein, shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk for his official records, and it shall be the
duty of the Municipal Clerk to furnish a certified copy of any bond so filed
upon the payment of a fee which shall be set by resolution of the Governing
Body. In the event that the sureties on the official bond of any officer of the
Municipality, in the opinion of the Governing Body, become insufficient, the
Governing Body may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the said
officer may give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. In the event
that the officer should fail, refuse, or neglect to give a new bond, or
additional sureties to the satisfaction, and approval of the Governing Body
then the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or neglect, become vacant, and
it shall be the duty of the Governing Body to appoint a competent, and
qualified person to fill the said office. Any official who is re-elected to
office shall be required to file a new bond after each election. (Ref. 11-103
thru 11-118, 17-604 RS Neb.)
§ 1-302   OATH OF OFFICE; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
All officials of the Municipality, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
   "I __________________________________________ do solemnly swear that I will
support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State
of Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, and
without mental reservation, or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will
faithfully and impartially perform the duties of the office of
___________________________, according to law, and to the best of my ability.
And I do further swear that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force, or violence; and that during
such time as I am in this position I will not advocate, nor become a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this State by force or violence. So help
me God."
(Ref. 11-101 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Corporate Seal
§ 1-401   SEAL; OFFICIAL CORPORATE.
The official Corporate Seal of the Municipality shall be kept in the office of
the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, "City of St.
Paul, Howard County, Nebraska." The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression
of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances, and
all other official papers issued by order of the Governing Body and
countersigned by the Municipal Clerk. (Ref. 17-502 RS Neb.)
Article 5. Meetings
§ 1-501   MEETINGS; DEFINED.
Meetings, as used in this Article shall mean all regular, special, or called
meetings, formal or inform of a public body for the purposes of briefing,
discussion of public business, formation of tentative policy, or the taking of
any action. (Ref. 84-1409(2) RS Neb.)
§ 1-502   MEETINGS; PUBLIC BODY DEFINED.
Public Body as used in this Article shall mean:
   A.   The Governing Body of the Municipality,
   B.   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees, councils,
subunits, Certificate of Need appeal panels, or any other bodies, now or
hereafter created by Constitution, statute, or otherwise pursuant to law, and
   C.   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
This Article shall not apply to subcommittees of such bodies unless such
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body. (Ref. 84-1409(1) RS Neb.)
§ 1-503   MEETINGS; PUBLIC.
All public meetings as defined by law shall be held in a Municipal public
building which shall be open to attendance by the public. All meetings shall be
held in the public building in which the Governing Body usually holds such
meetings unless the publicized notice hereinafter required shall designate some
other public building or other specified place. The advance publicized notice
of all public convened meetings shall be simultaneously transmitted to all
members of the Governing Body and to the public by a method designated by the
Governing Body or by the Mayor if the Governing Body has not designated a
method. Such notice shall contain the time and specific place for each meeting
and either an enumeration of the agenda subjects known at the time of the
notice, or a statement that such an agenda kept continually current shall be
readily available for public inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
Except for items of an emergency nature, the agenda shall not be enlarged later
than twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled commencement of the meeting.
The Governing Body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items
of an emergency nature only, at such public meetings. The minutes of the
Municipal Clerk shall include the record of the manner and advance time by
which the advance publicized notice was given, a statement of how the
availability of an agenda of the then known subjects was communicated, the time
and specific place of the meetings, and the names of each member of the
Governing Body present or absent at each convened meeting. The minutes of the
Governing Body shall be a public record open to inspection by the public upon
request at any reasonable time at the office of the Municipal Clerk. Any
official action on any question or motion duly moved and seconded shall be
taken only by roll call vote of the Governing Body in open session. The record
of the Municipal Clerk shall show how each member voted, or that the member was
absent and did not vote. (Ref. 84-1408, 84-1409, 84-1411, 84-1413 RS Neb.)
§ 1-504 MEETINGS; CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative vote of a
majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly necessary for the
protection of the public interest or for the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual and if such individual has not requested a
public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating the closed
session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions may be held
for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
      (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
      (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or devices;
      (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct;
      (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if such person has
not requested a public meeting; or
      (e)   For the Community Trust created under section 81-11801.02 RS Neb.,
discussion regarding the amounts to be paid to individuals who have suffered
from a tragedy of violence or natural disaster.
   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for discussion of the
appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (2)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action shall mean a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise
to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under subdivision (1) (a) of
this section.
   (3)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary
for:
      (a)   The protection of the public interest; or
      (b)   The prevention of needless injury to the reputation of an
individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a majority vote of the
members of the public body. Such challenge and its disposition shall be
recorded in the minutes.
   (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public. No person or public body shall fail to invite a
portion of its members to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself
a subcommittee of the whole body for the purpose of circumventing the Open
Meetings Act. No closed session, informal meeting, chance meeting, social
gathering, email, fax, or other electronic communication shall be used for the
purpose of circumventing the requirements of the act.
   (5)   The Act does not apply to chance meetings or to attendance at or
travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body at which there
is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there is no vote or
other action taken regarding any matter over which the public body has
supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power. (Amended by Ord. No.
910, 12/19/11)
§ 1-505   MEETINGS; EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in such meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of Section 1-508 of this Article shall be complied
with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes of such emergency
meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any formal action taken at
the meeting shall be made available to the public by no later than the end of
the next regular business day. (Ref. 84-1411 RS Neb.)
§ 1-506   MEETINGS; MINUTES.
Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time, place,
members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
The minutes shall be public records and open to public inspection during normal
business hours.
Minutes shall be written and available for inspection within ten (10) working
days, or prior to the next convened meeting, whichever occurs earlier. (Ref.
84-1412, 84-1413 RS Neb.)
§ 1-507   MEETINGS; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (1)   A majority of all the members elected to the City Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but a fewer number of
members may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent
members. The Mayor shall be deemed a member of the City Council for purposes of
establishing a quorum when the Mayor's presence is necessary to establish the
quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an affirmative vote of at
least one-half of the elected members shall be required for the transaction of
business.
   (2)   On the passage or adoption of bylaw or ordinance, and every resolution
or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and nays shall
be called and recorded. A concurrence of a majority of the members elected to
the City Council shall be required. Any action taken on any question or motion
duly moved and seconded shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open
session, and the record shall state how each member voted, or if the member was
absent or not voting. The requirements of a roll call vote or viva voce vote
shall be satisfied by the Municipality utilizing an electronic voting device
which allows the yeas and nays of each member of the Governing Body to be
readily seen by the public.
   (3)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ref. 17-616, 84-1413 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord No. 1020, 3/15/21)
§ 1-508   MEETINGS; NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
The Municipal Clerk, Secretary, or other designee of each public body shall
maintain a list of the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall
make reasonable efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and
place of each meeting, and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting. (Ref.
84-1411 RS Neb.)
§ 1-509   MEETINGS; PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
Subject to the provisions of this Article, the public shall have the right to
attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies and all or any part
of a meeting of a public body except for closed meetings called pursuant to
Section 1-504 may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or
recorded by any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, camera, video
equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   It shall not be a violation of this Section for any public body to make and
enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of persons
attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing, broadcasting,
or recording its meetings. A body may not be required to allow citizens to
speak at each meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all
meetings. No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting. The body may require
any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify himself or
herself. No public body shall for the purpose of circumventing the provisions
of this Article hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too small to
accommodate the anticipated audience. No public body shall be deemed in
violation of this Section if it holds its meeting in its traditional meeting
place which is located in this State. No public body shall hold a meeting
outside the State of Nebraska. The public body shall, upon request, make a
reasonable effort to accommodate the public's right to hear the discussion and
testimony presented at the meeting. Public bodies shall make available at the
meeting, for examination and copying by members of the public, at least one (1)
copy of all reproducible written material to be discussed at an open meeting.
(Ref. 84-1412 RS Neb.)
§ 1-510   MEETINGS; REGULAR MEETING.
   (1)   The meetings of the Governing Body shall be held in City Hall unless
otherwise noticed in the published and posted meeting notice of the Mayor and
City Council. The City Hall is located in the City Offices, 704 6th Street,
Saint Paul, Nebraska and shall generally be the meeting place of the
Municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the first (1st) Monday and the
third (3rd) Monday of each month at the hour of six-thirty (6:30) P.M. In the
event there is not sufficient business to warrant a meeting on the third (3rd)
Monday of each month, the Mayor, upon notification to the members of the
Council, may postpone that meeting of the Governing Body to the meeting to be
held on the first (1st) Monday of the month next following the postponement.
   (2)   At all meetings of the Council, a majority of the Councilmembers shall
constitute a quorum to do business.
(Ref. 17-105 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 638, 10/21/91; 665, 1/3/95; 781, 4/
7/03; 1038, 4/3/23)
§ 1-511   MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
Special meetings may be called by the Mayor, or by three members of the City
Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in writing. The
call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the
journal by the Municipal Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the
Municipal Clerk shall notify the Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating
the time and its purpose. Notice of a special meeting need not be given to a
Councilmember known to be out of the state, or physically unable to be present.
A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and
compel the attendance of the absent members. Whether a quorum is present or
not, all absent members shall be sent for and compelled to attend.
   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the Municipal Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council. In the absence of both the Mayor
and the President of the Council, the City Councilmembers shall elect a
President pro tempore. All Ordinances passed at any special meeting shall
comply with procedures set forth in Chapter 1, Article 6 herein. (Ref. 17-106
RS Neb.)
§ 1-512   MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS
All meetings of the Governing Body shall be open to the public. Promptly at the
hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the members of the
Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk, the Mayor, and such other Municipal
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the Municipality shall be taken up for
consideration, and disposition in the following order:
   Reading and Approval of the Minutes of the Previous Meeting
   Building Permits
   Claims
   General Meeting
§ 1-513   MEETINGS; PARLIAMENTARY PROCDURE.
The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the Governing Body and shall
decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Governing Body. When
any person is called to order, he shall be seated until the point is decided.
When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the meeting room.
Every person present, previous to speaking shall rise from his seat and address
himself to the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine himself to
the question. When two (2), or more persons rise at once, the Mayor shall
recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall be reduced
to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the Municipal Clerk, or any
member of the Governing Body. Every member of the Governing Body who is present
when a question is voted upon, shall cast his vote unless excused by a majority
of the Governing Body present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Governing Body making the motion, or resolution
shall be entered also. After each vote, the ''Yeas'' and ''Nays'' shall be
taken, and entered in the minutes upon the request of any member of the
Governing Body. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion, or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor thereof
with the consent of the member of the Governing Body seconding the said
resolution, motion, or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance,
different times, or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the
largest sum, or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order
when made by a member voting with the majority, but such motion to reconsider
must be made before the expiration of the third (3rd) regular meeting after the
initial consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no
motion shall be made, entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a
motion to table, and to adjourn. Each of the said motions shall be decided
without debate. Any of the rules of the Governing Body for meetings may be
suspended by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members present. In all cases in
which provisions are not made by these rules, Robert's Rules of Order is the
authority by which the Governing Body shall decide all procedural disputes that
may arise.
§ 1-514   MEETINGS; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
The change in office shall be made as follows: The Mayor and Council shall meet
on the first regular meeting date in December of each year in which a Municipal
election is held and the outgoing officers and the outgoing members of the
Council shall present their reports, and upon the old Council having completed
its business up to the said time, the outgoing members of the Council shall
surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the outgoing officers
shall thereupon each surrender to his successor in office all property,
records, papers and moneys, belonging to the same. (Ref. 17-107.02(9) RS Neb.)
§ 1-515   MEETINGS; ORGANIZATIONAL.
The newly elected Council shall convene at the regular place of meeting in the
City on the first (1st) regular meeting in December of each year in which a
Municipal election is held immediately after the prior Council adjourns and
proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor elected for the
new municipal year shall call the meeting to order. The Council shall then
proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective officers
of the City to see that each has been duly and properly elected, and to see
that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required. After ascertaining
that all members are duly qualified, the Council shall then elect one of its
own body who shall be styled as ''President of the Council.'' The Mayor shall
then nominate his candidates for appointive offices. He shall then proceed with
the regular order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every
member of the Council, or his or her successor in office, and of each officer
elected to any office, to qualify prior to the first (1st) regular meeting in
December following his election. All appointive officers shall qualify within
two (2) weeks following their appointments. Qualification for each officer who
is not required to give bond shall consist in his subscribing and taking an
oath to support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the
State of Nebraska, the laws of the Municipality and to perform faithfully and
impartially the duties of his office, said oath to be filed in the office of
the Municipal Clerk. Each officer who is required to give a bond shall file the
required bond in the office of the Municipal Clerk with sufficient sureties,
conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of his office, with the
oath endorsed thereon.
§ 1-516   MEETINGS; TELEPHONE CONFERENCE CALLS; WHEN ALLOWED.
   (1)   A meeting of the governing body of a joint entity formed under the
Interlocal Cooperation Act or of the governing body of a risk management pool
or its advisory committees organized in accordance with the Intergovernmental
Risk Management Act may be held by telephone conference call if:
      (a)   The territory represented by the member public agencies of the
entity or pool covers more than one county;
      (b)   Reasonable advance publicized notice is given which identifies each
telephone conference location at which a member of the entity's or pool's
governing body will be present;
      (c)   All telephone conference meeting sites identified in the notice are
located within public buildings used by members of the entity or pool or at a
place which will accommodate the anticipated audience;
      (d)   Reasonable arrangements are made to accommodate the public's right
to attend, hear, and speak at the meeting, including seating, recordation by
audio recording devices, and a reasonable opportunity for input such as public
comment or questions to at least the same extent as would be provided if a
telephone conference call was not used;
      (e)   At least one copy of all documents being considered is available to
the public at each site of the telephone conference call;
      (f)   At least one member of the governing body of the entity or pool is
present at each site of the telephone conference call identified in the public
notice;
      (g)   The telephone conference call lasts no more than one hour; and
      (h)   No more than one-half of the entity's or pool's meetings in a
calendar year are held by telephone conference call.
   (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the participation of
consultants, members of the press, and other nonmembers of the governing body
at sites not identified in the public notice. Telephone conference calls shall
not be used to circumvent any of the public government purposes established in
sections 84-1408 to 84-1414 RS Neb. (Ref. 84-1411(3) RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 743, 5/
15/00)
Article 6. Ordinances
§ 1-601 ORDINANCES; GRANT OF POWER.
The Governing Body shall have the responsibility of making all ordinances, by-
laws, rules, regulations, and resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of
the State of Nebraska, as may be necessary and proper for maintaining the
peace, good government, and welfare of the Municipality and its trade,
commerce, and security. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.)
§ 1-602   ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION.
Ordinances shall be introduced by members of the Governing Body in either of
the following ways:
   1.   With the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Council read aloud the
substance of his proposed ordinance and file a copy of the same with the
Municipal Clerk for future consideration;
   2.   Or with the recognition of the Mayor, a Councilmember may present his
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
same and shall file the same for future consideration.
§ 1-603 ORDINANCES; RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
Resolutions and motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed
for the introduction of ordinances. After their introduction, they shall be
fully and distinctly read one (1) time in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Council. The issue raised by said
resolutions or motions shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of
parliamentary law adopted for the guidance of the Council. A majority vote
shall be required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution
or motion shall be by roll call vote.
§ 1-604   ORDINANCES; STYLE.
The style of all Municipal ordinances shall be:
   ''Be it ordained by the Mayor and Council of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska:
''
(Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-605   ORDINANCES; TITLE.
No ordinance shall contain a subject not clearly expressed in its title. (Ref.
17-614 RS Neb.)
§ 1-606   ORDINANCES; PASSAGE.
Ordinances, resolutions, or orders for the appropriation of money shall require
for their passage the concurrence of the majority of the members of the
Governing Body. Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
the title on three (3) different days. This requirement may be suspended by
threefourths (3/4) vote of the Council, in such case said ordinance may be read
by title or number and then moved for final passage. Three-fourths (3/4) of the
Council may require any ordinance to be read in full before final passage under
either process. (Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
§ 1-607 ORDINANCES; PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
All ordinances of a general nature shall be published one (1) time within
fifteen (15) days after they are passed in some newspaper published in the
Municipality, or if no paper is published in the Municipality, then by posting
a written or printed copy thereof in each of three (3) public places in the
Municipality. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-608   ORDINANCES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
The passage, approval, and publication or posting of all ordinances shall be
sufficiently proven by a certificate under the Seal of the Municipality from
the Municipal Clerk showing that the said ordinance was passed and approved,
and when, and in what paper the same was published, or when, and by whom, and
where the same was posted. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-609   ORDINANCES; EMERGENCY ORDINANCE,
In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other impending
danger, failure of a public utility, or other emergency requiring its immediate
operation, such ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation of the Mayor,
and the posting thereof in at least three (3) of the most public places in the
Municipality. Such emergency notice shall recite the emergency and be passed by
a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the Governing Body, and entered upon the
Municipal Clerk's minutes. (Ref. 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-610   ORDINANCES; AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended, and
the ordinance or section so amended shall be repealed. (Ref. 17-614 RS Neb.)
Article 7. Elections
§ 1-701   ELECTIONS; GENERALLY.
The Municipal primary and general election shall be held in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter Thirty-two (32) Revised Statutes of Nebraska. Said
elections shall be held in conjunction with the State Primary and General
Election. Prior to February One (1) of the year in which the first (1st) such
joint election takes place, the Governing Body shall receive the consent in
writing of the County Board to so hold the election and such authorization
shall be prescribed according to state law. The County Clerk shall have charge
of the election and shall have the authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk
for Municipal election purposes. Charges shall be paid to the County Clerk as
set forth in Section 32-4,147 RS Neb.
   Commencing with the Statewide Primary Election in 1976, and every two (2)
years thereafter, those candidates for Mayor and for positions on the City
Council whose terms will be expiring shall be nominated at the Statewide
Primary Election and elected at the Statewide General Election. (Ref. 17-107.02
(1),(2), 32-4,146, 32-4,147 RS Neb.)
§ 1-702   ELECTIONS; TERM OF OFFICE.
All elected officers of the Municipality shall serve a term of four (4) years
and until their successors are elected and have qualified. (Ref. 17-107.02 (2)
RS Neb.)
§ 1-703   ELECTIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION, NUMBER OF CANDIDATES FILING.
If the number of candidates properly filed for nomination at the primary
election does not exceed two (2) for each vacancy to be filled, all candidates
properly filed shall be considered nominated, and no primary election for their
nomination shall be required. (Ref. 17-107.02(4) RS Neb.)
§ 1-704   ELECTIONS; TIE VOTES.
In the case of a tie vote of any of the candidates in either the primary or
general election, the County Clerk shall notify such candidates to appear at
his office on a given day and hour to determine the same by lot before the
canvassing board, and the certificate of nomination or election shall be given
accordingly. Notice to appear shall be given by certified mail. (Ref. 17-107.02
(6) RS Neb.)
§ 1-705   ELECTIONS; GENERAL ELECTION, PREPARATION OF BALLOT.
When more than one person becomes a candidate by filing, petition, or write-in
procedures for the same position in the primary, the County Clerk, in preparing
the official ballot for the general election shall place thereon the names of
the persons who received the greatest number of votes in the primary, but in no
event shall the names on the general election ballot be more than twice the
number of vacancies to be filled at the general election.
   The County Clerk shall place the names of the candidates on the general
election ballot in the direct order according to the number of votes received
at the primary election. If no primary election was held, the name of the
candidates shall be placed upon the general election ballot in the order of
their filing. (Ref. 17-107.02(6) &(7) RS Neb.)
§ 1-706   ELECTIONS; JOINT, GENERAL.
The general Municipal election shall be held in accordance with the provisions
of Chapter thirty-two (32), Revised Statutes of Nebraska. The Governing Body
has determined, by ordinance duly adopted, to hold the Municipal Election in
conjunction with the Statewide Primary Election, held on the first (1st)
Tuesday after the second (2nd) Monday in May of each even numbered year. Prior
to February one (1) of the year, in which the first such joint election takes
place, the Governing Body shall receive the consent in writing of the County
Board to so hold the election and such authorization shall be prescribed
according to State law. The County Clerk shall have charge of the election and
shall have the authority to deputize the Municipal Clerk for Municipal election
purposes. (Ref. 32-505, 32-4,147 RS Neb.)
§ 1-707   ELECTIONS; JOINT, GENERAL, NOTICE.
The County Clerk shall publish in a newspaper designated by the County Board
the notice of the election no less than forty (40) days prior to the Primary or
General Election. This notice will serve the notice requirement for all
Municipal Elections which are held in conjunction with the County. (Ref. 32-
402.01 RS Neb.)
§ 1-708   ELECTIONS; JOINT, SPECIAL.
In lieu of submitting a matter or issue at a separate special Municipal
Election, the Municipality may submit such matter or issue at a statewide
General or Primary Election or at a scheduled County Election or may request
the County to conduct a special election. Such matter or issue must be
certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
at least fifty (50) days prior to the election. The Municipal Clerk shall be
responsible for the publication or posting of any required special notice of
the submission of such matter other than that required to be given of the
statewide election issues.
§ 1-709   ELECTIONS; FILING FEE.
Prior to the filing of any nomination papers, there shall be paid to the
Municipal Treasurer a filing fee which shall amount to one (1%) per cent of the
annual salary for the office for which the candidate will file; Provided, there
shall be no filing fee for any candidate filing for an office in which a per
diem is paid rather than a salary, or an office for which there is a salary of
less than five hundred ($500.00) dollars per year. No nominating papers shall
be filed until the proper Municipal Treasurer's receipt, showing the payment of
the filing fee, shall be presented to the election officer with whom the
nomination papers are to be filed. (Ref. 32-513 RS Neb.)
§ 1-710   ELECTIONS; PETITION CANDIDATE
Candidates for any Municipal office in the Municipality may be nominated by
petition. Petitions shall contain signatures of registered voters totaling not
less than ten (10%) per cent of the total votes received by the candidate
receiving the highest number of votes in the Municipality or ward at the
preceding general election in which officers were last elected to such office.
They shall be accompanied by a treasurer's receipt for the filing fees for the
office being sought. All petitions shall provide a space at least two and one
half (2-1/2") inches long for written signatures, a space at least two (2")
inches long for printed names, and sufficient space for any additional
information which may be required. Lines on such petitions shall not be less
than one-fourth (1/4") inch apart. Petitions may be designed in such a manner
that lines for signatures and other information run the length of the page
rather than the width. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform
to the requirements of Section 32-713 RS Neb. Petitions must be filed at least
sixty (60) days prior to the State Primary. (Ref. 32-4,156, 32-504, 32-513, 32-
535, 32-713, RS Neb.)
§ 1-711   ELECTIONS; OFFICIALS.
The Election Commissioner shall select and appoint three (3) qualified persons
as judges of election and two (2) qualified persons as clerks of election for
each election district in the county. They shall be persons of good repute and
character, able to read and write the English language, and eligible to qualify
as electors of the county in which such election is held. No person shall be
appointed as judge or clerk of election who is a candidate for office at such
election, except candidates for membership of school boards and delegates to a
county political convention, or an employee of any political subdivision,
except an employee of a utility district, or a teacher of the public school
system. (Ref. 32-210 RS Neb.)
§ 1-712   ELECTIONS; OFFICIALS OATH.
Previous to any votes being received, the judges and clerks of election shall
severally take an oath or affirmation according to the form authorized by State
law. If there is no judge present at the opening of the polls, it shall be
lawful for the judges of election to administer the oath to each other and the
clerks of election. The person administering such oath shall cause an entry to
be made thereof and affixed to each poll book. (Ref. 11-101.01, 32-413, 32-414
RS Neb.)
§ 1-713   ELECTIONS: VOTER QUALIFICATIONS.
Electors shall mean every person of the constitutionally prescribed age or
upwards, who shall have the right to vote for all officers to be elected to
public office, and upon all questions and proposals, lawfully submitted to the
voters at any and all elections authorized or provided for by the Constitution
or the laws of the State of Nebraska, except school elections; Provided, no
person shall be qualified to vote at any election unless such person shall be a
resident of the State and shall have been properly registered with the election
official of the county. (Ref. 17-602, 32-102 RS Neb.)
§ 1-714   ELECTIONS: WARDS.
The Election Districts of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska shall be the North
Ward (Ward 2) and the South Ward (Ward 1), and the Mayor and City Council of
the City of St. Paul, Nebraska hereby determine that these wards are
substantially equal in population.
WARD ONE
   The South Ward of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska (Ward 1) shall include all
that portion of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska lying south of Howard Avenue and
all that part of St. Paul, Nebraska lying east of Second Street.
WARD TWO
   The North Ward of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska (Ward 2) shall include all
that portion of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska lying north of Howard Avenue
except that part of the City St. Paul, Nebraska lying east of Second Street.
(Ref. 17-102 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 632, 7/17/91)
§ 1-715   ELECTIONS; COUNCILMEMBERS.
Councilmembers shall be elected from the Municipality at large unless the
residents of the Municipality have voted to elect its Councilmembers by wards.
Councilmembers shall serve for a term of four (4) years and shall be a resident
and qualified elector. If the election of Councilmembers takes place by wards,
each nominee for Councilmember shall be a resident and qualified elector of the
ward for which he is a candidate, and only residents of that ward may sign the
candidate's nomination petitions. (Ref. 5-108 RS Neb.)
§ 1-716   ELECTIONS; BALLOTS.
The County Clerk shall provide printed ballots for every general Municipal
election and the expense of printing and delivering the ballots and cards of
instruction shall be a charge upon the Municipality. (Ref. 32-417, 32-418 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-717   ELECTIONS; CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
After the canvass of the vote at the Municipal election, the Municipal Clerk
shall prepare a certificate of election for each person whom the Canvassing
Board has declared to have received the highest vote, and in the form as nearly
as possible prescribed by State law, which shall be signed by the Mayor under
the seal of the Municipality, and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk. The
said certificate shall then be delivered to the persons so elected. (Ref. 32-
4,111, 32-4,152 RS Neb.)
§ 1-718   ELECTIONS; INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
In any general election, where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased, or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he was a candidate, and the electorate had
reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the candidate
in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall be
declared elected, and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
Provided, that any candidate so declared elected received not less than thirty-
five (35%) per cent of the total number of votes cast for such office in the
election. If any of the qualifications of this Section are not met by the
candidate to be declared elected, or reasonable notice of the winners
ineligibility is not available to the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be
declared to exist at the time of commencement of the term and shall be filled
as prescribed by law. (Ref. 32-537 (7) & (8) RS Neb.)
§ 1-719   ELECTIONS; RECALL PROCEDURE.
Any or all of the elected officials of the Municipality may be removed from
office by the registered voters of the Municipality. Petition papers, to do
such, shall be procured from and filed with the Municipal Clerk, who shall keep
a sufficient number of such blank petition papers on file for distribution. An
affidavit to procure such papers shall be made by one (1) or more registered
voters and filed with the Municipal Clerk, stating the name and office of the
officer or officers sought to be removed. The Clerk, upon issuing any petition
paper, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her office, the name of
the registered voter or voters to whom issued, the date of such issuance, and
the number of papers issued and shall certify on the papers the name of the
registered voter or voters to whom the papers were issued and the date they
were issued.
   Circulators of such petitions shall comply will all requirements of the
Statutes of Nebraska. Such petition demanding that recall be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least thirty-five (35%) per cent of the total votes cast at the last General
Municipal Election, except for an office where more than one (1) candidate is
chosen in which case the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in
number to at least thirty-five (35%) per cent of the number of votes cast for
the person receiving the most votes for such office in the last General
Election. If officers are elected by ward, only registered voters of that
officer's ward may sign a recall petition or vote at the recall election.
   All petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature verification as
one instrument within thirty (30) days of issuance of the original petition
papers. Within ten (10) days after the filing of the petition, the Clerk shall
ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the requisite number of
registered voters and shall attach to the petition a certificate showing
whether any signatures need to be corrected in order to comply with the
requirements of this Section and State Statutes. If the Clerk finds incorrect
signatures, he or she shall promptly notify the person filing the petition that
the petition may be cured at any time within ten (10) days after the giving of
such notice by the filing of a supplementary petition, with the corrected
signatures, on additional petition papers issued and filed as provided for the
original petition. No new signatures may be added after the initial filing of
the petition and no signatures may be removed unless the Clerk receives an
affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her signature be removed. The
Clerk shall, within five (5) days after any correction, examine the corrected
petition and attach a certificate as in the case of the original petition. If
the certificate shows the corrected petition to be insufficient or if no
correction was made, the Clerk shall file the petition in his or her office
without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
   If the petition or corrected petition is found to be sufficient, the Clerk
shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination and shall notify the officer whose removal is sought. If the
officer does not resign within five (5) days after the notice, the Clerk shall
submit, within ten (10) days after the five (5) day period has elapsed, the
original petition and supplement, together with his or her certificates, to the
Governing Body. Upon receipt of such petition and certificate, the Governing
Body shall order an election to be held not less than thirty (30) nor more than
forty-five (45) days after the five (5) day period, except that if any other
election is to held in that district within ninety (90) days of the five (5)
day period the Governing Body may provide for the holding of the removal
election on the same day.
   No recall petition shall be filed against members of the Governing Body
within twelve (12) months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six (6) months from the end of his or her term of
office. (Ref. 32-1401 thru 32-1408 RS Neb.)
§ 1-720   ELECTIONS; CANDIDATE QUALIFICATIONS.
Any person seeking elected office in the Municipality shall be a registered
voter prior to holding such office and in addition shall have reached the age
of majority. The Mayor and members of the Council shall be residents and
qualified electors of the City. They shall not hold any other public elective
public office, except for officers of public power districts, public power and
irrigation districts, and public utility companies. (Ref. 17-108.02, 32-4,157
RS Neb.)
§ 1-721   ELECTIONS; EXIT POLLS.
No person shall conduct any exit poll, public opinion poll, or any other
interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter preference
within twenty (20') feet of the entrance of any polling place room or, if
inside the polling place building, within one hundred (100') feet of any voting
booth. (Ref. 32-1221 RS Neb.)
Article 8. Fiscal Management
§ 1-801   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; FISCAL YEAR.
The fiscal year of the Municipality for the purposes of taxation and
appropriations, shall begin the first (1st) day in August of each year. (Ref.
17-701 RS Neb.)
§ 1-802   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; FILING BUDGET STATEMENT.
The Governing Body shall, not later than the first (1st) day of August of each
year on forms prescribed and furnished by the Nebraska State Auditor, prepare
in writing and file with the Municipal Clerk a proposed budget statement
containing the following:
1.   For the immediate two (2) prior fiscal years, the budgeted revenue and
expenditures from all sources, separately stated as to each such source, and
for each fund the budgeted unencumbered cash balance of such fund at the
beginning of each fiscal year;
2.   For the current fiscal year, the budgeted revenue and expenditures, from
all sources, separately stated as to each such source, and for each fund the
budgeted unencumbered cash balance of such fund at the beginning of the
year.Such statement shall contain the cash reserve for each such fund for each
fiscal year. Such cash reserve projections shall be based upon the actual
experience of prior years. The cash reserve shall not exceed fifty (50%) per
cent of the total budget adopted for such fund, exclusive of capital outlay
items; and
3.   For the immediate ensuing fiscal year, the budget statement should include
an estimate of the non-tax revenue from each source and which fund it is to be
allocated to, the actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance for each fund
which will be available at the beginning of the next fiscal year, amounts
proposed to be expended during the year, and the amount of cash reserve which
shall not exceed fifty (50%) per cent of the total budget adopted, exclusive of
capital outlay items.
   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the ensuing
fiscal year less all estimated and actual unencumbered balances at the
beginning of the year and less the estimated income from all sources other than
taxation shall equal the amount to be received from taxes, and such amount
shall be shown on the proposed budget statement filed pursuant to this Section.
The amount to be raised from taxation, as determined herein, plus the estimated
revenue from sources other than taxation, and the unencumbered balances shall
equal the estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the ensuing
year. (Ref. 23-923, 23-924 RS Neb.)
§ 1-803   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET HEARING.
Subsequent to the filing of the proposed budget statement, the Governing Body
shall publish a proposed budget and conduct a public hearing on the proposed
budget statement. Notice of the place and time of the said hearing, as well as
a copy of the proposed budget, shall be published at least five (5) days prior
to the date set for the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Municipality. After such hearing, the statement shall be adopted, or amended,
and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be made of such hearing. If
the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in the published
proposed budget statement, a summary of such changes shall be published within
twenty (20) days after its adoption. (Ref. 23-925 RS Neb.)
§ 1-804   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET FILING.
The Governing Body shall file with, and certify to the levying board on, or
before August twenty-fifth (25th) and file with the Nebraska State Auditor a
copy of the adopted budget statement, together with the amount of the tax to be
levied and proof of publication. The Governing Body shall not certify any tax
that exceeds the maximum levy prescribed by State law;provided, in certifying
the amount to be so levied, allowance may be made for delinquent taxes not
exceeding five (5%) per cent of the amount to be levied plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year. (Ref. 23-927 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-805   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BUDGET PROCEDURE.
The Manual of Instructions for City/Village: Budgets, prepared by the Auditor
of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Lincoln, Nebraska 68509 is incorporated by
reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 1-806   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; APPROPRIATIONS.
The Governing Body shall, on or before August 15th, pass an ordinance to be
termed The Annual Appropriation Bill, in which are appropriated such sums of
money as may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and
liabilities of the Municipality, not exceeding in the aggregate the amount of
tax authorized to be levied. The said ordinance shall specify the objects and
purposes for which such appropriations are to be made, and the amount
appropriated for each purpose. Any balance unexpended and unobligated at the
end of the fiscal year shall, unless reappropriated, lapse into the general
fund. (Ref. 17-706 RS Neb.)
§ 1-807   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ALL PURPOSE LEVY.
The Governing Body has determined that the amount of money to be raised by
taxation shall be certified to the County Clerk in the form of one all purpose
levy instead of certifying a schedule of levies for specific purposes added
together. Said all purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of one dollar
and five cents ($1.05) on each one hundred ($100.00) dollars upon the actual
valuation of all taxable property in the Municipality, except intangible
property. (Ref. 19-1309 RS Neb.)
§ 1-808   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXTRAORDINARY LEVY.
Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the Municipality and to pay judgments obtained against the
Municipality may be made in addition to the all purpose levy. (Ref. 19-1309 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-809   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; INADEQUATE VALUATION.
If the valuation of the Municipality has been reduced so that the maximum levy
permitted by Section 1-807 is inadequate to produce the necessary revenue, said
maximum levy may be exceeded upon presentation to the Governing Body of
petitions signed by a majority of the registered voters of the Municipality
requesting such action and specifying the extent to, and the period of time,
not to exceed five (5) years, in which such maximum may be exceeded. No
signature may be withdrawn after the petitions have been filed with the
Governing Body. The Governing Body shall cause such petitions, accompanied by
the certificate of the County Clerk that he has examined the petitions and that
they have been signed by a majority of the registered voters of the
Municipality, to be filed with the County Board in which the Municipality is
located. After such filing, the Governing Body may exceed the maximum mill levy
to the extent and for the period of time specified in the petitions. (Ref. 19-
1309 RS Neb.)
§ 1-810   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ALL PURPOSE LEVY, ALLOCATION.
The Governing Body shall allocate the amount raised by the all purpose levy to
the several departments of the Municipality in its annual budget and
appropriation ordinance, or in other legal manner, as the Governing Body shall
deem best. (Ref. 19-1310 RS Neb.)
§ 1-811   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ALL PURPOSE LEVY, ABANDONMENT.
The Municipality shall be bound by its election of the all purpose levy during
the ensuing fiscal year, but may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal
years. (Ref. 19-1311 RS Neb.)
§ 1-812   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; GENERAL PROPERTY TAX.
The Governing Body shall cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount
of tax to be levied upon the assessed value of all the taxable property of the
Municipality for the requirements of the adopted budget for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes. The maximum amount of tax which
may be certified and assessed shall not require a tax levy in excess of the
legal maximum as prescribed by State law. (Ref. 17-702 RS Neb.)
§ 1-813   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; EXPENDITURES.
No Municipal official shall have the power to appropriate, issue, or draw any
order or warrant on the Municipal Treasury for money, unless the same has been
appropriated or ordered by ordinance. No expenditure for any improvement to be
paid for out of the general fund of the Municipality shall exceed in any one
(1) year the amount provided for that improvement in the adopted budget
statement. (Ref. 17-708 RS Neb.)
§ 1-814   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CONTRACT.
The Governing Body shall before making any contract in excess of ten thousand
($10,000.00) dollars as estimated by the Municipal Engineer, for general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
or work on streets, or any other work or improvement where the cost of such
improvement shall be assessed to the property, advertise for bids, unless such
contract shall be entered into for the benefit of the Municipal Electric
Utility. A Municipal Electric Utility may enter into a contract for any such
work or improvement or for the purchase of such equipment without advertising
for bids if the: (a) Price is ten thousand ($10,000.00) dollars or less; (b)
price is twenty thousand ($20,000.00) dollars or less and the Municipal
Electric Utility has a gross annual revenues from retail sales in excess of one
million ($1,000,000.00) dollars; (c) price is thirty thousand ($30,000.00)
dollars or less and the Municipal Electric Utility has gross annual revenues
from retail sales in excess of five million ($5,000,000.00) dollars; or (d)
price is forty thousand ($40,000.00) dollars or less and the Municipal Electric
Utility has gross annual revenues from retail sales in excess of ten million
($10,000,000.00) dollars. In advertising for bids for any such work, or for the
purchase of such equipment, the Governing Body may cause the amount of such
estimate to be published therewith.
   Such advertisement shall be published once each week for three (3)
consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation
in the Municipality, or by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of
three (3) public places in the Municipality;provided, that in case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need
calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of, or serious
injury or damage to life, health, or property, or war, estimates of costs and
advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance when adopted by a
three- fourths (3/4) vote of the Governing Body.
   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Governing
Body receives fewer than two (2) bids on a contract for services, material, or
labor, or if the bids received by the Governing Body contain a price which
exceeds the estimated cost of the project, the Governing Body shall have the
authority to negotiate a contract for services, material, or labor in an
attempt to complete the proposed project at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Governing Body, or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the purchasing Municipality, the
Governing Body or Board of Public Works, may authorize the manufacture and
assemblage of such materials and may thereafter approve the estimated cost
expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
   The Municipal bidding procedure shall be waived when materials or equipment
are purchased at the same price and from the same seller as materials or
equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to the State bidding
procedure. (Ref. 17-568.01, 17-613 RS Neb.)
§ 1-815   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
The Governing Body shall cause an audit of the Municipal accounts to be made by
a qualified accountant as expeditiously as possible following the close of the
fiscal year. Such audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the
discretion of the Governing Body. The said audit shall be completed, and the
annual audit report made not later than six (6) months after the close of the
fiscal year. The accountant making the audit shall submit not less than three
(3) copies of the audit report to the Governing Body. All public utilities or
other enterprises which substantially generate their own revenue shall be
audited separately, except in Villages having a population of less than eight
hundred (800), and the results of such audits shall appear separately in the
annual audit report, and such audits shall be on an accrual basis and shall
contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted accounting
principles. The audit report shall set forth the financial position and results
of financial operations for each fund or group of accounts of the Municipality
as well as an opinion by the accountant with respect to the financial
statements. Two (2) copies of the annual audit report shall be filed with the
Municipal Clerk, and shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal
Clerk's office, and will at all times thereafter, be open for public
inspection. One (1) copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public
Accounts;provided, that all Villages may file an unaudited statement of cash
receipts and disbursements annually in lieu of an annual audit. Such unaudited
statement shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts in a form
prescribed by him. The unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements
shall become a part of the public records of the Municipal Clerk and shall at
all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection. Every Governing
Body that is required herein to submit to an audit of its accounts shall
provide and file with the Municipal Clerk, not later than August 1 of each
year, financial statements showing its actual and budgeted figures for the most
recently completed fiscal year. (Ref. 19-2901 thru 19-2909, 23-934 RS Neb.)
§ 1-816   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; CLAIMS.
All claims against the Municipality shall be presented to the Governing Body in
writing with a full account of the items, and no claim or demand shall be
audited or allowed unless presented as provided for in this Section. No costs
shall be recovered against the Municipality in any action brought against it
for an unliquidated claim which has not been presented to the Governing Body to
be audited, nor upon claims allowed in part, unless the recovery shall be for a
greater sum than the amount allowed, with the interest due. No order, or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of eighty-five (85%) per cent of the current
levy for the purpose for which it is drawn unless there shall be sufficient
money in the Municipal Treasury for the appropriate fund against which it is to
be drawn;provided, that in the event there exists obligated funds from the
Federal and/or State government for the general purpose of such warrant, then
such warrant may be drawn in excess of eighty-five (85%) per cent, but not more
than one hundred (100%) per cent of the current levy for the purpose for which
said warrant is drawn. (Ref. 17-714, 17-715 RS Neb.)
§ 1-817   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; WARRANTS.
All warrants drawn upon the Municipal Treasury must be signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the Municipal Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
warrant is chargeable, the person to whom it is payable, and the purpose of the
expenditure. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon warrants so drawn. Each
warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for
the fund upon which it is drawn, and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Ref. 17-711 RS Neb.)
§ 1-818   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
All money received on special tax assessments shall be held by the Municipal
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no other
purpose unless to reimburse the Municipality for money expended for any such
improvement. (Ref. 17-710 RS Neb.)
§ 1-819   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SINKING FUNDS.
The Governing Body, subject to the limitations set forth herein, shall have the
power to levy a tax not to exceed that prescribed by State law upon the
assessed value of all taxable property within the Municipality for a term not
to exceed that prescribed by State law in addition to the amount of tax which
may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget statement of the
Municipality, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, or repair of the approved uses
as authorized by State law. To initiate the said sinking fund, the Governing
Body shall declare its purpose by resolution to submit to the qualified
electors of the Municipality the proposition to provide the improvement at the
next general Municipal election. The resolution shall set forth the
improvement, the estimated cost, the amount of the annual levy, the number of
years required to provide the required revenue, the name of the sinking fund
proposed, and the proposition as it will appear on the ballot. Notice of the
said proposition shall be published in its entirety three (3) times on
successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the Municipality. The sinking fund may be established after the
election if a majority, or more of the legal votes were in favor of the
establishment of the fund. The Governing Body may then proceed to establish the
said fund in conformity with the provisions of the proposition, and applicable
State law. The funds received by the Municipal Treasurer shall, as they
accumulate, be immediately invested with the written approval of the Governing
Body in the manner provided by State law. No sinking fund so established shall
be used for any purpose or purposes contrary to the purpose as it appeared on
the ballot unless the Governing Body is authorized to do so by sixty (60%) per
cent of the qualified electors of the Municipality voting at a general election
favoring such a change in the use of the sinking fund. (Ref. 19-1301 through
19-1304, 77-2337, 77-2339 RS Neb.)
§ 1-820   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; DEPOSIT OFFUNDS.
   The Governing Body, at its first (1st) meeting in each fiscal year, shall
designate one (1) or more banks of approved and responsible standing in which
the Municipal Treasurer shall keep at all times all money held by him;provided,
if more than one (1) bank in the Municipality meets the requirements for
approved banks as herein defined, the said funds shall be deposited in each of
them, and the Municipal Treasurer shall not give a preference to any one (1) or
more of them in the money he shall deposit. A bond shall be required from all
banks so selected in a penal sum which equals the maximum amount on deposit at
any time less the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
or a pledge of sufficient assets of the bank to secure the payment of all such
deposits. (Ref. 17-607, 77-2362 through 77-2364 RS Neb.)
§ 1-821   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Municipal
Treasurer to invest surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the Municipality, and other approved bonds and obligations as
provided by law. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to
the fund out of which the said bonds or warrants were purchased. (Ref. 17-608,
17-609, 21-1316.01, 77-2341 RS Neb.)
§ 1-822   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; BOND ISSUES.
   The Governing Body may, after meeting all the requirements of State law,
issue bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by State law. The Governing Body shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on such bonds, and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by State law.
(Ref. 10-201 through 10-411, 10-601 through 10-614, 12-1001, 17-529.01, 17-
529.08, 17-534, 17-905, 17-908, 17-911, 17-939, 17-958, 17-968, 18-1801 through
18-1805, 23-343.13, 39-836 RS Neb.)
§ 1-823   FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SALES AND USE TAX.
   (1)   The voters of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska at an election conducted
on May 9, 2000 approved the imposition of a sales and use tax of one percent
(1%) and therefore the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, through its Governing Body,
and pursuant to the provision of Nebraska statutes, shall impose a sales and
use tax of one percent (1%) upon the same transactions within the City of St.
Paul on which the State of Nebraska is authorized to impose a tax, for a
fifteen (15) year period ending September 30, 2015 to fund the Economic
Development Program (to receive $100,000.00 each year) and further the City of
St. Paul, Nebraska shall increase its budgeted restricted funds for fiscal year
2000-2001 by approximately $150,000.00 which is a twenty-two percent (22%)
increase over the current year's restricted funds according to the 1999-2000
adopted budget with the balance of any remaining sales and use tax funds to be
used for all lawful municipal purposes, including, but not limited to community
improvement projects.
   (2)   The administration of all sales and use taxes adopted shall be
conducted according to Nebraska law and statutes as may be from time to time
amended and further by such rules and regulations as set forth by the Nebraska
Tax Commissioner who will prescribe forms and adopt and promulgate the rules
and regulations in conformity with the act for the making of returns and for
the ascertainment, assessment, and collection of taxes imposed in the City. The
City of St. Paul Nebraska shall furnish a certified copy of the adopting
ordinance to the Tax Commissioner in accordance with such rules and regulations
as are adopted and the effective date of this section for purposes of
collection of the tax shall be the first day of the next calendar quarter
following receipt by the Tax Commissioner of the certified copy of the
ordinance if the certified copy of the adopted ordinance is received sixty (60)
days prior to the start of the next calendar quarter.
   (3)   The City of St. Paul shall not appropriate from funds derived directly
from local sources of revenue for all approved economic development programs,
in each year during which such programs are in existence, an amount in excess
of four-tenths of one percent of the taxable valuation of the City in the year
in which the funds are collected and further the City shall not appropriate
from funds derived directly from local sources of revenue an amount for an
economic development program in excess of the total amount approved by the
voters at the election held on May 9, 2000 in which the imposition of this tax
was submitted and approved.
   (4)   The restrictions on the appropriation of funds from local sources of
revenue as set out above shall apply only to the appropriation of funds derived
directly from local sources of revenue. Sales tax collections in excess of the
amount which may be appropriated as a result of the restrictions set out in
such subsections shall be deposited in the City's economic development fund and
invested as provided in section 18-2718 RS Neb. Any funds in the City's
economic development fund not otherwise restricted from appropriation by reason
on the City's ordinance governing the economic development program or
provisions of Nebraska law may be appropriated and spent for the purposes of
the economic development program in any amount and at any time at the
discretion of the Governing Body of the City subject only to section 18-2716 RS
Neb.
   (5)   The restrictions on the appropriation of funds from local sources of
revenue shall not apply to the reappropriation of funds which were appropriated
but not expended during previous fiscal years.
   (6)   The administration of the sales and use tax imposed by this section,
the making of returns for the ascertainment and assessment, the provisions for
tax claims and remedies, the laws governing consummation of sales, penalties
and collection, and for the disposition and distribution of the taxes so
imposed and collected shall be as provided by Nebraska Law and Statutes as may
be from time to time amended and in accordance with the rules and regulations
of the Nebraska Tax Commissioner. (Ord. No. 754, 6/19/00)
Article 9. Compensation
§ 1-901   COMPENSATION; MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS.
The Compensation of any elective official of the Municipality shall not be
increased or diminished during the term for which he shall have been elected
except when there has been a merger of offices;provided, the compensation of
the members of the Governing Body, a board, or commission may be increased or
diminished at the beginning of the full term of any member whether or not the
terms of one or more members commence and end at different times. No elected
official may be rehired at a greater salary if he resigns and desires to be
rehired during the unexpired term of office. He may be rehired after the term
of office during which he resigned at a greater salary. All salaries shall be
set by ordinance of the Governing Body and will be available for public
inspection at the office of the Municipal Clerk. (Ref. 17-108.02, 17-612 RS
Neb.)
§ 1-902   COMPENSATION; CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
For purposes of this Section officer shall mean (a) any member of any Board or
Commission of the Municipality, (b) any Appointed Official if such Municipal
Official (i) serves on a Board or Commission which spends and administers its
own funds and (ii) is dealing with a contract made by such Board or Commission,
or (c) any elected Municipal Official. Unless specified otherwise, volunteer
firefighters and ambulance drivers shall not be considered officers for
purposes of this Section, with respect to their duties as firefighters and
ambulance drivers.
   No officer of the Municipality shall be permitted to benefit from any
contract to which the Municipality is a party. The existence of such an
interest in any contract renders the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment thereof with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An action
to have a contract declared void under this Section may be brought by the
Municipality or by any resident thereof and must be brought within one (1) year
after the contract is signed or assigned. Any such decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the Municipality has benefited thereby. The prohibition in this Section shall
apply only when the officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child (a) has an
ownership interest of five (5%) per cent or more in any business involved in
the contract or (b) will receive a direct pecuniary fee or commission as a
result of the contract;provided however, if such officer (a) is an employee of
the business involved in the contract and (b) has no ownership interest or will
not receive a pecuniary fee such officer shall not be deemed to have an
interest within the meaning of this Section.
   The provisions of this Section shall not apply if the interested officer:
A.   Makes a declaration on the record to the Governmental Body responsible for
approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her interest,
prior to official consideration of the contract;
B.   Does not vote on the matter of granting the contract, except that if the
number of members of the Board declaring an interest in the contract would
prevent the Board, with all members present, from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
C.   Does not act for the Municipality as to inspection or performance under
the contract in which he or she has an interest.
   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any Municipality by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract under the provisions of this
Section. The ownership of less than five (5%) per cent of the outstanding
shares of a corporation shall not constitute an interest within the meaning of
this Section. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A thru C above, if
an officer's parent, spouse or child is an employee of the Municipality, the
officer may vote on all issues of the contract which are generally
applicable to all employees or all employees within a classification and do not
single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for special action. If an
officer has the power to employ personnel and he or she hires his or her
parent, spouse, or child, such officer shall disclose the hiring pursuant to
subsections 1 thru 5 below, except that if the parent, spouse, or child is
already employed in the position at the time the officer takes office and such
position does not change, no disclosure need be made. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Section, any contract entered into with an interested officer
shall be subject to applicable competitive bidding requirements and shall be
fair and reasonable to the Municipality.
   The Municipal Clerk shall maintain, separately from other records, a ledger
containing the information listed in subsections 1 thru 5 of this Section about
every contract entered into by the Municipality in which an officer has an
interest as specified above for which disclosure is made as provided in
subsections A thru C above. Such information shall be kept in the ledger for
five (5) years from the date of the officer's last day in office and shall
include the:
   1.   Names of the contracting parties;
   2.   Nature of the interest of the officer in question;
   3.   Date that the contract was approved by the Municipality involved;
   4.   Amount of the contract; and
   5.   Basic terms of the contract.
   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided to the
Clerk not later than ten (10) days after the contract has been signed by both
parties. The ledger kept by the Clerk shall be available for public inspection
during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
   An open account established for the benefit of any Municipality or entity
thereof, with a business in which an officer has an interest, shall be deemed a
contract subject to the provisions of this Section. The statement required to
be filed pursuant to this Section shall be filed within ten (10) days after
such account is opened. Thereafter, the Clerk shall maintain a running account
of all amounts purchased
on the open account. Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall
not be subject to the provisions of this Section.
   Any officer who knowingly violates the provisions of Sections 18-301.01 thru
18-301.03 RS Neb., shall be guilty of a Class III misdemeanor. Any officer who
negligently violates Sections 18-301.01 thru 18-301.03 RS Neb. shall be guilty
of a Class V misdemeanor.
   The Municipality may enact ordinances exempting from the provisions of this
Section, contracts involving one hundred ($100.00) dollars or less in which an
officer of such Municipality may have an interest.
   No officer, including volunteer firefighters and ambulance drivers, shall
receive any pay or perquisites from the Municipality other than his or her
salary. The Governing Body shall not pay or appropriate any money or other
valuable thing to pay a person who is not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty, which shall come within the proper scope of the duties
of any officer of the Municipality.
(Ref. 17-611, 18-301.01 thru 18-301.03, 18-305 thru 18-312, 70-624.04 RS Neb.)
§ 1-903   COMPENSATION; ELECTED OFFICERS AND OFFICIALS.
The following elected and appointed officers and officials of the City of St.
Paul shall receive compensation as follows:
   a)    Mayor            $3,600.00 annually
   b)   Council Members      $2,400.00 annually
   c)   City Treasurer      $2,400.00 annually
(Ord. No. 595, 12/1/86) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 625, 12/3/90; 726, 11/16/98;
1017, 12/7/20; 1036, 12/5/22)
Article 10. Intergovernmental Risk Management
§ 1-1001   INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT; AUTHORITY.
The Governing Body and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Section
44-4303 RS Neb., may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and
cooperative action in accordance with Sections 44-4301 through 44-4339 RS Neb.,
to form, become members of, and operate a risk management pool for the purpose
of providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against
losses arising from any of the following:
1.   General liability;
2.   Damage, destruction, or loss of real or personal property, including but
not limited to, loss of use or occupancy, and loss of income or extra expense
resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
3.   Errors and omissions liability; and
4.   Workers' compensation liability.
(Ref. 44-4301 thru 44-4339 RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 599, 9/8/87)
Article 11. Penal Provision
§ 1-1101   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
Chapter 2
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
Article 1. Commissions and Boards
§ 2-101    LIBRARY BOARD.
The Library Board shall be appointed. The nominated members must receive a
majority vote of the Governing Body. The Board shall consist of five (5)
members who shall be residents of the Municipality. The members of the Library
Board shall serve a four (4) year term of office as specified by Nebraska
Statutes. The Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in
the discretion of the Governing Body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution
of the Governing Body, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their
duties. At the time of the Board's first (1st) meeting in December of each
year, the Board shall organize by selecting from their number a chairman and
secretary. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with the Municipal
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing
Body may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the chairman,
or any three (3) members of the Board. The Library Board shall have the
authority to appoint a librarian and all other employees. It shall be the duty
of the Board to have general charge of the Municipal Library and to establish
appropriate rules and regulations for the management, operation, and use of the
same. The Board shall have supervisory authority over all employees of the
library including the librarian. All actions of the Board shall be subject to
the review and supervision of the Governing Body. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the Governing Body may designate from time to time. No member of the Governing
Body shall serve as a member of the Library Board while serving a term of
office as a member of the Governing Body. No member of the Library Board shall
serve in the capacity of both the chairman and secretary of the Board. (Ref.
51-202 RS Neb.)
§ 2-102   PLANNING COMMISSION.
The Governing Body shall appoint the Planning Commission which shall consist of
five (5) members who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the Municipality and who shall be residents of
the Municipality; however two (2) of such members may be residents of the area
over which the Municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning
and subdivision regulations. The members of the Commission shall serve a three
(3) year term of office unless reappointed. The Commission shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the Governing Body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body, and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. At the time of the Commission's
first (1st) meeting in December of each year, the Commission shall organize by
selecting from its membership a chairman and secretary. It shall be the duty of
the secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings
and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for
public inspection at any reasonable time. The Planning Commission shall be
funded by the Governing Body from time to time out of the General Fund. A
majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of doing
business. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the chairman, or any
three (3) members of the Commission. It shall be the duty of the Commission to
make and adopt plans for the physical development of the Municipality,
including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission's judgment,
bear relation to the planning of the Municipality. All actions by the
Commission shall be subject to the review and supervision of the Governing
Body. The Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and
performing such other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the Governing Body, or other Municipal official, except
where otherwise specifically provided, shall serve as a member of the Planning
Commission while serving any other term of office. No member of the Planning
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the chairman and secretary of
the Commission. (Ref. 18-1302 through 18-1306 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
657, 1/17/94)
§ 2-103   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
The Howard County Board of Adjustment shall serve as the Board of Adjustment
for the Municipality of St. Paul, Nebraska. (Ref. 84-155 RS Neb.)
§ 2-104   BOARD OF HEALTH.
The Governing Body shall appoint a Board of Health which shall consist of four
(4) members. The members of the Board shall include the Mayor, who shall serve
as chairman; the Police Chief, who shall serve as secretary and quarantine
officer; a physician who shall serve as the medical advisor; and the President
of the City Council. The members of the Board shall serve, without
compensation, a one (1) year term of office, unless reappointed, and shall
reorganize at the first (1st) meeting in December of each year. It shall be the
duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all
meetings and to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The Board of Health
shall be funded by the Governing Body from time to time out of the General
Fund. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
doing business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing Body may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the chairman, or any
two (2) members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to enact rules
and regulations which shall have the full force and effect of law, to safeguard
the health of the residents of the Municipality. Included in the duties of the
Board shall be to enforce the said rules and regulations, and to provide fines
and punishments for any violations thereof. It may regulate, suppress, and
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and shall actively enforce all laws of the
State of Nebraska and ordinances of the Municipality relating to matters of
sanitation which affect the health and safety of the people. The Board shall
regularly inspect such premises and businesses as the Governing Body may
direct. All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the Governing Body may, from time to time,
designate. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than one (1) Board
of Health position. (Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 2-105   TREE BOARD; TREES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      COMMUNITY FOREST. All street and park trees as a total resource.
      COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGER.The official representative of the Tree Board as
designated and appointed by the Board, and, as such, is responsible for
administration of the community forestry program.
      COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROGRAM.Refers to the policies and procedures set
forth by the Tree Board for the accomplishment of the rights and
responsibilities designated to the Tree Board and/or its representatives in
this section, as may be amended from time to time.
      PARK TREES.Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the City, or to which the
public has tree access as a park.
      STREET TREES.Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between the property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or
ways within the City.
   (B)   Creation and establishment of a City Tree Board. There is hereby
created and established a City Tree Board for the City of St. Paul, Nebraska,
which shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and residents of this City,
who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Term of office. The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by
the Mayor shall be three (3) years except that the term of two (2) of the
members appointed to the first board shall be for only one (1) year and the
term of two (2) members of the first board shall be for (2) two years. In the
event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, a successor
shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term. Upon the expiration
of the term of any Board member, the member may, at the sole discretion of the
Mayor, be reappointed for one (1) additional three (3)-year term. In no event
shall any member serve more than two (2) consecutive terms of any length.
   (D)   Compensation. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (E)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
Tree Board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually,
and administer a written plan for the care, replacement, maintenance, and
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other
public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the City Council and upon
their acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive City
Tree Plan for the City of St. Paul, Nebraska. The Tree Board, when requested by
the City Council, shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and
recommend upon any special matter or question coming within scope of its work.
   (F)   Operation. The Tree Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members then appointed and serving shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business. The Tree Board shall not conduct any business without a quorum
present.
   (G)   Street tree species to be planted. The Tree Board shall maintain a
list of recommended trees and spacing for planting in public areas. This list
shall be available to residents of the City upon request to aid in the
selection of trees for private properties. The list of recommended trees and
spacing shall be updated periodically to reflect new developments or species
that will affect the population of the community forest.
   (H)   Spacing and distances. Street trees may be planted no closer together
than the recommended spacings set forth in the list of recommended trees and
spacing described in division (G) above, except in special plantings approved
by the Tree Board.
   (I)   Distances and clearances for planting.
      (1)   Street trees may be planted in the tree lawn where there is more
than six (6) feet between the edge of the sidewalk and the curb of the street,
street trees shall be planted no closer than three (3) feet from a sidewalk or
street.
      (2)   The planting of street trees in relation to all street corners and/
or street intersections shall conform to the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance of the City of St. Paul, as may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   No street tree shall be planted closer than ten (10) feet from any
fireplug.
      (4)   Special permission must be obtained from the Tree Board or the
Commnnity Forest Manager when planting street trees within ten (10) feet of any
point on a line on the ground immediately below any overhead utility wire, or
within five (5) lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line, or other utility.
   (J)   Public tree care.
      (1)   The City shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within right-of-way or bounds of all streets, alleys,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure the public
safety or to preserve or enhance the beauty of such public grounds.
      (2)   The Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree
or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or
other public improvements, or is seriously affected with any injurious insect
or disease.
      (3)   The abutting property owners shall have the right to perform normal
tree care on all street trees.
   (K)   Permits required. No person shall plant a street tree or any other
tree in the public right-of-way without first obtaining written permission from
the Utilities Superintendent for the City of St. Paul. There will be no fee for
such permission.
   (L)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any
person, firm, or City department to top any street tree, park tree, or other
tree on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs
to stubs large than three (3) inches in diameter within the tree's crown to
such a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility
wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may
be exempted from this section at the determination of the Tree Board or the
Community Forest Manager.
   (M)   Clearance over streets and walkways. Clearance over streets and
walkways shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owner. A
clearance of eight (8) feet must be maintained over walkways and a clearance of
twelve (12) feet must be maintained over streets. Property owners are
responsible for trees on their own property as well as trees on the public way
that abuts their property.
   (N)   Dead or diseased tree removal. Upon the recommendation of the Tree
Board, the City may remove or cause to be removed any dead or diseased tree
within the City limits. DISEASED TREES are defined as those trees that may
constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which
represent a potential threat to other trees within the City. The Tree Board
will notify in writing the owners of such trees. If a dead or diseased tree is
located in the public way, the Tree Board will notify in writing the owners of
any property abutting the public way where the dead or diseased tree is
located. Property owners are responsible for the removal of dead or diseased
trees on their own property and for the removal of dead or diseased trees on
the public way that abuts their property. Removal shall be accomplished within
sixty (60) days of notification. In the event of failure to remove such trees
by the owner, the City shall have the authority to remove such trees and assess
the cost of removal on the responsible owners' property as a special
assessment.
   (O)   Removal of stumps. All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground.
   (P)   Interference with the Tree Board. It shall be unlawful for any person
to prevent, delay or interfere with the Tree Board or any of its
representatives or agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any trees within the
community forest, as authorized in this section.
   (Q)   Arborist license and bond.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the
business or occupation of pruning, treating or removing any street tree, park
tree or other privately owned tree without first registering with the City
Clerk.
      (2)   Each registrant shall file evidence of possession of liability
insurance and/or other acceptable surety bond and meet other requirements set
by the Tree Board. Registrations shall be required to provide continuing proof
of insurance and/or bond on an annual basis as directed by the City Clerk.
   (R)   Review by City Council. The City Council shall have the right to
review the conduct, acts and decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal
from any ruling or order of the Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the
matter and make final decision.
   (S)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be,
upon conviction or a plea of guilty, be subject to a waiverable fine not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. No. 627, 2/4/91) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 980, 5/15/17; 983, 8/21/17)
§ 2-106   BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
There is hereby established a Board of Zoning Adjustment. The word "Board" when
used in this section shall be construed to mean the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall consist of five (5) regular members, plus
one (1) additional member designed as an alternate who shall attend and serve
only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason, each
to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearings (Section
19-908 RS Neb.). The Mayor and City Council of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska
shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. The Mayor shall
appoint each member who shall be approved by the City Council of the City of
St. Paul, Nebraska.
   Meeting of such Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be held in conformity with
the rules set out by the Zoning Ordinance of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska or
by applicable state laws of the State of Nebraska.
   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records
of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record. The
Board shall adopt from time to time such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary, to carry the appropriate provisions of the Zoning Ordinance into
effect and all its resolutions and orders shall be in accordance with the
Zoning Ordinance of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska. (Ord. No. 614, 9/25/89)
Article 2. Housing Authority
§ 2-201   HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
The Governing Body shall appoint five (5) persons who shall constitute the
Housing Authority and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One (1)
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a five
(5) year term of office or until his successor is duly appointed; provided,
that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The Governing Body
may appoint one (1) of its members to serve as one of the five (5) members of
such Housing Authority for such term as the Governing Body may determine. No
person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area
of operation of that Housing Authority. A certificate of the appointment or
reappointment of any Commissioner shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk and
such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of such
Commissioner. A Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his services,
but he shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses,
incurred in discharge of his duties. A majority of Commissioners shall
constitute a quorum of the Authority for the purpose of conducting its
business, exercising its powers, and for all other purposes. Action may be
taken by the Authority upon the vote of the majority of the Commissioners
present unless in any case the bylaws of the Authority shall require a larger
number. The Commissioners shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among
the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an executive director who
shall serve as ex officio secretary of the Authority. The Authority may also
employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law officer of the
Municipality, for such services as it may require. It may employ technical
experts and such other officers, agents, and employees as it may require and
shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations, and terms of
office. The Authority may delegate such other powers and duties to its agents
or employees as it may deem proper. During his tenure, and for one (1) year
thereafter, no commissioner, officer, or employee of the Municipal Housing
Authority shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any
project or in any property included or planned to be included in any project,
or in any contract or proposed contract relating to any housing project. If any
such commissioner, officer, or employee involuntarily acquires any such
interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to
appointment or employment as commissioner, officer, or employee, he shall
immediately disclose his interest in writing to the Authority, and such
disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the Authority, and he shall not
participate in any action by the Authority relating to the property or contract
in which he has any such interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to
the acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in
connection with any housing project, or to the execution of agreements by
banking institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a
project or to act as trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services,
the rates for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency. The Mayor
may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or misconduct in office in the
manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send a notice of removal to such
Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement containing the charges
against him. Unless within ten (10) days from the receipt of such notice, such
Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a hearing before the Governing
Body, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed from office. If a request for
a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the Governing Body of the Municipality shall
hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall have the right to appear in
person or by counsel and the Governing Body shall determine whether the removal
shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner
shall continue to hold his position.
   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its activities
and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to the
Governing Body on all such information. (Ref. 71-1524 through 71-1526, 71-1552
RS Neb.)
§ 2-202   HOUSING AUTHORITY; OWNERSHIP.
The Municipal Housing Authority is owned by the Municipality and operated
through the Housing Authority Commission. The Housing Authority shall
constitute a body corporate and politic, and shall have all the powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions
of the Nebraska Housing Authority Law. (Ref. 71-1529 RS Neb.)
§ 2-203   HOUSING AUTHORITY; DEFINITIONS.
Except as otherwise specifically provided, the definitions and terms set out in
the Nebraska Statutes relating to Housing Authorities under the Nebraska
Housing Authority Law are hereby adopted by reference as they now exist or may
hereafter be amended. (Ref. 71-1522 RS Neb.)
§ 2-204   HOUSING AUTHORITY; OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT.
The Authority shall at all times observe the following duties with respect to
rentals and tenant selection:
   1.   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to persons of
low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low income, and displaced
persons in need.
   2.   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy of
tenants on the basis of race, sex, marital status, religion, color, creed,
national origin, or ancestry.
   3.   The Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in any dwelling
in the housing project if the persons who occupy the dwelling have an aggregate
annual income which equals or exceeds the amount which the Authority has
conclusively determined to be sufficient to enable one to secure, safe,
sanitary, and uncongested dwelling accommodations within the area served by the
Authority and to provide an adequate standard of living.
   4.   The Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling consisting of a
number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and sanitary
accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
   5.   The Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents after
taking into consideration:
      a.   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps, and other
factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person.
      b.   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
   6.   The Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person or persons in
need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or persons remain
as a tenant or tenants of the Authority for more than a period of six (6)
months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income, elderly, or
handicapped persons of low income.
   7.   All persons of low income, elderly, or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
Article and the Authority may establish rules and regulations consistent with
the purposes of this Article concerning eligibility and occupancy of the
housing project or other such shelter.
   8.   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Authority to inquire
into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal, and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
   9.   The Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with federal and state laws and regulations and the purposes of this
Article concerning the termination of tenancy. Any tenant so terminated shall
be sent a written notice of termination setting out the reasons for such
termination and any tenant served with a notice shall be given the opportunity
to contest the termination in an appropriate hearing, except that tenants who
have created or maintained a threat constituting a serious and clear danger to
the health or safety of other tenants or Authority employees need not be given
such a hearing by the Authority. Such notice may provide that if the tenant
fails to pay his or her rent or comply with any covenant or condition of his or
her lease, or the rules and regulations of such Authority, or cure a violation
or default thereof, as the case may be, as specified in such notice, or follow
the procedure for a hearing as set forth in the notice, all within the time or
times set forth in such notice, the tenancy shall then be automatically
terminated and no other notice or notices need be given of such termination or
the intent to terminate the tenancy, and upon such termination, and without any
notice other than as provided for in this section, the Authority may file suit
against any tenant for recovery of possession of the premises and may recover
the same as provided by law.
   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with the purposes of this Article concerning personal property of
tenants and other persons located in projects of the Authority, and if such
personal property is not removed from a dwelling unit at the time of the
termination of the lease, at the time of vacation or abandonment of the
dwelling unit, or at the time of the death of any tenant, then the Authority
may remove the same and store such property at the tenant's risk and expense.
In the event that possession of such personal property is not taken by the
tenant or other person authorized by law to take possession within forty-five
(45) days after such termination, vacation, or abandonment, and any storage
removal charges remain unpaid, then the Authority may, at its option, dispose
of the personal property in any manner which the Authority deems fit, except
that any proceeds from the disposal of such personal property shall be paid to
the general fund of the body which created the Authority. No tenant or other
person shall have any cause of action against the Authority for such removal or
disposition of such personal property. (Ref. 71-1536 RS Neb.)
§ 2-205   HOUSING AUTHORITY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Housing Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with the purposes of this Article concerning the priority of
eligible applicants for occupancy. The Authority may give preferential
treatment to applicants who are servicemen or veterans, relatives of servicemen
or veterans, to disabled servicemen or veterans, the elderly or disabled, those
in urgent need of adequate housing or who have no adequate source of income;
provided, that in any such system of priority, displaced persons in need shall
have a priority ahead of all other persons; and provided further, that no
tenant in good standing then in occupancy and qualified for continued occupancy
shall have his tenancy terminated in order to provide dwelling units for
classes or categories of applicants as the Authority may establish. (Ref. 71-
1547 RS Neb.)
§ 2-206   HOUSING AUTHORITY; REPORTS.
The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its activities and
of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an annual report at the
second (2nd) regular meeting in January of each year to the Governing Body.
Such report shall include all mortgages and other interests in real property
held by the Housing Authority, including options to purchase and land sale
contracts; a listing of all bond issues and their essential terms and
obligations; and all other financial obligations of the Housing Authority over
fifty thousand ($50,000.00) dollars. Such reports shall be considered public
records. If there has been no change from the last report in the status of any
of the items reported pursuant to this section, the Housing Authority may file
a statement to that effect in lieu of the report. (Ref. 71-1552 RS Neb.)
Article 3. Penal Provision
§ 2-301   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
Chapter 3
DEPARTMENTS
Article 1. Water Department
§ 3-101   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through the
Utilities Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Water Department
may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State
law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within
the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax
shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his office. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and review of the
Governing Body. The Governing Body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of the rates in the office
of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 17-
531, 17-534, 19-1305 RS Neb.)
§ 3-102   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Article. Where no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The term "Air gap separation means the unobstructed
vertical distance through the free atmosphere between the lowest opening from
any pipe or faucet supply water to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device
and the over-flow level rim of the receptacle.
   APPROVED. The term "Approved" means that a backflow prevention device or
method has been accepted by the water purveyor as suitable for the proposed
use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. The term "Auxiliary water system" means any water
system on or available to the premises other than the public water system and
includes the water supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include
water from another purveyor's public water system; or waters from a source such
as wells, lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. They may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The term "Backflow" means the flow of water or other liquids,
mixtures, or substances into the distributing pipes of a potable water supply
from any source other than the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. The term "Backflow prevention device" means any
device method, or type of construction intended to prevent backflow into a
potable water system.
   CONSUMER. The term "Consumer" means the owner or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. The term "Consumer's water system" means any water
system, located on the consumer's premises, supplied by or in any manner
connected to a public water system. A household plumbing system is considered
to be a consumer's water system.
   CONTAMINATION. The term "Contamination" means an impairment of the quality
of the water by sewage of process fluids or waste to a degree which could
create an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or through
spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS CONNECTION. The term "Cross connection" means any arrangement whereby
backflow can occur.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The term "Degree of hazard" is a term derived from an
evaluation of the potential risk to health and the adverse effect upon the
potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. The term "Double check valve assembly" means an
assembly composed of two (2) single, independently acting, check valves
including tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   HEALTH HAZARD. The term "Health hazard" means any condition, device, or
practice in a water system or its operation that creates, or may create, a
danger to the health and well-being of users. The word "severe" as used to
qualify "health hazard" means a hazard to the health of the user that could
reasonably be expected to result in significant morbidity or death.
   INTERCHANGEABLE CONNECTION. The term "Interchangeable connection" means an
arrangement or device that will allow alternate but not simultaneous use of two
(2) sources of water.
   MAIN. The term "main" is hereby defined to be any pipe other than a supply
or service pipe that is used for the purpose of carrying water to, and
dispersing the same in the Municipality.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. The term "Non-potable water" means water not safe for
drinking, personal, or culinary use.
   PERSON. The term "Person" means the state, any political subdivision, public
or private corporation, individual, partnership, or other legal entity.
   POLLUTION. The term "Pollution" means the presence in water of any foreign
substance that tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a hazard or
impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably
affect such waters for domestic use.
   POLLUTIONAL HAZARD. The term "Pollutional Hazard" means a condition through
which an aesthetically objectionable or degrading material not dangerous to
health may enter the public water system or a potable consumer's water system.
   POTABLE WATER. The term "Potable water" means water which is satisfactory
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the
Department of Health.
   PROCESS FLUIDS. The term "Process fluids" means any fluid or solution which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, pollutional, or system
hazard if introduced into the public or a potable consumer's water system. This
includes, but is not limited to:
      a.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      b.   Process waters;
      c.   Used waters originating from the public water system which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      d.   Cooling waters;
      e.   Contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes, streams, or
irrigation systems;
      f.   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      g.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for fire fighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. The term "Public water system means any publicly or
privately owned potable water system.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPAL BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. The term "Reduced
pressure principal backflow prevention device" means a device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow,
the pressure between these two (2) checks shall be less than the supply
pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the check valves at less than the supply pressure. The unit must
include tightly closing shut off valves located at each end of the device, and
each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SEPARATE PREMISE. The term "separate premise" is hereby defined to be more
than one (1) consumer procuring water from the same service or supply pipe. The
second (2nd) premise may be a separate dwelling, apartment, building, or
structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The term "Service connection" means the terminal end of
a service line from the public water system. If a meter is installed at the end
of the service, then the service connection means the downstream end of the
meter.
   SERVICE PIPE. The term "service pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe
extending from the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock at or near the lot line to
and beyond the property line of the consumer to the location on the premise
where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. The term "supply pipe" is hereby defined to be any pipe tapped
into a main and extending from there to a point at or near the lot line of the
consumer's premise where the shut-off, stop box, or curb cock is located.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. The term "System hazard" means a condition posing an actual
or potential threat of damage to the physical properties of the public water
system or a potable consumer's water system.
   USED WATER. The term "Used water" means any water supplied by a water
purveyor from a public water system to a consumer's water system after it has
passed through the service connection and is no longer under the control of the
water purveyor.
   UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The term "Utilities Superintendent" means the
Utilities Superintendent of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The term "Water Purveyor" means the owner of operator of a
public water system, namely, the City of St. Paul, Nebraska.
§ 3-103   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; CONSUMER'S APPLICATION.
Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may require any
applicant to make a service deposit in the amount equal to the Installation
Expenses; such deposit to be based upon the material and labor cost of
installing the supply pipe and water meter. Water may not be supplied to any
house or private service pipe except upon the order of the Superintendent.
§ 3-104   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the Governing Body; provided,
the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe, and supply pipe shall be paid by
the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the Municipality to
provide water service to non-residents. (Ref.19-2701 RS Neb.)
§ 3-105   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER CONTRACT.
The Municipality through its Water Department, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The Municipality may furnish
water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a
street or alley in which a Municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter be
laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside
the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when, according to law, the
Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations, and water rates
hereinafter named in this Article, shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served. Without further
formality, the making of application on the part of any applicant or the use or
consumption of water service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of
water service to said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer
and the Municipality, to which said contract both parties are bound. If the
consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable
rules and regulations that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the
Utilities Superintendent or his agent, may cut off or disconnect the water
service from the building or premise or place of such violation. No further
connection for water service to said building, premise, or place shall again be
made save or except by order of said Superintendent or his agent.
§ 3-106   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
In making excavations in streets, alleys, or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones, and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley, or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys, and sidewalks shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in any street, alley, or sidewalk is left open or unfinished for a
period of twenty-four (24) hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall
have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall
be charged to the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two
(2) inspections by the Utilities Superintendent. The first (1st) inspection
shall be made when connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes
are covered. The second (2nd) inspection shall be made after the dirt work is
completed and the service is restored. It is the customer's responsibility to
notify the Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection.
All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications prescribed for such
installation by the Utilities Superintendent; provided that the said rules,
regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
Governing Body. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-107   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION EXPENSES.
The Municipality shall install all water services to the property. The customer
shall pay the actual cost of material together with a reasonable labor cost.
The customer shall at his own expense bring water service from the stop box and
upon his own premise. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-108   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; REPAIRS.
Repairs to the service pipe shall be made by and at the expense of the
customer. All other repairs to the property of the Water Department, including
the meter, shall be made by the Municipality. All water meters shall be kept in
repair by the Municipality at the expense of the Municipality. When meters are
worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by the Municipality at the expense
of the Municipality; provided, that if the customer permits or allows a water
meter to be damaged, injured, or destroyed through his own recklessness,
carelessness, or neglect so that the meter must be repaired or replaced, the
Utilities Superintendent shall bill and collect from the customer the cost of
such meter repair or replacement in the same manner as water rent is collected.
Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by freezing shall always be
considered negligence on the part of the customer. All meters shall be tested
at the customer's request at the expense of the customer any reasonable number
of times; provided, that if the test shows the water meter to be running two
(2%) per cent or more fast, the expense of such test shall be borne by the
Municipality. The Municipality reserves the right to test any water service
meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair the
Municipality shall always have the right to place a new meter on the customer's
water service fixtures at Municipal expense. Should a consumer's meter fail to
register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during the time the
meter is out of repair on the basis of the quarterly consumption during the
same quarter of the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis for
comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be
reasonably fixed by the Utilities Superintendent.  (Ref. 17-542 RS Neb.)
§ 3-109   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; LIEN.
In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the Municipality for water service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent water rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was used. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing
or cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are sixty (60) days or more delinquent in the
payment of water rent. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent on
the first (1st) day of June of each year to report to the Governing Body a list
of all unpaid accounts due for water together with a description of the premise
upon which the same was used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by
the Governing Body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to the County
Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law. (Ref. 17-
538 RS Neb.)
§ 3-110   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; SINGLE PREMISE.
No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to take water
from his premise, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any person
make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection with the
pipe upon the premise for alteration, extension, or attachment without the
written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.It shall further be unlawful
for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any contrivance or
device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the water will not
pass through the meter or while passing through said meter to cause the meter
to register inaccurately. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-111   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; RESTRICTED USE.
The Governing Body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in the
use of water or shut off the water on any premise in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The Municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the Municipality
has no control. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-112   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK FLOW PREVENTION; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   1.   Short Title. These regulations shall hereafter be known, cited and
referred to as "The Backflow Prevention and Cross Connection Control Program."
   2.   Authority. These regulations are hereby adopted and enacted by virtue
of the general police power of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska and Section 17-
121, and amendments thereto, R.R.S. 1943, Statutes of Nebraska, and comprise
requirements, standards and specifications with respect to provisions for the
regulation of the use and installation of backflow prevention and cross
connection devices so as to prevent backflow of contaminants into the water
supply of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska.
   3.   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is:
      A.   To protect the public potable water supply from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the consumer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
potable water system.
      B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
process fluids.
      C.   To provide for the maintenance or a continuing program of cross
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the public and consumer's potable water system.
   4.   Application. These regulations shall apply to all premises served by
the public potable water system of the City.
   5.   Policy. The Utilities Superintendent shall be responsible for
protection of the public potable water system from contamination due to
backflow of contaminants through the water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Utilities Superintendent or his authorized representative, a
backflow prevention device is needed at a certain site he shall give notice to
the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at each
service connection to his premises. The consumer shall immediately install such
approved device or devices at his own expense, and failure, refusal or
inability on the part of the consumer to install such device or devices
immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such device or devices have been installed.
   6.   Water System.
      A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts:
the public potable water system and the consumer's water system.
      B.   The public potable water system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of water up
to the point where the consumer's water system begins.
      C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public
distribution system.
      D.   The public distribution system shall include the network of conduits
used for delivery of water from the source to the consumer's water system.
      E.   The consumer's water system shall include those parts of the
facilities beyond the service connection which are utilized in conveying water
from the public distribution system to points of use.
(Ref. 17-121, 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-113   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK FLOW PREVENTION; WHEN REQUIRED;
CUSTOMER DISCLOSURE.
   1.   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross connection to the public potable or
consumer's water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Utilities
Superintendent.
   2.   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer's water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved.
   3.   Customers shall notify the Water Purveyor when they install any
underground sprinklers or private wells.
§ 3-114   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK FLOW PREVENTION; WHERE REQUIRED.
   1.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises, where in the
judgment of the Utilities Superintendent or his authorized representative,
actual or potential hazards to the public potable water system exist.
   2.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      A.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the water purveyor.
      B. Premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as to
create an actual or potential hazard to the public potable water system. This
shall include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or
waters originating from the public potable water system which are no longer
under the sanitary control of the water purveyor.
      C.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the water purvey or, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements
which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      D.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      E.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or re-established.
      F.   Others specified by the water purveyor.
   3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities unless the water purveyor determines that
no actual or potential hazard to the public potable water system exists.
      A.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes
      B.   Laboratories
      C.   Piers, docks waterfront facilities
      D.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping station or storm water
pumping stations
      E.   Food or beverage processing plants
      F.   Chemical plants
      G.   Metal plating industries
      H.   Petroleum processing or storage plants
      I.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors
      J.   Car washes
      K.   Any consumer's water system where contamination exists
      L.   Others specified by the water purveyor.
   4.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed at any point
of connection between the public potable or consumer's water system and an
auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary supply is accepted as an
additional source by the water purveyor.
(Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-115   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK FLOW PREVENTION; TYPE REQUIRED.
   1.   The type of protection required under Section 3-115-2.-A., B. and C. of
these regulations shall depend on the degree of hazard which exits as follows:
      A.   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
      B.   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
system or health hazard.
      C.   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principal backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
   2.   The type of protection required under Section 3-115-2.-D. of these
regulations shall be an approved air gap separation or an approved
interchangeable connection.
   3.   Where an auxiliary water supply is used as a secondary source of water
for fire protection system, the provisions of Section 3-116-1-B. for an
approved air gap separation or an approved interchangeable connection may not
be required providing:
      A.   At premises where the auxiliary water supply may be contaminated
with substances that could cause a system or health hazard, the public or
consumer's potable water system shall be protected against backflow by
installation of an approved reduced pressure principal backflow prevention
device.
      B.   At all other premises, the public or consumer's potable water system
shall be protected against backflow by installation of either an approved
reduced pressure principal backflow prevention device or an approved double
check valve assembly.
      C.   The public or consumer's potable water system shall be the primary
source of water for the fire protection system.
      D.   The fire protection system shall be normally filled with water from
the public or consumer's potable water system.
      E.   The water in the fire protection system shall be used for fire
protection only with no regular use of water from the fire protection system
downstream from the approved backflow device.
      F.   The water in the fire protection system shall contain no additives.
(Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-116   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK FLOW PREVENTION; MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS.
   1.   Any backflow prevention device required by these rules and regulations
shall be of a model or construction approved by the water purveyor and shall
comply with the following:
      A.   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the
diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the
vessel, but in no case less than one (1") inch.
      B.   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principal
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the water purvey or, and shall
appear on the current "list of approved backflow prevention devices."
      C.   An interchangeable connection to be approved shall be either a swing
type connector or a four-way valve of the lubricated plug type that operates
through a mechanism which unseats the plug, turns it ninety (90o) degrees and
reseats the plug. Four-way valves shall not be used as stop valves but must
have separate stop valves on each pipe connected to the valve. The tell-tale
port on the four-way valve shall have no piping connected and the threads or
flange on this port shall be destroyed so that a connection cannot be made.
   2.   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the water purveyor at
the time of installation and properly maintained shall, except for inspection
and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirement of Subsection
1.-A. of this regulation, providing the water purveyor is assured that they
will satisfactorily protect the public potable water system. Whenever the
existing device is moved from the present location or requires more than
minimum maintenance or when the water purveyor finds that the maintenance of
the device constitutes a hazard to health, the device shall be replaced by a
backflow prevention device meeting the requirements of this Article.
(Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-117   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK FLOW PREVENTION; INSTALLATION.
   1.   Backflow prevention devices required by these rules and regulations
shall be installed at a location and in a manner approved by the water purveyor
and shall be installed by and at the expense of the water consumer. In
addition, any backflow prevention device required by Section 3-115-2.-B. and C.
of these regulations shall be installed at a location and in a manner approved.
   2.   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service line to a
consumer's water system shall be located on the consumer's side of the water
meter as close to the meter as is reasonably practical, and prior to any other
connection.
   3.   Pits or vaults shall be of watertight construction, be so located and
constructed as to prevent flooding and shall be maintained free from standing
water by means of either a sump and pump or a suitable drain. Such sump pump or
drain shall not connect to a sanitary sewer nor permit flooding of the pit or
vault by reverse flow from its point of discharge. An access ladder and
adequate natural or artificial lighting shall be provided to permit maintenance
inspection and testing of the backflow prevention device.
(Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-118   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK FLOW PREVENTION; INSPECTION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   1.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests and overhaul made in accordance with the following schedule
or more often where inspection indicate a need.
      A.   Air separation shall be inspected at time of installation and at
least every twelve (12) months thereafter.
      B.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at time of installation and at least every twelve (12 months
thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and
repaired whenever needed and at least every thirty (30) months.
      C.   Reduced pressure principal backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at time of installation and at least every
twelve (12) months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned and repaired whenever needed and at least every five (5) years.
      D. Interchangeable connections shall be inspected at time of installation
and at least every twelve (12) months thereafter.
   2.   Inspections, tests, and overhaul of backflow prevention devices shall
be made at the expense of the water consumer and shall be performed by the
water purveyor or a certified person to inspect, test and overhaul backflow
prevention devices.
   3.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this Article are found
to be defective, they shall be repaired, or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   4.   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from comprehensive listing that includes a record of purchase
to retirement. This shall include a all tests, inspections and repairs. Records
of inspections, tests, repairs and overhaul shall be submitted to the water
purveyor.
   5.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be by-passed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
water purveyor.
(Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-119   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK FLOW PREVENTION; BOOSTER PUMPS.
   1.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to ten (10) pounds per square inch
gauge or less.
   2.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the water purveyor, at
least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-120   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BACK FLOW PREVENTION; VIOLATIONS.
The water purveyor shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any backflow
prevention device required by these regulations is not installed, tested and
maintained in a manner acceptable to the water purveyor, or if it is found that
the backflow prevention device has been removed or by-passed, or if a low
pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and maintained
in working order.
   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer has
corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with these
regulations and to the satisfaction of the water purveyor. (Ref. 17-537 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-121   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; INSPECTIONS.
The Utilities Superintendent, or his duly authorized agents, shall have free
access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premise and building to,
or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures, and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water or actual or potential cross
connections to the consumer's water system through which contaminants or
pollutants could backflow into the public potable water system.
   On request by the Utilities Superintendent or his authorized representative,
the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices within his
premises.
   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct periodic
surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether there are
actual or potential cross connections to his water system through which
contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable water
system.
   Personnel of the City shall be relieved from personal liability and the City
shall hold harmless personnel when acting in good faith and without malice,
from all personal liability for any damage that may occur to any person or
property as a result of any act required or authorized by this Article on
backflow prevention, or by reason of any act or omission of the Manager in the
discharge of his duties hereunder. Any suit brought carrying out the provisions
of the title may be defended by the City, or the City's insurance carrier, if
any, through final determination of such proceeding. (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 643, 5/4/92)
§ 3-122   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; FIRE HYDRANTS.
All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to be
public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members of
the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief; or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
§ 3-123   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLLUTION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any stream
or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.  (Ref. 17-
536 RS Neb.)
§ 3-124   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
All persons within three hundred fifty (350') feet of a water main shall be
required, upon notice by the Governing Body, to hook-up with the Municipal
Water System within ninety (90) days of availability.  (Ref. 17-539 RS Neb.)
§ 3-125   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to change
from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at the said premise. If the consumer should fail to give
such notice, he shall be charged for all water used on the said premise until
the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref.
17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-126   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; POLICE REPORTS.
It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police to report to the Utilities
Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of the Municipal Code relating to the Water Department. They shall
have the additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
§ 3-127   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; DESTRUC- TION OF PROPERTY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure,
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
§ 3-128   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; RECON- NECTION CHARGE.
Whenever the water shall have been shut off from any premises for any reason
provided by this Article or Article 2 or 4 of this Chapter, the same shall not
be turned on again until payment has been made of all rent due from said
premises, and until the removal of the cause for which said water was shut off,
and until a reconnection fee has been paid to the Clerk by the customer as a
fee for reconnecting the service. The amount of the reconnection fee shall be
that amount as from time to time is set by resolution of the City Council.
(Amended by Ord. No. 830, 3/5/07)
§ 3-129   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; TIME.
All taps or plumbing work done on or to the Municipal water system shall be
done between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
P.M.  (Ref. 17-537 RS Neb.)
§ 3-130   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; BILLS.
All bills for water service shall be due and payable pursuant to the provisions
of Article 4 of this Chapter.
§ 3-131   MUNICIPAL WATER DEPARTMENT; MINIMUM RATES.
All water consumers shall be liable for the following rates provided by this
Article unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
he shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is turned on
again.
   Residential User shall mean any single family residence and any single
family residence in a unit consisting of multiple family residences shall be
considered a residential user so long as the unit has an individual electric
meter. A mobile home used as a residence shall be considered a residential
user. A user who does not meet the definition of residential usershall be
considered a commercial user for purposes of this section.
   Effective July 1, 2018 (July usage to be billed out in August 2018:
   The rate for all water users shall be one dollar and fifty-six cents ($1.56)
per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water per month. In addition to the one
dollar and fifty-six cents ($1.56) per one thousand (1,000) gallon rate, the
following minimum monthly service rate shall apply regardless of water usage:
   A.   When the size of the meter is 5/8 to 1 inch, the minimum monthly rate
shall be forty dollars and forty-three cents ($40.43).
   B.   When the size of the meter is 1-1/4 inches to 1-1/2 inches, the minimum
monthly rate shall be sixty dollars and sixty-four cents ($60.64).
   C.   When the size of the meter is 2 inches, the minimum monthly rate shall
be eighty dollars and fifty cents ($80.50).
   D.   When the size of the meter is 3 inches, the minimum monthly rate shall
be one hundred twenty-one dollars and twenty-eight cents ($121.28).
   E.   When the size of the meter is 4 inches, the minimum monthly rate shall
be one hundred sixty-one dollars and seventy cents ($161.70).
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 643, 5/4/92; 773, 12/10/01; 788, 9/2/03; 826, 10/23/06;
892, 9/7/10; 990, 6/4/18)
§ 3-132   PLUMBING; WELL PERMIT.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dig, drill or construct a
well within the service area of the City water system, without having first
obtained a permit therefor from the City Council. The applications for private
wells shall be submitted in writing, and shall set forth:
   A.   Location of proposed well;
   B.   Intended use of the water;
   C.   Depth of the proposed well;
   D.   Size and kind of casing to be installed;
   E.   Equipment to be used;
   F.   Name and address of well driller.
   G.   For uses other than domestic lawn irrigation, metering equipment at the
owner's expense shall be installed. (Ord. No. 622, 10/1/90) (Amended by Ord.
No. 775, 12/10/01)
§ 3-133   PLUMBING; WELLS; LOCATION AND USAGE.
The well shall be located at least fifty (50) feet from any septic tank; and at
least one hundred (100) feet from any cesspool, privy, seepage pit, or other
subsurface disposal system or other known or suspected source of contamination
or pollution. Any well drilled after the effective date of this regulation
shall be located at least ten (10) feet from any depression that could retain
stagnant water and at least ten (10) feet from a pit. There shall be no sewer
or frost-proof hydrants within ten (10) feet of the well, and any sewer located
from ten (10) to fifty (50) feet of the well shall be constructed after the
effective date of this regulation so that it is watertight when subjected to a
pressure equivalent to a column of water ten (10) feet high. (Ord. No. 622, 10/
1/90) (Amended by Ord. No. 775, 12/10/01)
§ 3-134   PLUMBING; TEMPORARY WELL PERMIT.
The City may grant a temporary well permit where an emergency is determined to
exist for purposes other than lawn irrigation and garden irrigation. In
granting said permit, the City may establish conditions under which said well
is operated, including the purposes therefore, its location, the period of time
during which such well shall be operated, conditions for the closing and
capping of such well, and such safety requirements as the Council may provide,
and such other conditions as may protect the health and welfare of the City.
The application for the temporary well permit shall be accompanied with an
application fee of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars, no part of which shall be
refunded, if denied. (Ord. No. 622, 10/1/90)
§ 3-135   PLUMBING; WELLS; CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
No cross connections shall be allowed from a private well to or from the City
water system. The Utility Superintendent may inspect the owner's premises, when
necessary to determine that no such cross connection or cross connections
exist. If the Utility Superintendent of the City finds that a cross connection
exists, he shall order the use of the private well to be permanently
discontinued. The owner, tenant and lessee shall be liable severally and
jointly for all damages to the City water system and users caused by such cross
connection. (Ord. No. 662, 10/1/90)
§ 3-136   PLUMBING; WELLS, REGISTRATION.
All private water wells located within the service area of the City water
system shall be registered with the City Clerk within sixty (60) days of the
effective date of this regulation. All registration forms shall be in writing
and shall set forth:
   A.   Location of well;
   B.   Use of water from well;
   C.   Depth of well;
   D.   Size and kind of casing installed;
   E.   Equipment to be used, including pumping equipment;
   F.   Type of metering equipment installed.
(Ord. No. 662, 10/1/90) (Amended by Ord. No. 775, 12/10/01)
§ 3-137   PLUMBING; WELLS; SPECIFICATIONS, DISCONTINUANCE BY COUNCIL.
The City Council shall have power and authority to refuse to issue well
drilling permits, if it appears that the plan of drilling and construction is
not sound, or the proposed driller does not have proper equipment, or it
appears that such well may endanger, impair or in any way interfere with the
City water system. (Ord. No. 662, 10/1/90)
§ 3-138   PLUMBING; WELLS; NEBRASKA MINIMUM STANDARDS ADOPTED.
The "Minimum Standards for a Private Water Well in Nebraska," 1972 Edition, are
hereby adopted and such minimum standards including all subsequent editions,
amendments, supplements or appendices thereto are made a part of this Section
as fully as if set forth at length herein. Three (3) copies of said Minimum
Standards shall be placed on file with the City Clerk, and any and all
subsequent additions, amendments or supplements or appendices thereto shall be
placed on file with the City Clerk. (Ord. No. 662, 10/1/90)
§ 3-139   FLUORIDATION PROHIBITED.
The addition of fluoride to the municipal water supply of the City of St. Paul
is prohibited. (Ord. No. 869, 1/5/09)
§ 3-140   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   Definitions. WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the surface and subsurface
area surrounding a public water supply well or well field, supplying a public
water supply system, through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move
toward and reach such water well or well field.
   (B)   The City of Saint Paul designates a Wellhead Protection Area for the
purpose of protecting a public water supply system. The boundaries are based
upon the Wellhead Protection Area Map presented to the City of Saint Paul of
Howard County by the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality. This map
shall become and is incorporated into the terms of this section as is fully set
forth herein and such map shall be further identified as a Wellhead Protection
Area Map/City of Saint Paul Ordinance #924. (Ord. No. 924, 12/17/12)
Article 2. Sewer Department
§ 3-201   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING
The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Sewer System through the
Utilities Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) of the Municipal
Sewer System may establish a user charge system based on actual use and revise
the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
   1.   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
   2.   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R;
   3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
   The revenue from the said user charge system based on actual use shall be
known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his office. He shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Department
subject to the supervision and review of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-149, 17-
925.01 RS Neb.)
§ 3-202   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; DEFINITION OF TERMS.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this Article shall be as follows:
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The term "Biochemical Oxygen Demand" (BOD) shall
mean and include the quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation
of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five (5) days at
twenty (20) degrees C., expressed in parts per million by weight or degrees C.,
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The terms "Building Drain" and "House Drain" shall
mean and include that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a house or
building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, or
other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house.
   BUILDING SEWER. The term "Building Sewer" shall mean the extension from the
building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The term "Chlorine Requirement" shall mean the amount
of chlorine, in parts per million by weight, which must be added to sewage to
produce a specified residual chlorine content, or to meet the requirements of
some other objective, in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard
Methods."
   COMBINED SEWER. The term "Combined Sewer" shall mean a sewer receiving both
surface runoff and sewage.
   EASEMENT. The term "Easement" shall mean an acquired legal right for the
specific use of land owned by others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. The term "Floatable Oil" shall mean oil, fat, or grease in a
physical state such that it will separate by gravity from wastewater by
treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be
considered free of floatable fat if it is properly pretreated and the
wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
   GARBAGE. The term "Garbage" shall mean solid wastes from the domestic and
commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling,
storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The term "Industrial Wastes" shall mean the liquid wastes
from industrial manufacturing processes, trade, or business as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
   LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. The term "Local Ventilating Pipe" shall mean and
include any pipe through which foul air is removed from a room or fixture.
   MAY. The term "May" is permissive; the term "Shall" is mandatory.
   NATURAL OUTLET. The term "Natural Outlet" shall mean any outlet into a
watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. The term "Normal Sewage" shall mean sewage not exceeding
maximum tolerance of contamination of 300 milligrams per liter BOD or 350
milligrams per liter of Suspended Solids.
   PARTS PER MILLION. The term "Parts Per Million" shall mean a weight-to-
weight ratio; the parts-per million value multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall
be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   PERSON. The term "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, company,
association, society, corporation, or group.
   pH. The term "pH" shall mean the logarithm of the reciprocal of the
hydrogen-ion concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions,
in grams, per liter of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of
7 and a hydrogen-ion concentration of 107.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. The term "Plumbing Fixtures" shall mean and include
receptacles intended to receive and discharge water liquid or water-carried
wastes into the sewer system with which they are connected.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The term "Properly Shredded Garbage" shall mean
the wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been
shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the
flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater
than one half (1/2) inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. The term "Public Sewer" shall mean a sewer in which all owners
of abutting properties have equal rights, and is controlled by public
authority.
   REPLACEMENT. The term "replacement" shall mean expenditures for obtaining
and installing equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary
during the service life of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. The term "Sanitary Sewer" shall mean and include a sewer
which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The term "Service Charge" shall mean the basic assessment
levied on all users of the public sewer system whose waste does not exceed in
strength the concentration values established as representative of normal
sewage.
   SEWAGE. The term "Sewage" is the spent water of a community. The preferred
term is "Wastewater."
   SHALL. The term "Shall" is mandatory; the term "May" is permissive.
   SLUG. The term "Slug" shall mean any discharge of water, sewage, or
industrial waste which in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity
of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes
more than five (5) times the average twenty-four (24) hour concentration or
flows during normal operation.
   SOIL PIPE. The term "Soil Pipe" shall mean and include any pipe which
conveys the discharge of water closets with or without the discharge from other
fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STANDARD METHODS. The term "Standard Methods" shall mean the examination and
analytical procedures set forth in the most recent editions of "Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage, and Industrial Waste," published
jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM DRAIN. The term "Storm Drain" (sometimes termed "Storm Sewer") shall
mean a drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water, or
unpolluted water from any source.
   STORM SEWER. The term "Storm Sewer" shall mean a sewer which carries storm
and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes,
other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The term "Superintendent" shall mean the Utilities
Superintendent of the City of St. Paul, or his authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   SURCHARGE. The term "Surcharge" shall mean the assessment in addition to the
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established as representative of normal
sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The term "Suspended Solids" shall mean total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water,
wastewater, or other liquids, and that is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater"
and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TRAP. The term "Trap" shall mean and include a fitting or device so
constructed as to prevent the passage of air or gas through a pipe without
materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The term "Trap Seal" shall mean and include the vertical distance
between the crown weir and the dip of the trap.
   UNPOLLUTED WATERS. The term "Unpolluted Waters" is water of quality equal to
or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause
violation of receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by
discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VENT PIPE. The term "Vent Pipe" shall mean and include any pipe provided to
ventilate a house or building drainage system and to prevent trap siphonage and
back pressure.
   WASTE PIPE. The term "Waste Pipe" shall mean and include any pipe which
receives the discharge of any fixture, except water closets, and conveys the
same to the house drain, soil pipe, or waste stack.
   WASTEWATER. The term "Wastewater" shall mean the spent water of a community.
From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The term "Wastewater Facilities" shall mean the
structures, equipment, and processes required to collect, carry away, and treat
domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. The term "Wastewater Treatment Works" shall mean
an arrangement of devices and structure for treating wastewater, industrial
wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous with "Waste Treatment Plant"
or "Wastewater Treatment Plant" or "Water Pollution Control Plant."
   WATERCOURSE. The term "Watercourse" shall mean a natural or artificial
channel for the passage of water either continuously or intermittently.
§ 3-203   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; APPLICATION; BILLING.
All applications and bills for sewer service shall be made pursuant to and
subject to the provisions of Article 4 of this Chapter.
§ 3-204    MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SEWER CONTRACT.
The Municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish sewer
services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or
alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
Municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the Municipality, as and when,
according to law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations, and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this Article, shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the Municipality
to which said contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or
his agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or
premise of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premise shall again be made save or except by order of the
Utilities Superintendent or his agent. (Ref. 17-901, 17-902, 18-503 RS Neb.)
§ 3-205   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; SERVICE CONTRACTS.
Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to change
from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premise where service is
furnished, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from the said premise. If the customer should fail to
give notice, he shall be charged for that period of time until the official in
charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref. 17-901, 17-
902, 18-503 RS Neb.)
§ 3-206   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; CLASSIFICATION.
The Governing Body may classify for the purpose of rental fees the customers of
the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such classifications are
reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of
consumers. The classification must be approved by the Environmental Protection
Agency, relative to the user charge grant condition. (Ref. 17-925.02 RS Neb.)
§ 3-207   MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM; REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property which is
within the Municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains to repair
or replace any connection line which serves the owner's property and is broken,
clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property owner's
duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those portions
upon the owner's property and those portions upon public property or easements
up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If within thirty (30) days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the
Utilities Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by such connection. (Ref. 18-1748 RS Neb.)
§ 3-208   PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Municipality or within one (1) mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of said Municipality, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
§ 3-209   PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
Municipality, or within one (1) mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of said Municipality, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this Article.
§ 3-210   PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS
PROHIBITED.
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
§ 3-211   PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the Municipality and abutting on
any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the Municipality, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this Article within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within
three hundred (300') feet (91.5 meters) of the property line.
§ 3-212   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL; WHEN APPLICABLE.
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions
of section 3-211, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this Article.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private wastewater disposal system, as provided in section 3-211, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer within sixty (60) days in
compliance with this Article, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
§ 3-213   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT REQUIRED, FEE.
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
Municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars
shall be paid to the Municipality at the time the application is filed.
§ 3-214   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; PERMIT, WHEN EFFECTIVE; INSPECTIONS.
A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective until
the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. He
shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any
event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent when the
work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within twenty-four (24) hours of the
receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
§ 3-215   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; SPECIFICATIONS.
The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health of the
State of Nebraska. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot
is less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
§ 3-216   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; MAINTENANCE.
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the Municipality.
§ 3-217   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
No statement contained in Sections 3-212 through 3-216 shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health
Officer or Utilities Superintendent.
§ 3-218   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
§ 3-219   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION, FEE.
There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: (a) for residential
and commercial service, and (b) for service to establishments producing
industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the Municipality. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee of twenty-five ($25.00) dollars for a residential or
commercial building sewer permit and twenty-five ($25.00) dollars for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Municipality at the time
the application is filed.
§ 3-220   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXPENSE.
All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
Municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
§ 3-221   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
The owner shall hire a licensed plumber to tap into the main. All installations
shall be made in compliance to all applicable plumbing and construction codes
of the Municipality.
§ 3-222   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; SINGLE PREMISE.
A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every building;
except where one (1) building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot
and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one (1) building sewer, but the Municipality does not and will
not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting
from any such single connection aforementioned.
§ 3-223   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this Article.
§ 3-224   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; CONSTRUCTION CODES.
The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer, and
the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing
and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
Municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the Municipality, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All
such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
§ 3-225   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is
approved by the Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage; provided, that if responsibility can be determined, the party
responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public sanitary
sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the polluted
drainage.
§ 3-226   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; INSPECTIONS.
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his representative.
§ 3-227   BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION; EXCAVATIONS.
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Municipality pursuant to
section 8-308.
§ 3-228   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER,
COOLING WATER AND PROCESS WATER.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including interior and
exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet. The contributor of any
identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary sewer system shall be
held responsible for reimbursing the Municipality for such costs. The costs
shall be determined by the Superintendent with the approval of the Governing
Body.
§ 3-229   HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND
OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
   2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
   3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   5.   Any waters or wastes having:
      a)   a five (5) day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight or,
      b)   containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids, or
      c)   having an average daily flow greater than two (2%) per cent of the
average sewage flow of the Municipality, or
      d)   a chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the Municipality's consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
      a)   reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight, or
      b)   reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight, or
      c)   control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes, or
      d)   reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   Plans, specifications, and other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Superintendent and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approvals are obtained in writing.
§ 3-230   HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS
DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances
prohibited are:
   1. Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
(150o) degrees Farenheit (65o degrees C).
   2.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty-two (32o)
degrees and one hundred fifty (150o) degrees F (0 and 65o C).
   3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths (3/4)
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.
   4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
   5.   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials.
   6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of State, Federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable State or Federal regulations.
   8.   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of [9.5].
   9.   Materials which exert or cause:
      a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids, (such as but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate).
      b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
   10. Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
§ 3-231   DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; REJECTION,
PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in section 3-230, and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to
constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
   1.   Reject the wastes,
   2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers,
   3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
   4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section 3-237.
   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
§ 3-232   GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates, and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by owner(s)' personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste
disposal firms.
§ 3-233   PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense.
§ 3-234   CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND
MAINTENANCE.
When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
§ 3-235   CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS; METHOD.
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this Article, shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty-four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from twenty-four (24) hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH's are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
§ 3-236    SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
§ 3-237   HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED;
USE FEE SURCHARGE.
No statement contained in this Article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the Municipality and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
§ 3-238   COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the Municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing system in accordance with the provisions of this Article. The
Superintendent or his representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
§ 3-239   COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS; INJURY LIABILITY.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in
section 3-238 above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
Municipality shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the Municipal employees and the Municipality shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by Municipal employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in section 3-234.
§ 3-240   COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE; INSPECTIONS; EASEMENTS.
The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the Municipality
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the Municipality holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
§ 3-241   VIOLATION; NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article except section
3-236 shall be served by the Municipality with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall become
liable to the Municipality for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the
Municipality by reason of such violation.
§ 3-242   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; MUNICIPAL POWERS.
The Municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user charges,
industrial cost recovery charge, and sewer use regulations on all existing or
future users of the system whether located inside or outside the Municipal
limits.
§ 3-243   SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of this Article
shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Article which can be
given effect without such invalid part or parts.
§ 3-244   PENAL PROVISION; VIOLATION.
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided in
section 3-223, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be fined in the amount not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each violation. Each twenty-four (24) hour period in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
§ 3-245   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; RATE SETTING.
Customers of the Municipal Sewer Department shall be charged the following rate
(s) for the use of sewer service. All users shall be charged, each month as set
forth below.
   (1)   Effective March 1, 2021:
      A.   The rate for all sanitary sewer users shall be two dollars and sixty
cents ($2.60) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water per month. The months
of December, January and February shall be used to determine the average usage
for each month to charge the remainder of the year.
      B.   In addition to the two dollars and sixty cents ($2.60) per one
thousand (1,000) gallons rate, a monthly service rate of twenty-two dollars and
fifty cents ($22.50) shall apply regardless of water usage.
   (2)   Effective March 1, 2022:
      A.   The rate for all sanitary sewer users shall be three dollars and
twenty cents ($3.20) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water per month. The
months of December, January and February shall be used to determine the average
usage for each month to charge the remainder of the year.
      B.   In addition to the three dollars and twenty cents ($3.20) per one
thousand (1,000) gallons rate, a monthly service rate of thirty dollars
($30.00) shall apply regardless of water usage.
   (3)   Effective March 1, 2023:
      A.   The rate for all sanitary sewer users shall be three dollars and
eighty cents ($3.80) per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water per month. The
months of December, January and February shall be used to determine the average
usage for each month to charge the remainder of the year.
      B.   In addition to the three dollars and eighty cents ($3.80) per one
thousand (1,000) gallons rate, a monthly service rate of thirty-seven dollars
($37.00) shall apply regardless of water usage.
   (4)   A user may request a reset of the average at any time during the year
providing that the residence is occupied and in use. The three (3) months
following the request will be used to determine the average usage. Proration of
the average due to extenuating circumstances, ex. water leaks, water shutoffs,
and vacancies, is at the discretion of the Utility Superintendent and City
Clerk.
   Sanitary Sewer Usershall mean any location with an individual water meters
and/or individual electric meter.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 609, 10/17/88; 635, 8/8/91; 643, 5/4/92; 716, 2/2/98;
774, 12/10/01; 787, 9/2/03; 827, 10/23/06 and amended 12/18/06; 893, 9/7/10;
971, 10/3/16; 1018, 2/1/21)
§ 3-246   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; RE- PLACEMENT FUND.
There is hereby established a replacement fund in the sewer fund for the
purpose of providing a fund for the eventual replacement of the wastewater
equipment in the system for the Municipality. It is anticipated that the
reasonable life of the wastewater treatment system constructed in 1988 shall be
20-25 years and said replacement fund shall provide for sufficient monies to
operate and maintain equipment in system. The rates charged to users shall be
set on an annual basis and will be based upon the anticipated cost of operating
and maintaining said wastewater treatment system, and said annual fund shall be
based upon an itemized annual budget for the wastewater system which will
include the replacement schedule. For information, the funds to be set aside
are based upon Appendix B to User Charge Ordinance. (Ord. No. 609, 10/17/88)
§ 3-247   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; USER NOTIFICATION.
The City of St. Paul, each year, will notify each user, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the sewer charges which are
attributed to the wastewater services. (Ord. No. 609, 10/17/88)
§ 3-248   MUNICIPAL SEWER DEPARTMENT; USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
The user charge system shall take precedence over any terms or conditions or
agreements with users which are inconsistent with requirements of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act with the corresponding regulations. (Ord. No. 609,
10/17/88)
Article 3. Electrical System
§ 3-301   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; OWNERSHIP.
The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Electrical System through the
Utilities Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Electrical
System may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody
of the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Electrical System and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his office. He shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the Electrical System
subject to the supervision and review of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-902 thru
17-904, 17-906, 17-909 RS Neb.)
§ 3-302   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
The Municipality through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any
supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such
other persons within or without its service area, as and when, according to
law, the Governing Body may see fit to do so. The rules and regulations, shall
be considered a part of every application hereafter made for electric service
and shall be considered a part of the contract between every consumer now
served by the Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making of
application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric
energy by present customers and the furnishing of electric service to said
applicant or customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer
and the Municipality, to which both parties are bound.
If customer should violate any of the provisions of said contract or any
reasonable rules and regulations that the Governing Body may hereafter adopt,
the Utilities Superintendent, or his agent, shall cut off or disconnect the
electric service from the building or place of such violation and no further
connection of electric service for such building or place shall again be made
save or except by order of the Superintendent or his agent.
§ 3-303   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; APPLICA TION; BILLING.
All applications and bills for electric service shall be made pursuant to and
subject to the provisions of Section 3-304 and Article 4 of this Chapter.
§ 3-304   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; SERVICE DEPOSIT AND RECONNECT FEES.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 850, 11/19/07)
§ 3-305   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; RECON NECTION CHARGE.
(Repealed by Ord. No 737, 1/18/00)
§ 3-306   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose, or remove from the premise where
service is furnished in his name, or if the said premise is destroyed by fire
or other casualty, he shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who
shall cause the electrical service to be shut off from the said premise. If the
consumer should fail to give such notice, he shall be charged for all
electricity used on the said premise until the Utilities Superintendent is
otherwise advised of such circumstances. (Ref. 17-902, 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-307   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; LICENSED ELECTRICIAN.
Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of the
electrical distribution system of this Municipality and the meter of the
consumer, except by an employee of the Municipality or a licensed electrician
authorized to do so by the Utilities Superintendent. The consumer may have
wiring done by any competent licensed electrician from the meter to the points
of distribution. All wiring, equipment, and apparatus shall be installed
according to the electrical code duly adopted by the Municipality. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations, and specifications for such installation
prescribed by the Utilities Superintendent and Building Inspector; Provided,
that such rules, regulations, and specifications have been reviewed and
approved by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-902, 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-308   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; INSTALLATION.
The cost of installation of electric service within the City and the policies
and procedures therefor are adopted by reference and incorporated as if fully
set forth herein. These policies and procedures are on file in the office of
the City Clerk and available for inspection by the public during normal
business hours. (Amended by Ord. No. 809, 4/4/05)
§ 3-309   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; METERS.
All electrical meters shall be read at least one (1) time each month during
which electrical service is used between the nineteenth (19th) day and the
first (1st) day of the succeeding month. In the event a meter is broken or
otherwise fails to register accurately the use of electricity by any consumer,
the six (6) month average of the season one (1) year previous to such breakage
shall be used for billing purposes. (Ref. 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-310   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; RESTRICTED USE.
The Municipal Electrical System does not guarantee the delivery of electric
current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has sufficient
power, current, equipment, and machinery to do so. The Utilities Superintendent
has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such service for any
good and sufficient reason without liability. The Municipality shall use due
care and reasonable diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to
consumers, but shall not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of
service due to causes over which the Municipality has no control and the
Municipality expressly reserves the right to discontinue or disconnect any
consumer's service without preliminary notice. (Ref. 17-902, 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-311   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; BUILDING MOVING.
Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it becomes
necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or wires of the
Municipal Electrical System, the same should not be done except upon written
permission received from the Utilities Superintendent, who shall then order
paid in advance the actual cost of moving the said wires and such cost shall be
paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house. All expense
of removing, changing, and replacing the said wires or apparatus of the
Electrical System shall be paid out of the deposit made prior to moving and any
surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be returned to the
applicant; Provided, that if in the course of moving the said building or house
it becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred, such additional
deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded. (Ref. 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-312   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; METER IN DISREPAIR.
In the event that any customer's meter falls out of repair or fails to register
properly, the Superintendent shall charge such customer the same amount billed
one (1) year previous to such disrepair. In the event that there is no such
basis for comparison, the Superintendent shall charge the customer such amount
as he deems is fair both to the customer and the Municipality. (Ref. 19-1404 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-312.01 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION.
No person shall make connection from a supply of electricity to any new
electrical installation, any electrical installation which has been ordered
disconnected, or any electrical installation where the service entrance or
service equipment has been disconnected, moved or otherwise altered, until
authorized by the City, except in an emergency to safeguard life or property,
and when such connection is made in a safe manner by a person qualified and
shall notify the City as soon as possible. (Ord. No. 850, 11/19/07)
§ 3-313   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; POSTING SIGNS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack, or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures, or equipment of the Municipal Electrical System any sign,
poster, advertisement, or banner without written permission from the Utilities
Superintendent. (Ref. 19-1404 RS Neb.)
§ 3-313.01 MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM;  CORRECTIONS.
Whenever any electrical installation is found to have been installed, altered,
changed or reconstructed contrary to the provisions of this code or any other
law; whenever any electrical installation is found to be in use contrary to the
provisions of this code or any other law; or whenever any electrical
installation, which complied with the existing laws, ordinances and regulations
in effect when the electrical work thereon was performed, is found to be unsafe
or dangerous to persons or property, the building official shall give the owner
or the person in control of such installation a written notice stating the
findings with respect to such installation and order the owner or such other
person to make the corrections to be set forth in such written notice within
ten (10) days from the date of service of such notice or within such further
time as the building official may allow. When the installation is found to have
been altered to supply a connection disconnected for lack of payment, the
corrections shall be made within twenty-four (24) hours or the customer’s
service may be disconnected without further notice. (Ord. No. 850, 11/19/07)
§ 3-314    MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; TRIMMING TREES.
Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in close
proximity to the lines of the Municipal Electrical System shall, before doing
the said work, give reasonable written notice to the Utilities Superintendent
and shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he may prescribe for
doing such work. It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing such
trees or branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper
notice and receiving permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes
necessary to protect the lines or property of the Electrical System, the
Utilities Superintendent shall have the power to cut and remove any overhanging
branches, or limbs of trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
§ 3-315   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; INSPECTIONS.
The Utilities Superintendent or his duly authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to each premise and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; Provided, that in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time. (Ref. 17-902 RS Neb.)
§ 3-316    MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure,
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment, or
appurtenance of the Municipal Electrical System. (Ref. 28-512 RS Neb.)
§ 3-317   COGENERATION; PURPOSE.
In order to comply with Sections 201 and 210 of the Public Utility Regulatory
Policies Act of 1978 and with the rules and regulations of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission pertaining thereto, the following policies relating to
interconnections of the electric system of the Municipality with cogeneration
and small power production facilities, rates for sales of electric energy to
such facilities, and rates for purchases of electric energy from such
facilities are hereby established.
§ 3-318   COGENERATION; DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this Article the following definitions will apply.
AVOIDED COSTS means the incremental costs to an electric utility of electric
energy or capacity or both which, but for the purchase from qualifying
facilities, such utility would generate itself or purchase from another source.
COGENERATION FACILITY means a facility which produces electric energy and steam
or other forms of useful energy (such as heat) which are used for industrial,
commercial, heating, or cooling purposes.
INTERCONNECTION COSTS means the reasonable costs of connection, switching,
metering, transmission, distribution, safety provisions, and administrative
costs incurred by the electric utility directly related to the installation and
maintenance of the physical facilities necessary to permit interconnected
operations with a qualifying facility, to the extent such costs are in excess
of the corresponding costs which the electric utility would have incurred if it
had not engaged in interconnected operations, but instead generated an
equivalent amount of electric energy itself or purchased an equivalent amount
of electric energy or capacity from other sources. (Interconnection costs do
not include any costs involved in the calculation of avoided costs.)
QUALIFYING COGENERATION FACILITY means a cogeneration facility that meets the
requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regarding ownership,
fuel use, and operating and efficiency standards.
QUALIFYING SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY means a small power production
facility that meets the requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission regarding ownership, fuel use, fuel efficiency, and reliability.
SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY means a facility which produces electric energy
solely by the use, as a primary energy source, of biomass, waste, renewable
resources, or any combination thereof totaling not greater than 80 megawatts at
one site.
§ 3-319   COGENERATION; INTERCONNECTIONS WITH QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
Qualifying facilities desiring to interconnect with the electric system of the
Municipality shall make application to the Department of Utilities for such
interconnection. Applicants shall use such forms as are prescribed by the
Municipality and shall furnish all information requested.
   The Municipality shall establish reasonable standards to be met by
qualifying facilities to ensure system safety and reliability of interconnected
operations. Such standards may include but shall not be limited to the
following areas: power factor; voltage regulations; fault, overcurrent, and
over-under voltage protection; harmonics; synchronization; and isolation.
   Interconnection costs associated with the interconnection with a qualifying
facility shall be paid for by such qualifying facility. Qualifying facilities
shall be required to execute contractural agreements with the Municipality
before any interconnection is established.
§ 3-320   COGENERATION; RATES FOR SALES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY TO QUALIFYING
FACILITIES.
   Rates for sales of electric energy to qualifying facilities shall be those
current standard rates adopted from time to time by resolution of the Mayor and
City Council which apply to other customers of the utility in the same
classification(s) of electric service.
§ 3-321   COGENERATION; RATES FOR PURCHASES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY FROM QUALIFYING
FACILITIES.
Rates for purchases of electric energy from qualifying facilities shall be
established by resolution of the Mayor and City Council.
   Such rates shall be just and reasonable to the electric consumer of the
utility and in the public interest, shall not discriminate against qualifying
cogeneration and small power production facilities, and shall be related to
avoided costs; however, in no case is the utility required to pay more than the
avoided costs.
   Standard rates shall be established for purchases from qualifying facilities
with a design capacity of 100 kilowatts or less. Rates for purchases from
qualifying facilities with a design capacity over 100 kilowatts may be standard
rates or may be by individual contracts, the terms of which are fair and
reasonable.
§ 3-322   MUNICIPAL ELECTRICAL SYSTEM; RATE SETTING.
Electric customers of the Municipal Electrical Department shall be charged the
following rate(s) for the use of electrical service. Electric customers whose
service is disconnected by written order of the Utility Superintendent shall
not be liable thereafter for electrical service until electrical service is
restored.
   1.   Residential Rate
 
Customer Charge     $9.25 per month
Net Metering Charge $20.00 per month
First 50 KWH    @ 18.49¢ per KWH per month
Next 150 KWH        @ 12.57¢ per KWH per month
Next 300 KWH        @ 10.22¢ per KWH per month
Remainder KWH       @ 6.05¢ - Winter (October - May Billing)
Remainder KWH       @ 9.56¢ - Summer (June-September Billing)
 
   2.   Commercial Rate
Single Phase Customer Charge $13.00 per month
Net Metering Charge          $20.00 per month
First 500 KWH                @ 14.68¢ per KWH per month
Next 4,500 KWH               @ 10.22¢ per KWH per month
Remainder KWH                @ 8.77¢ - Winter (October - May Billing)
Remainder KWH                @ 9.59¢ - Summer (June-September Billing)
Three Phase Customer Charge  $18.50 per month
Net Metering Charge          $30.00 per month
First 500 KWH                @ 14.68¢ minimum per month
Next 4,500 KWH               @ 10.22¢ per KWH per month
Remainder KWH                @ 8.77¢ - Winter (October-May Billing)
Remainder KWH                @ 9.59¢ - Summer (June-September Billing)
 
Rate applicable to all loads exclusive of single family dwellings.
   3.   Commercial Demand Rate
   When the monthly KWH consumption exceeds 15,000 KWH or rated transformer
capacity is 45 KW or above, demand type metering will be installed by the City
of St. Paul, Nebraska. When the 15-minute rolling demand exceeds 45 KW, the
rate schedule shall convert to the commercial demand rate and the charges shall
be as follows:
 
Customer $26.00 per month
Charge
Demand:  (1)   $13.75 per KW for maximum demand Winter Rates.
         (2)   $14.45 per KW for maximum demand Summer Rates.
         (3)   65% of maximum Summer demand during preceding 11 months. Summer shall
         mean June through September.
Energy:  For all KWH   $0.0502 (5.02¢), with a minimum charge of $250.00 of racheted
         demand in the Winter months of October through and including May
Energy:  For all KWH   $0.0595(5.95¢), with a minimum charge of $250.00 of racheted
         demand in the Summer months of June through and including September
 
   4.   Electric customers may be subject to an additional charge for the fuel
cost to the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, charged by the Howard-Greeley Rural
Public Power District. The fuel cost charged by the Howard-Greeley Rural Public
Power District to the City shall be prorated among electric customers by the
same factor as used by the Howard-Greeley Rural Public Power District to
compute its fuel cost per kilowatt hour consumed times the monthly fuel cost
factor. The City shall use the same factor to prorate the fuel cost to each
electric customer, whether the customer is commercial or residential.
   5.   The Utility Clerk or Bookkeeper shall require a service deposit from
domestic occupants who are living in a home leased by them in a sum not to
exceed two hundred and fifty ($250.00) dollars and from commercial users
operating their businesses in a building or other type of structure leased by
them in a sum not to exceed two hundred and fifty ($250.00) dollars.
   6.   Service to the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, shall be measured and bills
shall be rendered to the various departments of said City and shall be
collected and paid for in accordance with the above rates.
   7.   The City of St. Paul, Nebraska, by resolution of its Mayor and Council
shall have the power and authority to contract with any person, persons,
association or corporation, to sell electric current for light, heat and power
purposes beyond its corporate limits when, in the judgment of the Mayor and
Council, it is beneficial to the City to do so. The cost or expense of
extending the City lines beyond its borders, to serve farmers and others shall
be paid out of net earnings of the system. For furnishing electric service
beyond its corporate limits, subject to the above conditions, said City may
establish rates with such person, persons, association or corporation without
regard to the rates specified in the foregoing schedule; provided however, that
the contract rate made shall be uniform so far as it affects the users of equal
amounts of current under such contracts under similar conditions.
   8.   No electric current shall be furnished to any customer under any other
rate than as provided in this Section, and there shall be no discrimination in
rates as between electric customers using equal amounts of current for the same
purpose under the same conditions.
   9.   Electrical energy shall be sold by meter measurements only. No flat
rates will be quoted or allowed.
   10.   Payment of all utility bills shall be due by the twentieth (20th) of
every month unless otherwise stated on the bill. A late payment penalty of 10%
(ten percent) shall be added to the total amount of the bill after the due
date. This will be effective May 1, 2017.
   11.   If a balance on an account remains unpaid after the due date and no
arrangements have been made to satisfy the account, the City will mail to the
electric customer a "disconnect notice" by first-class mail stating the date
the service will be disconnected. This will result in an additional charge of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) to offset the cost of generating a disconnect notice,
which will be effective May 1, 2017. Prior to disconnection, the electric
customer should make every effort to arrange for payment with the City. Should
the electric customer fail to make such arrangements or to comply with these
arrangements, the disconnection process will be enforced.
   12.   If electrical service is not disconnected following the issuance of a
disconnect notice, the City may issue subsequent disconnect notices. Each
disconnect notice will be mailed by first-class mail and shall carry an
additional service charge fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00). This will be
effective May 1, 2017.
   13.   All disconnect notices will reflect the legal requirements of sections
70-1605 and 70-1606 RS Neb. These notices will give the electric customer no
less than seven (7) working days to either pay the account in full or make
mutually agreeable arrangements for payment of the account in a timely manner.
   14.   In the event electrical services are disconnected, for any reason, the
electrical deposit, if any, shall be set off against the final bill rendered to
the electric customer.
      The cost to restore electrical service to the meter will include payment
of the current billing, late penalties, disconnect notice fees, plus a
reconnect fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) provided such disconnection and
reconnection is done during normal business hours. If demand is made to
reconnect after normal business hours, weekends or holidays, the fee associated
therewith shall be sixty dollars ($60.00). This will be effective May 1, 2017.
   15.   A fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) will be charged to the electric
customer for any and all checks returned for non-sufficient funds. This will be
effective May 1, 2017.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 667, 2/21/95; 732, 4/19/99; 757, 7/24/00; 765, 1/8/01;
772, 12/10/01; 780, 1/21/03; 793, 1/12/04; 829, 12/18/06; 850, 11/19/07; 868,
12/15/08; 880, 12/21/09; 898, 12/6/10; 911, 1/3/12; 923, 12/3/12; 951, 5/6/15;
974, 3/6/17)
Article 4. Utilities Generally
§ 3-401   UTILITIES GENERALLY; BILLS; JOINT BILL; WHEN DUE AND DELINQUENT;
METER READING.
Utility bills shall be a joint bill for all utility services and shall be due
and payable monthly at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   All utility meters shall be read by the Superintendent or his agent between
the 19th or 20th day of the month during which the utility service is used and
the first day of the succeeding month; Provided, however, water use may be
estimated during the winter months when necessary due to cold conditions. The
Superintendent or his duly authorized agents who are charged with the duty of
reading utility meters, shall, as said utility meters are read, deliver the
amount of utilities used to the Clerk or Deputy Clerk who shall compute all
utility bills.
   All bills for utilities service shall be due and payable monthly at the
office of the Clerk or Deputy Clerk of the City of St. Paul. Said utility bills
are due and payable as herein provided without any further notice to the
consumer. If utility bills are not paid on or before the 10th day of each month
after the same are due, as aforesaid, such bill shall be deemed delinquent.
Upon being deemed delinquent, such bill shall be subject to a delinquency fee
of ten (10%) per cent of the total bill and shall be subject to disconnection
pursuant to Section 3-402.  (Ref. 17-537, 18-503, 19-904 RS Neb.)
§ 3-401.01   UTILITIES GENERALLY; BILLS; ELECTRIC, WATER, SEWER, AND SOLID
WASTE BILL; COLLECTION; WHEN DELINQUENT.
   (1)   Beginning with the Utility Billing of the Utility Department of the
City of St. Paul, Nebraska for the month of April 1994 and continuing monthly
after that residents of the City of St. Paul shall, in addition to electrical
service, water service, and sewer service, be billed for solid waste collection
service in the amount of $11.00 monthly unless a resident informs the City
Utilities Department that the resident has contracted with a licensed hauler
who is charging a different rate which rate shall be billed to the resident.
   (2)   The municipal utility service collection statement will be composed of
a single billing with separate components as follows:
      Electrical Service
      Water Service
      Sewer Service
      Landfill
      Solid Waste Collection Service (Garbage G1 or G2)
      Other Services Specific to City
   (3)   These Municipal Utility service charges will be billed in one billing.
All charges for electrical service, water service, sewer service, and solid
waste collection will be collected by the City of St. Paul, Nebraska.
   (4)   In the event the entire municipal utility service charge, or any part
of it, is not paid within 10 days after billing, it shall be deemed delinquent.
   (5)   Upon the service charge(s) being deemed delinquent, the City, at its
option, may elect to pursue any one or any combination of the following
remedies: 1) place such unpaid amounts against the property as a lien that are
to be collected before any other payment of taxes and/or fees against such
property as may be allowed by Nebraska Statute; 2) pursue payment in a court of
competent jurisdiction; 3) terminate service to such user or property as may be
allowed by Nebraska Statutes relating to the termination of service. (Ord. No.
660, 4/11/94)
§ 3-401.02 SPECIAL RULES; LANDLORD AND TENANT.
   Whenever utilities are provided by the Municipality to property which is not
owner-occupied, the owner may be liable for utility bills of the tenant
remaining unpaid, regardless of whether the tenant or other person occupying
the premises has entered into a contract with the Municipality for utility
service and paid the required deposits, unless:
   (1)   Within three (3) days of the tenant or occupant vacating the premises,
the owner notifies the Municipality to disconnect services;
   (2)   Within three (3) days of the tenant or occupant taking possession of
the premises, the owner notifies the Municipality that the premises are
occupied. (Ord. No. 850, 11/19/07)
§ 3-402   UTILITIES GENERALLY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE, NOTICE PROCEDURE.
The Municipality shall have the right to discontinue services and remove its
properties if the charges for such services are not paid within twenty (20)
days after the date that the same becomes delinquent. Before any termination,
the Department of Utilities shall first give notice by first class mail or in
person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated.
If notice is given by first class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked
as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven (7)
days, weekends and holidays excluded. As to any subscriber who has previously
been identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the Department of
Social Services, such notice shall be by certified mail and notice of such
proposed termination shall be given to the Department of Social Services.
   The notice shall contain the following information:
   1.   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
   2.   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the Department
regarding payment of the bill;
   3.   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
   4.   The name, address, and telephone number of the employee or department
to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
   5.   The domestic subscriber's right, prior to the disconnection date, to
request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
   6.   A statement that the Department may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
   7.   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician's certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber's
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility's service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the Department of Utilities within five (5) days of
receiving notice under this Section and will prevent the disconnection of the
Department's services for a period of thirty (30) days from such filing. Only
one (1) postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this subsection
for each incidence of non-payment of any due account;
   8.   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for restoration
of service;
   9.   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
Department for an installment payment plan;
   10.   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
   11.   Any additional information not inconsistent with this Section which
has received prior approval from the Governing Body.
   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of service by
notifying the utility with a written statement that sets forth the reasons for
the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been made by the
subscriber, a conference shall be held before the utility may discontinue
services.
   The procedures adopted by the Governing Body for resolving utility bills,
three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk, are
hereby incorporated by reference in addition to any amendments thereto and are
made a part hereof as though set out in full.
   This Section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.  (Ref. 19-2702 et seq. RS Neb.)
§ 3-403   UTILITIES GENERALLY; DIVERSION OF SERVICES; PENALTY.
The Municipality may bring a civil action for damages against any person who
commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts (a) bypassing, (b)
tampering, or (c) unauthorized metering when such act results in damages to a
Municipal Utility. A Municipality may bring a civil action for damages pursuant
to this Section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
   In any civil action brought pursuant to this Section, the Municipality shall
be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering to recover as damages:
      A.   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage or
loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
      B.   Liquidated damages of seven hundred fifty ($750.00) dollars if the
amount of actual damage or loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
   In addition to damage or loss under subdivision A or B of this Section the
Municipality may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on account
of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering including, but not
limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of the
suit, and reasonable attorneys' fees in cases within the scope of Section 25-
1801 Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska 1943.
   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
if the tenant or occupant (a) had access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist and (b) was responsible or partially responsible for
payment, either directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person
for utility services to the premises.
   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any premises
where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to exist caused
or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering if the
customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering was proven to
exist.
   The remedies provided by this Section shall be deemed to be supplemental and
additional to powers conferred by existing laws and the remedies provided in
this Section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other civil or
criminal statutory or common law remedies. (Ref. 86-331.01 thru 86-331.04 RS
Neb.)
Article 5. Fire Department and Rescue Unit
§ 3-501   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality operates the Municipal Fire Department through the Municipal
Fire Chief and Firemen. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the
cost of the management, maintenance, and improving the Fire Department may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limits prescribed by State law, on
the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Fire Department Fund. The Fund shall be at all times in the
possession of the Municipal Treasurer. The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire
Department and it shall be his duty to inform the Governing Body when any of
the fire engines, hose, ladders, or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the
written consent and directive of the Governing Body, the Fire Chief shall cause
the repair, improvement, or maintenance of the said equipment and shall
personally supervise and approve of the same. (Ref. 17-147, 17-718, 17-953, 35-
530 RS Neb.)
§ 3-502   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE CHIEF.
The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department and it shall be his duty to
inform the Governing Body when any of the fire engines, hose, ladders, or other
apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the Governing
Body, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or maintenance of the
said equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the same. It shall
be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Governing Body at the regular
meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the Governing Body
of the general condition and the proposed additions or improvements recommended
by him.
§ 3-503   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
The Fire Chief shall appoint no more than twenty-five (25) members for each
Fire Department Company subject to the review and approval of the Governing
Body. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner. Said members shall be
considered to be employees of the Municipality for the purpose of providing
them with workmen's compensation and other benefits. Each member shall be
entitled to a term life insurance policy in the amount of at least five
thousand ($5,000.00) dollars for death from any cause to age sixty-five (65)
and such policy shall, at the option of the individual fireman, be convertible
to a permanent form of life insurance at age sixty-five (65); Provided, that
the firemen covered are actively and faithfully performing the duties of their
position. The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be
decided by the Governing Body. The members may organize themselves in any way
they may decide, subject to the review of the Governing Body. They may hold
meetings and engage in social activities with the approval of the Governing
Body. The secretary shall upon request keep a record of all meetings and shall
make a report to the Governing Body of all meetings and activities of the Fire
Department. The Governing Body may, for services rendered, compensate or reward
any member or members of the Fire Department in an amount set by resolution.
All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the Governing Body. The members of the Fire
Department shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and
exercise the powers and duties of policemen and shall have full power and
authority to arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the Municipal Code,
or the laws of the State of Nebraska.
   Provided, however, Volunteer Firefighters and rescue squad members
testifying as a witness in connection with his or her officially assigned
duties in that capacity alone shall not be deemed employees of the State of
Nebraska or of the Municipality.  (Ref. 33-139.01, 35-101 thru 35-103, 35-108
RS Neb.)
§ 3-504   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; RECORDS.
The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of the
Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, a record of all fires,
and shall make a full report of such records to the Municipal Clerk during the
last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the cause,
origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal conduct may have
been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, he shall include the
information of whether such losses were covered by insurance, and if so, in
what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any reasonable
time.
§ 3-505   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRES.
It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the Municipality; and to
secure the observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations
with respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 3-506   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; DISTANT FIRES.
Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any mutual aid
agreement, such fire equipment of the Municipality as may be designated by the
Governing Body as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to
extinguish reported fires.
§ 3-507   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; HOSE TESTED.
All fire hose shall be pressure tested at least one (1) time each year.
§ 3-508   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE HYDRANTS TESTED.
All fire hydrants shall be tested at least one (1) time each year.
§ 3-509   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; DRILLS.
The Municipal Fire Department shall hold departmental fire drills at least one
(1) time per month at such times as the members of the Fire Department shall
decide.
§ 3-510   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; INSPECTIONS.
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the Governing
Body, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers, members,
or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than two (2)
times a year in outlying districts and four (4) times a year within the fire
limits, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the interiors
of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection shall
be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles, and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; and the means and adequacy of exits,
in case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theatres, factories,
hospitals, and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation, and operation of equipment for storing,
handling, and utilizing of liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the
odorization of said gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin
plastics, nitrocellulose films, or any other hazardous material that may now or
hereafter exist. (Ref. 81-512 RS Neb.)
§ 3-511   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
Upon the finding that the Municipal Code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of the
premise where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premise and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the said premise. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an
order upon the owner, such order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy
to the owner's last known post office address if the said owner is absent from
the jurisdiction. Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the
owner, occupant, or manager of the premise or building. The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within five (5) days after such order by the Chief of the Fire
Department or his agent, appeal the order with the Governing Body requesting a
review and it shall be the duty of the Governing Body to hear the same within
not less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days from the time when the
request was filed in writing with the Municipal Clerk. The Governing Body shall
then affirm, modify, or rescind the said order as safety and justice may
require and the decision shall then be final, subject only to any remedy which
the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The said order shall be
modified or rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable safety exists
and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable hardship in
complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any decision so
made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant, or manager
making the appeal.
§ 3-512   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; IMPERSONATING FIREMEN.
It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely personate a fireman by wearing a
badge or other apparel usually worn by a fireman for the purpose of obtaining
any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the
theatrical representation of a fireman for bona fide entertainment purposes
when there is no intent to defraud. (Ref. 28-609 RS Neb.)
§ 3-513   MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; POWER OF ARREST.
The Municipal Fire Chief or the assistant Fire Chief shall have the power
during the time of a fire and for a period of thirty-six (36) hours after its
extinguishment, to arrest any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or
resisting the fire fighting effort, or any person who conducts himself in a
noisy or disorderly manner. The said officials shall be severally vested with
the usual powers and authority of Municipal Policemen to command all persons to
assist them in the performance of their duties.
§ 3-514    MUNICIPAL FIRE DEPARTMENT; FIRE INVESTIGATION.
It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to investigate or cause to be
investigated, the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in
the Municipality in which property has been destroyed or damaged in excess of
fifty ($50.00) dollars. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported, and such
officers shall especially make an investigation and report as to whether such
fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design. Such investigation
shall be begun within two (2) days of the occurrence of such fire and the State
Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation
whenever he deems it expedient or necessary. The officer making the
investigation of fires occurring within the Municipality shall immediately
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one (1) week of the occurrence
of the fire, furnish him with a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire, and such further information as he may call
for. (Ref. 81-506 RS Neb.)
§ 3-515   RESCUE UNIT; ESTABLISHMENT.
There is hereby established the St. Paul Rescue Unit to operate the City
Ambulance Service, said unit to operate as a Company of the Municipal Fire
Department. Members of said Unit shall be appointed in the same manner and
subject to the same rules as members of the Fire Department. (Ref. 23-378, 35-
514.02, 71-5101 et seq. RS Neb.)
§ 3-516   RESCUE UNIT; LICENSE.
No Municipal Ambulance may transport any patient upon any street, road, highway
or public way unless said ambulance holds a valid license issued by the
Nebraska State Department of Health. (Ref. 71-5103 thru 71-5105 RS Neb.)
§ 3-517   RESCUE UNIT; ATTENDANTS; CERTIFICATION.
All members of the Municipal Rescue Unit shall be properly certified for
competency by the Nebraska State Department of Health. (Ref. 71-5108, 71-5109
RS Neb.)
§ 3-518   RESCUE UNIT; ATTENDANTS; IMMUNE FROM LIABILITY; WHEN.
No certified ambulance attendant who provides public emergency care or rescue
service shall be liable in any civil action to respond in damages as a result
of his acts of commission or omission arising out of and in the course of his
rendering in good faith any such service. Nothing in this Section shall be
deemed to grant any such immunity for liability arising out of the operation of
any motor vehicle in connection with such service, nor shall immunity apply to
any person causing damage or injury by his willful, wanton, or grossly
negligent act of commission or omission. (Ref. 35-107, 71-5111 RS Neb.)
Article 6. Police Department
§ 3-601   POLICE DEPARTMENT; DUTIES.
The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such further
number of regular policemen as may be duly ordered by resolution of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department, its
officers and members, and shall have the custody and control of all property
and books belonging to the department. He shall devote his whole time to the
municipal affairs, interests of the Municipality, and to the preservation of
peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof. The Department shall execute and
enforce all laws and also the orders of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the
Department to protect the rights of persons and property. There shall be a
proper police force at all fires. The Department shall take notice of all
nuisances, impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues,
alleys, business places, and residences of the Municipality. The Department
shall execute, or cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause
all persons arrested to be brought before the proper court for trial as
speedily as possible. The Chief of Police and all regular and special policemen
shall become thoroughly conversant with the laws of the Municipality, and shall
see that the same are strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against
any person or persons for violation of the same.
§ 3-602   POLICE DEPARTMENT; DISCHARGE OR DISCIPLINE OF POLICE MEMBERS.
Any police officer or the City Police Chief may be disciplined, demoted or
discharged from duty by the Mayor. (Ord. No. 946,11/17/14)
§ 3-603   POLICE DEPARTMENT; APPEAL PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGED OR DISCIPLINED
POLICE OFFICERS.
In the event of discharge, demotion, or suspension, the police officer or City
Police Chief shall have the right to appeal his/her discharge or disciplinary
action to the City Council. Such appeal shall be made within thirty (30) days
of his/her discharge or disciplinary action by filing a written application for
a hearing before the Council. Such written application shall be made to the
City Clerk, and if such application is made the Clerk shall immediately notify
the Mayor of the receipt of such application. Upon notice of the filing of such
application, the Mayor shall call a special meeting of the City Council, within
twenty (20) days of receipt of the written application, to consider such
application. Both the police officer and the individuals causing such
disciplinary action or discharge shall have the right at the hearing to be
heard and to present evidence to the City Council for its consideration. Not
later than thirty (30) days following the adjournment of the meeting at which
the hearing was held, the City Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or modify
the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the City Council to act
within thirty (30) days or the failure of a majority of the elected Board
members to vote to reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall
be construed as a vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The
decision of the City Council shall be based upon its determination that, under
the facts and evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or
disciplinary action furthers the proper management and the effective operation
of the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of
the State of Nebraska. (Ord. No. 946, 11/17/14)
Article 7. Parks Department
§ 3-701    MUNICIPAL PARKS; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Parks and other recreational
areas through the Utilities Superintendent. The Governing Body, for the purpose
of defraying the cost of the care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal
Park may each year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
State law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the
said tax shall be known as the Park Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the authority to
adopt rules and regulations for the efficient management of the Municipal Parks
and other recreational areas of the Municipality subject to the supervision and
control of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-948 thru 17-952 RS Neb.)
§ 3-702   MUNICIPAL PARKS; INJURY TO PROPERTY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub. It shall be unlawful for any
person to injure or destroy any sodded or planted area, or injure or destroy
any building, structure, equipment, fence, bench, table, or any other property
of the Municipal Parks and recreational areas. No person shall commit any waste
on or litter the Municipal Parks or other public grounds.
Article 8. Swimming Pool
§ 3-801   MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Swimming Pool. The Governing
Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and
improvements of the Swimming Pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the Municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the Swimming Pool. The Swimming Pool Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities
Superintendent shall manage the Swimming Pool. The Utilities Superintendent
shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise the Swimming Pool
Manager and such employees as he may deem necessary and shall pass such rules
and regulations for the operation of the Swimming Pool as may be proper for its
efficient operation. All actions by the Utilities Superintendent shall be under
the supervision and control of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-948, 17-951, 17-952
RS Neb.)
§ 3-802   MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL; ADMISSION CHARGE.
The Governing Body may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved in
maintaining, improving, managing, and beautifying the Swimming Pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the Municipal Swimming
Pool. The said charges shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk
and shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the Municipal Swimming Pool
for public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a
reasonable manner; Provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit
or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color, or national origin
in the classification of persons for admission charges. (Ref. 17-949 RS Neb.)
Article 9. Library
§ 3-901   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Library through the Library
Board. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
management, purchases, improvements, and maintenance of the Library may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
Municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall
be known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests, or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Municipal Library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the
librarian and to hire such other employees as they may deem necessary and may
pass such other rules and regulations for the operation of the Library as may
be proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under
the supervision and control of the Governing Body. (Ref. 51-201, 51-202, 51-211
RS Neb.)
§ 3-902   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOKS.
The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange, or disposal of any surplus,
damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books in the Library. Records shall
be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete, or duplicate books
so disposed of. (Ref. 51-207 RS Neb.)
§ 3-903   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the Municipal Library for the preservation and efficient management thereof.
They shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
injury to the Library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, or for failure
to return a book. All fees, penalties, and forfeitures may be collected in
civil action in the event of failure, neglect, or refusal to pay the said
assessments. (Ref. 51-205, 51-214 RS Neb.)
§ 3-904   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the Library shall
forfeit and pay to the Library not less than the value of the book in addition
to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may assess. (Ref.
51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-905   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; BOOK REMOVAL.
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made by
the Library Board to take a book from the Library, without the consent of the
Librarian, or an authorized employee of the Library. Any person removing a book
from the Library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ref. 51-211 RS Neb.)
§ 3-906   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; COST OF USE.
The Municipal Library shall be free for the use of the inhabitants of the
Municipality. The Librarian may exclude from the use of the Library and reading
rooms any person who shall willfully violate or refuse to comply with the rules
and regulations established for the government thereof. (Ref. 51-201, 51-212 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-907   MUNICIPAL LIBRARY; MONEY COLLECTED.
Any money collected by the Library shall be turned over monthly by the
Librarian to the Municipal Treasurer along with a report of the sources of the
revenue. (Ref. 51-209 RS Neb.)
Article 10. Cemetery
§ 3-1001   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and manages the Municipal Cemetery. The Governing Body,
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management, maintenance, and
beautification of the Cemetery may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the Municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Cemetery Fund and
shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, money, stocks,
bonds, or other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate
from any source for the purpose of endowing the Cemetery. The Cemetery Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. (Ref. 12-301
thru 12-403 RS Neb.)
§ 3-1002   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; ADOPTING PLAT.
The Plat known as the Plat of Elmwood Cemetery, also referred to as St. Paul
Cemetery prepared by Robert T. Paul and filed in the County Clerk's office of
Howard County, Nebraska on the third (3rd) day of June, 1970, is hereby
declared to be the official Plat of the Elmwood Cemetery and hereafter the
Cemetery shall continue to be known as the Elmwood Cemetery.
§ 3-1003   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; MANNER IN DETERMINING PRICES FOR LOTS AND BURIAL
SPACES.
There shall be and hereby is established a uniform method of pricing all lots
located and created within the Elmwood Cemetery and all sections and additions
thereto, including any addition therein hereafter established. The prices for
any and all lots shall be fixed and determined by the number of burial spaces
located and provided in any and all of said lots.
§ 3-1004   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; PRICES OF BURIAL SPACES.
There is hereby established a price upon burial spaces and that hereafter no
space shall be sold to any person for a greater or less sum than hereafter set
forth to-wit:
   All Burial Spaces for Residents of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, fifty
($50.00) dollars each.
   All Burial Spaces for Non-Residents of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska,
seventy-five ($75.00) dollars each.
§ 3-1005   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; RESTRICTIONS AS TO VAULTS.
Hereafter no burial vault shall be located or placed in the Elmwood Cemetery
unless the same be a permanent vault of steel or reinforced concrete and of the
type that shall be buried underneath the surface of the ground; except in the
case where a mausoleum type vault has already been located or placed on a grave
and an adjoining lot or lots already owned by a person or persons who caused
the original mausoleum type vault to be so located or placed, then in that
instance permission may be granted to locate or place such mausoleum type vault
on such said lot or lots. (Ref. 17-943 RS Neb.)
§ 3-1006   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; UNLAWFUL ACTS.
It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in the
Elmwood Cemetery of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska to:
   1. Place any cement work of any kind upon any such lot or block in such
Cemetery except a cement walk in connection with the siting of monuments,
markers, or headstones that are not prohibited by this Article, and any such
cement work not prohibited shall be done only under the supervision of the City
of St. Paul, Nebraska and its officers or employees,
   2. To interfere or attempt to stop the removal of any articles, thing,
improvement, tree, or shrub now or hereafter placed upon any such lot or block
or part thereof, which the City of St. Paul, Nebraska or its officers or
employees desire to remove and which presents or is a nuisance or interferes
with the proper maintenance of the Cemetery, and
   3. To refuse or fail to place or set any monument, headstones or other
markers in or upon any lot or block in such Cemetery, without provisions for a
wash or upon the part of such lot or block indicated or directed by the City of
St. Paul, Nebraska or its cemetery employees, except that trees, bushes,
flowers, grass or other plants upon any lots, parts of lots, blocks, or parts
of blocks in said Cemetery may be planted and cared for so long as such trees,
bushes, flowers, grass or other plants do not interfere with the operation and
maintenance of the Cemetery.
(Ref. 17-942, 17-943 RS Neb.)
§ 3-1007   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; IMPROVEMENTS.
The Mayor and Council of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska may survey, plat, map,
grade, fence, ornament, and otherwise improve all burial and cemetery grounds
and avenues leading thereto the Elmwood Cemetery. They may construct walks and
protect ornamental trees therein, and provide for the paying of expenses
thereof.
§ 3-1008   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; TAX FOR IMPROVING, ADORNING, PROTECTING, AND
CARING FOR.
The Mayor and City Council of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, at the time and
in the manner provided by law for the levying of taxes, are hereby empowered to
levy a tax not to exceed one (1) mill on the dollar upon the assessed value of
all the taxable property in the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, except intangible
property, for any one (1) year for improving, adorning, protecting and caring
for the Elmwood Cemetery.
§ 3-1009   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; PROVISIONS FOR PERPETUAL CARE.
Perpetual care shall be furnished on all lots in the Elmwood Cemetery,
including lots previously sold by the St. Paul Cemetery Association. On the
lots sold prior to the passing of this Article, fences, shrubs and trees may be
removed by the said City of St. Paul in the course of years when the same
become unsightly or a nuisance.
§ 3-1010   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; LOTS PREVIOUSLY CONVEYED SHALL NOT BE CHANGED.
All lots previously conveyed by the St. Paul Cemetery Association shall in no
manner be affected by this Article as to the ownership of such said lots but
shall otherwise be subject to all the provisions of this Article.
§ 3-1011   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; METHOD OF CONVEYANCE AND RECORDING.
The Mayor and Council of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska shall convey such
cemetery lots by certificate signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the
Clerk, under the seal of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, specifying that the
person to whom the same is issued is the owner of the lot or lots described
therein by number laid down on the aforementioned Plat, for the purpose of
interment; and such certificate shall vest in the proprietor, his or her heirs
and assigns, a right in fee simple to such lot for the sole purpose of
interment, under the regulation of the City Council of the City of St. Paul,
Nebraska. Such certificate shall be entitled to be recorded in the office of
the County Clerk of Howard County, Nebraska without further acknowledgment, and
such description of lots shall be deemed and recognized as a sufficient
description thereof.
§ 3-1012   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; PAYMENT OF LOT OR LOTS AND THE RECORDING FEES.
Before any such Certificate shall be issued, the purchaser shall pay to the
City Clerk the purchase price of the lot or lots, and in addition to the
purchase price of the lot or lots, sufficient money to record the Certificate
in the Office of the County Clerk of Howard County, Nebraska; that such money
shall be placed in the Cemetery Fund of the said City of St. Paul, Nebraska and
the recording fees for the recording of such Certificate shall be paid out of
such said fund.
§ 3-1013   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; SEXTON AND HIS AUTHORITY.
The sexton of the Elmwood Cemetery, his employees, or other officers or
employees, or other officers or employees of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska are
authorized, ordered or permitted by the remaining sections of this Article.
§ 3-1014   MUNICIPAL CEMETERY; BURIAL PERMIT.
All persons desiring to bury a deceased person shall first be required to file
a completed death certificate with the Registrar of the County before any body
may be buried in the Municipal Cemetery. If it is impossible to complete the
certificate of death within the legal period of time prescribed by State law,
the funeral director shall notify the Registrar and obtain his written approval
before the deceased person may be buried in the Municipal Cemetery. The burial
permit so issued by the Registrar shall then be filed with the Municipal Clerk.
It shall be unlawful for the Sexton, or other person, to allow the interment of
a body without first receiving such permit. The burial permit shall then be
countersigned and dated by the Sexton. The interment of any body shall be
performed under the direct supervision of a licensed funeral director. The
applicant shall also file with the burial permit an application containing the
name, age, sex, race, and cause of death of the deceased person for the records
of the Cemetery Board. Upon completion of the requirements herein, the
Municipal Clerk shall then issue a Municipal Burial Permit which shall entitle
the applicant to bury a deceased person in the Municipal Cemetery. In the event
that the removal of the body of any deceased person is requested the Municipal
Clerk shall issue no permit until the applicant shall have first complied with
the laws of the State of Nebraska with respect to such disinterment. (Ref. 71-
605 RS Neb.)
§ 3-1015   CEMETERY; FIRST ADDITION.
The Plat to Elmwood Cemetery to the following described real estate as owned by
the City of St. Paul, which plat has been filed with the Mayor and City Council
of St. Paul, Nebraska and located in the West Half of the Northeast Quarter
(W1/2NE1/4) of Section Nine (9), Township Fourteen (14) North, Range 10 West of
the 6th P.M. in Howard County, Nebraska and more accurately described as
follows, to-wit:
Commencing at the South 1/16 Corner of the Northeast 1/4 of said Section 9
which is at the Southeast Corner of ELMWOOD CEMETERY thence north along the
North-South 1/16 line in the Northeast 1/4 a distance of 611.0 feet to the
Northeast Corner of ELMWOOD CEMETERY and the POINT OF BEGINNING, thence
continuing North along said 1/16 line a distance of 724.8 feet, thence West
normal to said 1/16 line a distance of 768.0 feet, thence South parallel to
said 1/16 line a distance of 722.94 feet, to a point on the North line of
ELMWOOD CEMETERY, thence East along said north line a distance of 768.0 feet to
the POINT OF BEGINNING and containing 12.76 Acres more or less should be and
hereby is accepted and approved.
   The Plat of the heretofore described real estate which has been filed with
the Mayor and City Council shall be known as First Addition to Elmwood
Cemetery, St. Paul, Nebraska.
    A certified copy of this Ordinance together with a certified copy of the
Plat shall be filed with the County Clerk of Howard County, Nebraska. (Ord. No.
604, 5/2/88)
Article 11. Municipal Dump
§ 3-1101   MUNICIPAL DUMPING GROUNDS; OPERATION AND FUNDING.
The Municipality owns and operates the Municipal Dumping Grounds through the
Dump Operator. The Governing Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
care, management, and maintenance of the Municipal Dumping Grounds may each
year levy a tax not to exceed the maximum limit prescribed by State law, on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be
known as the Dump Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Municipal
Treasurer. The Dump Operator shall have the direct management and control of
the Municipal Dump and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his position.
The Dump Operator shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for
the sanitary and efficient management of the Dumping Grounds subject to the
supervision and review of the Governing Body. (Ref. 19-2101 thru 19-2106 RS
Neb.)
§ 3-1102   MUNICIPAL DUMPING GROUNDS; RESTRICTED USE.
It shall hereafter be unlawful to dispose of any items in the Municipal Dump
except for the following:
   1.   Trees
   2.   Leaves
   3.   Wood and Wood Products
   4.   Concrete
   5.   Sheetrock
   6.   Any other non-organic and nonputrescible materials excluding metal
products.
(Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
Article 12. Penal Provision
§ 3-1201   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
Chapter 4
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Article 1. General Provisions
§ 4-101   HEALTH; REGULATIONS.
For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
Municipality, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules
and regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe
such penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
(Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 4-102   HEALTH; ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
The Municipal Police Chief, as the Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief
health officer of the Municipality. It shall be his duty to notify the
Governing Body and the Board of Health of health nuisances within the
Municipality and its zoning jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-121 RS Neb.)
§ 4-103   HEALTH; STATE RULES.
The "Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health," Department of Health of
the State of Nebraska are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are
applicable to the Municipality, in their present form and as they may hereafter
be amended. One (1) copy of each of the said pamphlets is filed at the office
of the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-902 RS Neb.)
§ 4-104   HEALTH; COUNTY HEALTH BOARD.
It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the
Municipality.
Article 2. Garbage Disposal
§ 4-201   GARBAGE; DEFINED.
The term "garbage" as used herein shall be defined to mean kitchen refuse,
decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may decompose and become
offensive to the public health.
§ 4-202   RUBBISH; DEFINED.
The terms "rubbish" or "trash" as used herein shall be defined as discarded
machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead trees, branches, bottles, broken
glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags, or any other litter or debris
that is not an immediate hazard to the health of the residents of the
Municipality.
§ 4-203   ASHES; DEFINED.
The term "ashes" as used herein shall be defined to mean the residue resulting
from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible material.
§ 4-204   REFUSE; DEFINED.
The term "refuse" as used herein shall be defined to mean all solid wastes,
except body wastes, and shall include garbage, ashes, and rubbish.
§ 4-205   STORAGE PRACTICES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on, or about any dwelling,
building, or premises, or any other place in the Municipality, rubbish,
garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious to the public
health or offensive to the residents of the Municipality unless the following
preparation procedures are followed:
   1.   All refuse shall be drained free of liquids before disposal.
   2.   Garbage shall be wrapped in paper or similar material.
   3.   All cans, bottles, or other food containers shall be rinsed free of
food particles and drained before disposal.
   4.   Rubbish shall be placed in approved containers, or cut and baled, tied,
bundles, stacks or packaged so as not to exceed thirty-six (36") inches in
length and fifty (50) pounds in weight.
It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks, or
other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste, or
rubbish of any kind. (Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 4-206   REFUSE CONTAINERS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any dwelling,
building, or premises, or any other place in the Municipality, refuse matter of
any kind unless the same is kept in containers meeting the following
requirements except as provided in section 4-205:
   1.   Refuse containers shall be made of durable, watertight, rust-resistant
material having a close-fitting lid and handles to facilitate collection.
   2.   Refuse containers for residences shall be of not less than ten (10)
gallons, nor more than thirty-two (32) gallons in capacity. Containers for
commercial establishments shall not exceed forty (40) gallons in capacity.
It shall be unlawful to permit the accumulation or residue of liquids, solids
or a combination of such material on the bottom or sides of containers, it
being the intention of this provision that the interior of containers shall be
kept clean by thorough rinsing and draining as often as necessary. (Ref. 19-
2106 RS Neb.)
§ 4-207   COLLECTION PRACTICES.
Refuse containers shall, for the purpose of collection, be placed at ground
level, and be made readily accessible to the collector. They shall be placed on
the side of the street from which collection is to be made; Provided,
householders, commercial establishments or other persons, may, by contract, be
permitted to place containers at agreed places upon their premises. (Ref. 19-
2106 RS Neb.)
§ 4-208   DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
It shall be unlawful to dump, burn, bury, destroy, or otherwise dispose of
refuse within the corporate limits of the Municipality, except at the
Municipality's approved refuse disposal site located on a tract of land in the
Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (NE 1/4 SE 1/4) of Section Twenty-
one (21) and in the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NE 1/4 SE 1/4)
of Section Twenty-two (22), all in Township Fifteen (15), North, Range Ten
(10), west of the 6th Principal Meridian, in Howard County, Nebraska, more
specifically described by metes and bounds in one certain warranty deed from C.
L. Christensen to the City of St. Paul, Howard County, Nebraska, dated
Novemeber 7th, 1969, and containing 11.11 acres in the Northeast Quarter of the
Southeast Quarter (NE 1/4 SE 1/4) of said Section Twenty-one (21) and 17.65
acres in the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NE 1/4 SE 1/4) of said
Section Twenty-two (22), or a total of 28.76 acres, more or less, according to
the recorded plat thereof. (Ref. 19-2101, 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 4-209   RATES; REFUSE DISPOSAL AREA.
The rates charged by the City of St. Paul, Nebraska for the use of the Refuse
Disposal Area shall be as follows:
   1.   Two dollars ($2.00) per month for each resident user, which amount
shall be charged and billed to each resident user on his residential utility
bill for each calendar month or in the case of a multiple family unit the rate
shall be two dollars ($2.00) per single family unit in any multiple family
housing unit.
   2.   Three dollars ($3.00) per month for each commercial user which amount
shall be charged and billed to each commercial user on its commercial utility
bill for each calendar month.
   3.   Non-resident users shall be charged as follows:
      (a)   Each pick-up load for a non-resident will be the sum of ten dollars
($10.00).
      (b)   A non-resident annual landfill permit fee will be the sum of forty-
eight dollars ($48.00).
      (c)   Non-resident commercial users shall be charged the sum of twenty
dollars ($20.00 per load.
      (d)   The charges set forth in subsections 3.(a), (b) and (c) shall be
paid to the person in charge of the Office of the City of St. Paul. (Ord. No.
616, 12/4/89) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 643, 5/4/92; 716, 2/2/98; 995, 8/6/18)
Article 3. Nuisances
§ 4-301   NUISANCES; PROHIBITED FENCES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
such fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley. (Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321,
39-705 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-302   NUISANCES; DEFINITION.
   (1)    General definition. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition or thing either:
      (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (b)   Offends decency;
      (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the City;
      (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (2)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things are hereby declared to be nuisances.
      (a)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (b)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (c)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (d)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the City;
      (e)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher's trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the City, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (f)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, broken stone or cement, broken crockery, broken glass,
broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the same be kept in
covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (g)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw, or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin, or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (h)   Any unsightly building, billboard, or other structure, or any old,
abandoned, or partially destroyed building or structure, or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings, billboards, or other
structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or safety,
or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the vicinity
thereof;
      (i)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (j)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (k)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens,
or any other place, building, or enclosure, in which animals or fowl of any
kind are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the City or are maintained and
kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (l)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Ord. No. 1029, 8/1/22)
§ 4-303   NUISANCES; ABATEMENT PROCEDURE. 
   (1)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or zoning jurisdiction of the City shall keep such real estate free of
nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are otherwise
provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to abatement of nuisances.
   (2)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice
of the right to a hearing before the City Council and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the nuisance is
to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition as found by
the Board of Health or designated official and state that the condition has
been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (3)   If within five (5) days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work completed to abate
nuisance upon the decision by the Board of Health or the designated officer and
City Council.
   (4)   If within five (5) days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the City Council, the Council shall fix a time and place at which
a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Council to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a
nuisance and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven (7) nor
more than fourteen (14) days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date
fixed for the hearing and pursuant to the notice, the Council shall hear all
objections made by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by
the Board of Health or designated official. If after consideration of all the
evidence, the City Council finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall, by
resolution, order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at
once. If the owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the
order to abate and remove the nuisance, the Council may have such work done.
   (5)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two (2) months after such work is done, the city may either:
      (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements
are levied and assessed; or
      (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(Ref. 17-563, 17-1001, 18-1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 1029, 8/1/22)
§ 4-304   NUISANCES; DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (1)   (a)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the City.
      (b)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to
a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of such
notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request
a hearing or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance,
the City may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion of
the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are
levied or assessed.
   (2)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the City. The provisions in division (1)(b) shall apply to
such nuisances. For the purpose of cairying out the provisions of this section,
the City police shall have the authority to enter upon private property to
inspect the trees thereon.
(Ref. 17-555 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 1029, 8/1/22)
§ 4-305   NUISANCES; WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (1)   Lots or pieces of ground within the City shall be drained or filled so
as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (2)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the City
shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free
of any growth of twelve (12) inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or
worthless vegetation.
   (3)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the City is prohibited.
   (4)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of twelve (12) inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the City or on the adjoining
streets or alleys, or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain
thereon except in proper receptacles.
   (5)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (6)   (a)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each
owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. If notice by personal service or certified mail is
unsuccessful, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City or by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or
ground upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. Within five (5)
days after receipt of such notice or publication or posting, whichever is
applicable, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not
request a hearing with the City or fails to comply with the order to abate and
remove the nuisance, the City may have such work done.
      (b)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two (2) months after such work is done, the City may either:
         1.   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
         2.   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (7)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes but is not limited to:
         1.   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         2.   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         3.   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         4.   Offal and dead animals; and
         5.   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Include, but are not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Ref. 17-563 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1029, 8/1/22)
§ 4-306   NUISANCES; GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (1)   The owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or zoning jurisdiction of the City shall remove garbage or
refuse found upon the lot or land or upon the streets, roads, or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (2)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner's duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the City through its proper offices shall, in addition to
other proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed,
from the lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
   (3)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the City shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within forty-eight (48) hours after notice by
personal service or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with
division (2) of this section if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (4)   Whenever the City removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against
the lot or land. The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the
owner. If unpaid for two (2) months after such work is done, the City may
either:
      (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefitted in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
(Ref. 18-1752 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 1029, 8/1/22)
§ 4-307   RESERVED.
§ 4-308   RESERVED.
§ 4-309   RESERVED.
§ 4-310   NUISANCES; DUTY.
It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of real
estate in the City, to keep such real estate free of public nuisances. All or
any part of said premises found, as provided herein, to constitute a public
nuisance shall be abated by rehabilitation, demolition or repair pursuant to
procedures set forth herein. (Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 835,
5/21/07)
§ 4-311   NUISANCES; NON-EXCLUSIVE PROCEDURE.
The procedure set forth in this Article for abatement of a nuisance is non-
exclusive and is in addition to any other procedure for abatement which is set
forth in the municipal code or state statutes. (Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720
RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-312   NUISANCES; DECLARATION.
When the Code Enforcement Officer or Chief of Police declares or finds that any
premises within the City zoning jurisdiction may be maintained contrary to one
or more of the provisions of sections 4-301 to 4-327 he shall cause a notice to
the owner, occupant, lessee, and/or mortgagee of the premises. The notice shall
state the conditions which constitute the public nuisance and shall order the
abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days after the date of notice, and
shall be substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF NUISANCE
   TO:    (OWNER, OCCUPANT, LESSEE, MORTGAGEE)
    (ADDRESSES)
   Pursuant to Section 4-312 of the Municipal Code of the City of St. Paul,
Nebraska, the following premise in the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, known as
_______________________________ and more particularly described as follows:
   (Legal description)
is being maintained as a public nuisance contrary to Sections 4-301 to 4-327 of
the Municipal Code of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska. The conditions which
constitute the public nuisance upon the above-described real estate are as
follows:
   You shall have ten (10) days from the date of this notice to abate said
above described Nuisance.
   Dated: _________, 20__
   CITY OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
                     By:________________________     
   CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
   The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing Notice of
Nuisance was served by personal delivery or by certified U.S. Mail, postage
prepaid, on the ____ day of ________, 20___ to the individuals at their
respective addresses, as noted above.
   CITY OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
                     By:________________________   
cc:   City Council
(Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-313   NUISANCES; FORM OF PROPER SERVICE OF NOTICE.
Service of said notice shall be by personal service from a police officer or by
depositing a copy of said notice in the United States Postal Service enclosed
in a sealed envelope and with postage thereon fully prepaid. Said mail shall be
certified and addressed to said owner, occupant, lessee, and/or mortgagee at
the last known address of said parties as disclosed by the current tax rolls,
and if there is no known address, then in care of the property address. Service
is complete at the time of such deposit. Owner as used herein shall mean any
person in possession and also any person having or claiming to have any legal
or equitable interest in said premises. The failure of any person to receive
such notice shall not affect the validity of the proceedings hereunder. (Ref.
17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-314   NUISANCES; AFFECT OF FAILURE TO ABATE.
If the nuisance is not abated within the period given in the notice, the City
Council may determine to proceed. When, upon motion, it determines to proceed,
the City Council shall give a second notice in the same manner set forth in
section 4-313. The second notice shall establish a date, time and place at
which all interested parties may appear before the City Council or such other
person as the City Council specifies in the notice and present evidence to
determine whether the premises constitute a public nuisance, and if determined
to constitute a public nuisance, to be abated. Any interested party may appeal
such decision of the City Council to the appropriate court for adjudication,
during which proceedings, the decision of the City Council shall be stayed. The
notice shall be substantially in the following form:
NOTICE OF HEARING TO BE DETERMINED
EXISTENCE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE AND
TO ABATE IN WHOLE OR IN PART
TO:
   Notice is hereby given that on the ___ day of ________, 20___, the City
Council of the City of St. Paul passed a motion declaring its intent to
ascertain whether certain premises situated in the City of St. Paul, State of
Nebraska, known and designated as (street address) in said City and more
particularly described as follows:
   (Legal description)
constitute a public nuisance subject to abatement. Hearing upon said Motion to
determine whether the above noted premises constitute a public nuisance shall
be on the ____ day of ________, 20__, at ____________o'clock a.m./p.m., before
the City Council in the Council Chamber, City Hall, St. Paul, Nebraska, at
which time the City Council shall hear all evidence from any interested party
pertaining to the above noted issue. If said premises in whole or part, are
found to constitute a public nuisance, as defined by Sections 4-308 to 4-309 of
the St. Paul Municipal Code and if the same are not promptly abated, the
Municipal Authorities shall abate the same and the cost of abatement shall be
assessed upon such premises and such costs shall constitute a lien upon such
land until paid.
   Said alleged violations consist of the following:
   Dated: ________, 20__
   CITY OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
                     By: _________________________
                           City Clerk
   CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
   The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing Notice was
mailed by registered or certified U.S. Mail, postage prepaid, on this ____day
of ______, 20__, to the following:
   CITY OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
                     By: _________________________
                           City Clerk
(Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-315   NUISANCES; HEARING.
At the time fixed in the Notice, the City Council or other persons specified to
hear the matter shall hear the testimony of all competent persons desiring to
testify respecting the condition constituting the nuisance, including the
estimated cost of abatement and other matters which may be pertinent. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall, by resolution, declare its
findings. If the City Council so concludes, it may declare the condition
existing to be a nuisance and direct the person owning the property upon which
the nuisance exists to abate it within a reasonable time after the date of
posting on the premises a notice of the adoption of the resolution, and sending
notice as set forth herein. Said notice shall be substantially in the following
form:
   NOTICE OF ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION NO. _____
TO:
   YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT ON _______________, 20__, the City Council of
the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, by Resolution No. _____, after notice and
hearing as specified in said Resolution, did determine that the following
constitute a public nuisance, to-wit:
Upon the following described real estate, to-wit:
   You are granted ______days from the date of this Notice to abate said
nuisance. Failure to abate said nuisance shall result in said nuisance being
abated by the City of St. Paul and the cost of abatement shall be assessed upon
said premises and constitute a lien upon said premises until paid.
   Dated: _______, 20___
   CITY OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
                     By: _________________________
                           City Clerk
   CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
   The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing Notice was
posted on the premises afore-described and mailed by certified U.S. Mail,
postage prepaid, on this _____day of ________, 20___, to the following:
   CITY OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
                     By: _________________________
                           City Clerk
(Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-316   NUISANCES; EXTENSION OF TIME.
The City Council may grant an extension of time to abate the nuisance if, in
its opinion, good cause for an extension exists. (Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-
1720 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-317   NUISANCES; ABATEMENT BY CITY.
If the person fails to abate the nuisance within the time set forth, the City
may proceed to abate the nuisance. (Ref 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1740 RS Neb.)   
(Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-318   NUISANCES; RECORD OF EXPENSES.
The City shall keep an itemized account of the expenses involved in abating the
nuisance. The City shall post conspicuously on the property and it shall also
mail to the owner of the property a statement showing the expense of the
abatement, together with a notice of the time and place when the statement will
be submitted to the City Council for approval and confirmation and at which
time the City Council may consider the objections and protests to the cost of
the work. Said notice shall be substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF HEARING ON EXPENSE
   OF ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE
TO:
   Pursuant to Section 4-318 of the Municipal Code of the City of St. Paul,
Nebraska, you are hereby notified that the following is a statement showing the
expense incurred by the City of St. Paul in abating a nuisance upon the
following-described real-estate, to-wit:
   (Legal Description)
   Said expenses are as follows:
   You are further notified that said Statement of Expenses shall be submitted
to the City Council for consideration on the ___ day of ______, 20__, at
_______ o'clock a.m./p.m. St. Paul, Nebraska, at which time you may appear to
object or protest the expense incurred in the abatement of said nuisance.
   CITY OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
                     By:__________________________
                            City Clerk
   CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
   The undersigned hereby certifies that a copy of the foregoing Notice was
posted on the premises afore-described and mailed by Certified U.S. Mail,
postage prepaid, this ____ day of ___________, 20___, to the following:
   CITY OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
                     By: _________________________
                              City Clerk
(Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-319   NUISANCES; HEARING ON STATEMENT OF EXPENSES.
At the time fixed for hearing on the statement of expenses, the City Council
shall consider the statement and any protest or objections raised by the
persons liable to be assessed for the costs of the abatement. The City Council
may revise, correct, or modify the statement as it considers just and
thereafter shall confirm the statement by motion or resolution. The decision of
the City Council on all protests and objections which may be made shall be
final and conclusive. The procedure governing the hearing shall be as provided
by section 4-315.  (Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 835, 5/
21/07)
§ 4-320   NUISANCES; EXPENSES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AGAINST THE PROPERTY.
If the property owner does not pay the expense of abating the nuisance within
five (5) days after the City Council confirms the cost of abatement, the costs
shall become a special assessment against the real estate upon which the
nuisance was abated. The assessment shall continue until it is paid, together
with interest as set by the applicable statutes of the State of Nebraska. (Ref.
17-123.01 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-321   NUISANCES; NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
The City shall file in the offices of the County Register of Deeds and County
Treasurer a certificate substantially in the following form:
   NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
   Under the authority of the St. Paul Municipal Code, the City did on
__________, 20___, abate a nuisance upon the real estate hereinafter described
and then on ___________, 20___, did assess the cost of the abatement upon the
real estate. The City of St. Paul claims a special assessment on the real
estate for the expense of doing the work in the amount of $_______. This amount
is a special assessment against the real estate until it is paid, with interest
as set by the applicable statutes of the State of Nebraska, until discharged of
record. The real estate referred to above, and upon which the special
assessment is claimed is that certain parcel of land situated within the City
of St. Paul, County of Howard, State of Nebraska and more particularly
described as follows:
   Dated: _______, 20___
   CITY OF ST. PAUL, NEBRASKA
                     By: _________________________
                           City Clerk
(Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-322   NUISANCES; ALTERNATIVES.
Nothing in the foregoing sections shall be deemed to prevent the City Council
from ordering the City Attorney to commence a civil and/or criminal proceeding
to abate a public nuisance under applicable civil or penal code provisions as
an alternative to the proceedings set forth herein. (Ref. 17-123, 17-123.01,
18-1720 RS Neb.)  (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-323   NUISANCES; PROCEDURE IN CASE OF EMERGENCY.
When the conditions which constitute the nuisance pose an immediate threat to
the public peace, health or safety, the City Council may order the nuisance
abated immediately or take steps itself to abate the nuisance after adoption of
a resolution declaring the facts which constitute the emergency. The resolution
to be effective shall be adopted by three-fourths (3/4) vote of the City
Council. (Ref. 17-121, 17-123, 17-123.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/
07)
§ 4-324   NUISANCES; SEVERABILITY.
The City Council of the City of St. Paul hereby declares that should any
section, paragraph, sentence or word of this Article hereby adopted be declared
for any reason to be invalid, it is the intent of the Council that it would
have passed all other portions of this Article independent of the elimination
here from of any such portion as may be declared invalid. (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/
07)
§ 4-325   NUISANCES; ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
In cases of appeal from an action of the Governing Body condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
Municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial. (Ref. 19-710 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-326   NUISANCES; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply. (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
§ 4-327   NUISANCES; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Chapter, the City may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 835, 5/21/07)
Article 4. Penal Provisions
§ 4-401   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person or any person's agent or servant, who shall violate any of the
provisions of this municipal code, unless otherwise specifically provided
herein, shall be deemed guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined in any sum not exceeding five hundred ($500.00) dollars. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-four (24) hours
of failure to comply with the provisions of this code. (Amended by Ord. No.
742, 5/15/00)
§ 4-402   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the Municipality
may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS Neb.)
(Amended by Ord. No. 742, 5/15/00)
Chapter 5
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Article 1. Municipal Traffic Regulations
§ 5-101   DEFINITIONS.
The words and phrases used in this Chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Chapter 39 of the
Reissued Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943, as now existing or hereafter
amended. If not defined in the designated statute, the word or phrase shall
have its common meaning. (Ref. 39-602 RS Neb.)
§ 5-102   BUSINESS DISTRICT.
The term "business district" shall include that portion of the Municipality
embraced within, and the area of public streets enumerated as follows:
"Howard Street from Second Street to Taylor Street"
§ 5-103   TRUCK ROUTES.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
Municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks, unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares, or merchandise, and in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through, or about the Municipality. The Governing
Body shall cause notices to be posted, or shall erect signs indicating the
streets so designated as truck routes. (Ref. 39-6,189 RS Neb.)
§ 5-104   CROSSWALKS.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers, or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street, and at such
other places as they may deem necessary. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-105   SIGNS, SIGNALS.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs,
or other signs, signals, standards, or mechanical devices in any street or
alley under the Municipality's jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, or
prohibiting traffic thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the
street or alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the
regulation or prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or
mechanical device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or
prohibition shall be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail,
neglect, or refuse to comply with such regulation, or prohibition. (Ref. 39-609
through 39-611, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-106   TURNING; "U" TURNS.
No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction, except
at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the
opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal is in
operation, or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited.
(Ref. 39-651, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-107   TURNING; HAND SIGNALS.
A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given continuously during
not less than the last one hundred (100') feet traveled by the vehicle before
turning. The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm, or by a signal device of a type approved by the Department of Roads.
The hand and arm signals herein required shall be given from the left side of
the vehicle in the following manner: STOP or decreased speed, hand and arm
extended downward; LEFT TURN, hand and arm extended horizontally; RIGHT TURN,
hand and arm extended upward. (Ref. 39-652 through 39-654 RS Neb.)
§ 5-108   TURNING; GENERALLY.
Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach such
intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the
two (2) streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes
of this section, the center of the intersection shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another. (Ref. 39-650 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-109   TURNING; CAUTIOUS.
The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning, or changing the
course of such vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make such
movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by such movement, the
operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and whenever
the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement, he shall
give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all other vehicles of his
intention to make such movement. (Ref. 39-644, 39-652, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-110   RIGHT-OF-WAY.
When two (2) vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately the
same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way
to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and there
is danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a Municipal Policeman
stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the
left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-
of-way to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked
crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where
the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a Municipal street
from a private road, or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on such streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield
the right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated
upon official business and the drivers thereof make proper use of visual or
audible signals. (Ref. 39-635 through 39-643 RS Neb.)
§ 5-111   RIGHT-OF-WAY; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
Upon the approach of any authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within one
(1) block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop, except
at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, in which event, such
vehicle shall drive clear of the street intersection and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right hand curb as possible and remain there until such
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, said vehicles
are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of proper
visual or audible signals. (Ref. 39-640 RS Neb.)
§ 5-112   LITTERING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street, or alley, except at places designated by the
Governing Body, any rubbish, debris, or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering. (Ref. 39-683 RS Neb.)
§ 5-113   GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
No person shall throw, cast, lay, or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass, or other articles made of, or containing,
glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass, or the person responsible
for such breakage, shall at once remove, or cause the same to be removed, from
the street. (Ref. 39-683 RS Neb.)
§ 5-114   SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal. (Ref. 39-619 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-115   QUIET ZONES; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
All streets, or portions thereof, lying within three hundred (300') feet of any
hospital, nursing home, or school, and which have been declared to be "quiet
zones" by the Governing Body shall be respected as such by all drivers, and no
driver of any vehicle shall within such zones, make any unnecessary noise or
sound the horn, or other warning device, of such vehicle except in an
emergency. It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of said Municipality
to make, or cause to be made, any unnecessary noise with any signal device, or
to use the same except as a road signal. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-116   SPEED LIMITS.
No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place at
a rate of speed greater than twenty-five (25) miles per hour within the
residential district, and twenty (20) miles per hour within the business
district, unless a different rate of speed is specifically permitted by
ordinance. In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Where a
different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Ref. 39-662, 39-663 RS Neb.)
§ 5-117   SPEED, NEAR SCHOOLS.
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises on
which school buildings are located, and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess, or while children are going to, or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in excess
of twenty- five (25) miles per hour past such premises, and such driver shall
stop at all stop signs located at, or near, such school premises, and it shall
be unlawful for such driver to make a U-turn at any intersection where such
stop signs are located at, or near, such school premise. (Ref. 39-663 RS Neb.)
§ 5-118   SPEED; ELECTRONIC DETECTION.
Determinations made regarding the speed of any motor vehicle based upon the
visual observation of any law enforcement officer may be corroborated by the
use of radio microwaves or other electronic device. The results of such radio
microwave or other electronic speed measurement may be accepted as competent
evidence of the speed of such motor vehicle in any court or legal proceeding
when the speed of the vehicle is at issue. Before the Municipality may offer in
evidence the results of such radio microwave or other electronic speed
measurement for the purpose of establishing the speed of any motor vehicle, the
Municipality shall prove the following:
   A.   The measuring device was in proper working order at the time of
conducting the measurement;
   B.   The measuring device was being operated in such a manner and under such
conditions so as to allow a minimum possibility of distortion or outside
interference;
   C.   The person operating such device and interpreting such measurement was
qualified by training and experience to properly test and operate the device;
and
   D.   The operator conducted external tests of accuracy upon the measuring
device, within a reasonable time both prior to and subsequent to an arrest
being made, and the measuring device was found to be in proper working order.
§ 5-119   CARELESS DRIVING.
Any person who operates a motor vehicle carelessly or without due caution so as
to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of careless driving.
§ 5-120   NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a want
of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use under
like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving. (Ref. 39-669.26
RS Neb.)
§ 5-121   BACKING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the Municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway, or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one half (1½) lengths of the vehicle.
(Ref. 39-675, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-122   UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street or
alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Ref. 39-672, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-123   PASSING; INTERSECTIONS.
The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction, while traversing a street intersection, if such passing
requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the left of the center of the
street. (Ref. 39-625 RS Neb.)
§ 5-124   DRIVING ABREAST.
Two (2) or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing, or
when traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, motorcycles may be
driven no more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. (Ref. 39-628, 39-694 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-125   FOLLOWING; DISTANCE.
The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is
reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of the vehicles, and the
traffic and condition of the street.  (Ref. 39-629 RS Neb.)
§ 5-126   FOLLOWING; FIRE APPARATUS.
The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred (500') feet, or drive into,
or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm. (Ref. 39-681 RS Neb.)
§ 5-127   FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
No vehicle, except police vehicles, fire department vehicles, when responding
to emergency calls or orders in their several departments, ambulances
responding to emergency calls, or vehicles carrying United States mails shall
be driven through a funeral procession or cortege except with the permission of
a police officer. (Ref. 39-629, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-128   CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is in
the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three (3), as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere
with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle. (Ref. 39-
677 RS Neb.)
§ 5-129   DRAGGING; ROPE, CHAIN.
No person shall permit any rope, strap, chain or other article to drop behind
any vehicle while in use on the streets, except persons operating vehicles
transporting gasoline, benzene or other flammable materials. (Ref. 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-130   RIDING; OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top, or fenders of any motor vehicle. (Ref. 39-677, 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-131   DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except a permanent or temporary driveway. (Ref. 39-676 RS Neb.)
§ 5-132   EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary traffic
regulations to cover emergencies. (Ref. 60-435 RS Neb.)
§ 5-133   ENGINE BRAKES.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any part of the City to make or
cause to be made loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical device for
purposes of assisting braking on any semi-tractor (engine braking).
   (2)   Engine braking or "Jake-braking" is hereby defined as the braking
effect caused by throttle position-induced vacuum in gasoline engines, use of
an exhaust brake, or the use of a compression release brake in diesel engines.
   (3)   Any person convicted of violation of this section shall be fined one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense, and at least one hundred
dollars ($100.00) but not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second
or each subsequent offense.
   (4)   The City shall post appropriate signs which shall state "Engine
Braking Prohibited Local Ordinance". (Ord. No. 907, 12/5/11)
Article 2. Enforcement
§ 5-201   POLICE; ENFORCEMENT.
The Municipal Police are hereby authorized, empowered, and ordered to exercise
all powers, and duties, with relation to the management of street traffic and
to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate, and, when necessary, temporarily
divert, or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health, and convenience
the movement of pedestrian, animal, and vehicular traffic of every kind in
streets, parks, and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop upon the
signal of any police officer. (Ref. 39-6,192 RS Neb.)
§ 5-202   POLICE; REFUSAL TO OBEY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, or fail to comply with, any
lawful order, signal, or direction of a police officer. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-203   TRAFFIC CITATIONS; FORM AND RECORDS.
The Municipal Police shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic citations
containing notices to appear. The Municipal Clerk shall be responsible for the
issuance of such books, and shall maintain a record of every such book, and
each citation number therein issued to the Municipal Police. The Clerk shall
require and retain a receipt for every book so issued. The Municipal Clerk
shall require the return of all copies of every traffic citation which has been
spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made, and not issued to an alleged
violator.
§ 5-204   TRAFFIC CITATIONS; DISPOSITION AND RECORDS.
The Municipal Police upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged violator of
any provision of this Chapter shall deposit a copy of the traffic citation with
the Municipal Attorney, unless the citation is just a warning.
   Upon the deposit of the traffic citation with the Attorney, such citation
may be disposed of only by trial in said court, or other official action by the
judge of the court, including a forfeiture of bail, or by the deposit of
sufficient bail with, or payment of a fine to the court by the person to whom
such traffic citation has been issued.
   It shall be unlawful for the Municipal Police to dispose of a traffic
citation, or copies thereof, or of the record of the issuance of the same in a
manner other than as required herein. (Ref. 29-422, 29-424 RS Neb.)
§ 5-205   PARKING; BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
There is hereby created the Bureau of Violations within the powers and duties
of the office of the Municipal Clerk. A copy of each citation issued for non-
moving traffic violations shall be deposited with the Municipal Clerk, whose
duty it shall be to collect all fines and to maintain appropriate and accurate
records of all such fines paid to him. Fines shall be payable at the office of
the Clerk. Such fines shall be in the amount of five ($5.00) dollars for each
violation if paid within thirty (30) days from date of issuance. Should any
such fine not be paid within the thirty (30) day period, the Clerk shall ask
the Municipal Attorney to file a complaint in the appropriate court. The fine
for any such violation after thirty (30) days or after judgment is entered
against the violator shall be ten ($10.00) dollars plus court costs, and towing
and storage costs. All money collected by the Municipal Clerk under this
section shall be transferred to the general fund of the City unless the laws of
the State of Nebraska require that the money be transferred to the school
district in which the City of St. Paul lies. (Ref. 18-1729 RS Neb.) (Ord. No.
601, 5/2/88)
Article 3. Operator and Vehicle Qualifications
§ 5-301   VEHICLE; MUFFLER.
Every motor vehicle operated within this Municipality shall be provided with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise or smoke.
It shall be unlawful to use a "muffler cut-out" on any motor vehicle upon any
streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized
emergency vehicles. (Ref. 39-6,137 RS Neb.)
§ 5-302   LOADS; PROJECTING.
When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any portion of the load
extends more than four (4') feet beyond the rear of the bed or the body of such
vehicle, a red flag of not less than twelve (12") inches both in length and
width shall be carried by day, and red light after sunset at the extreme rear
end of such load.(Ref.39-6,130 RS Neb.)
§ 5-303   LOADS; SPILLING.
All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand, gravel, rock,
asphalt, tar, or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to prevent
the sifting or spilling of any of the contents. (Ref. 39-6,129 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Bicycles
§ 5-401   BICYCLE; OPERATION.
No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public highway of
this Municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position in
front of the operator.
   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but every
bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the operator
and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at all stop
signs.
   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway from one
half (1/2) hour after sunset and one half (1/2) hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions, from the front thereof
for not less than five hundred (500') feet indicating the approach or presence
of the bicycle, firmly attached to such bicycle, and properly lighted, or
without a yellow, or red light reflector attached to, and visible five hundred
(500') feet from the rear thereof. The said headlight shall give a clear, white
light.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a bicycle.
   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other public
highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and
shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the right-hand
side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles
and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass vehicles to the right
when meeting.
   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand is
located on said sidewalk.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks within the Business
District. (Ref. 39-688, 39-690, 39-691 RS Neb.)
§ 5-402   CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
No person riding upon any bicycle or roller skates shall attach the same or
himself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be unlawful for
the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling upon any
bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach himself or his bicycle, or
roller skates, to such vehicle so driven and operated by him. (Ref. 39-689 RS
Neb.)
Article 5. Motorcycles and Minibikes
§ 5-501   MOTORCYCLE; LIGHTS.
No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys, or highways from
one half (1/2) hour after sunset to one half (1/2) hour before sunrise, unless
the same shall be equipped with at least one (1), and not more than two (2)
headlights, plainly visible from the front and with a light on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of at least five hundred (500') feet to the rear thereof; provided,
said lamps shall comply with the requirements and limitations of the Statutes
of the State of Nebraska. (Ref. 39-6,138 RS Neb.)
§ 5-502   MOTORCYCLE; RIDING TANDEM.
No person operating a motorcycle shall carry another person in front of the
operator. (Ref. 39-693 RS Neb.)
§ 5-503   MINIBIKES; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the Municipality. For purposes of this
Article, "minibike" shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total
wheel and tire diameter of less than fourteen (14") inches or an engine rated
capacity of less than forty-five (45) cubic centimeters displacement or any
other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-
road use only. (Ref. 60-2101.01, 60-2107 RS Neb.)
§ 5-504   MINIBIKES; EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this Article during any public
emergency or while being used in parades by regularly organized units of any
recognized charitable, social, educational or community service organization.
(Ref. 60-2102 RS Neb.)
§ 5-505   MINIBIKES; PUBLIC LANDS.
Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the Municipality
except where allowed by resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref. 60-2106 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-506   MINIBIKES; TRAFFIC LAWS INAPPLICABLE.
The provisions of Chapter 60, Articles 1, 3, 4, 5, and 17 of the Nebraska
Statutes shall not be applicable to the owners and operators of any minibike.
(Ref. 60-2101.01 RS Neb.)
Article 6. Snowmobiles
§ 5-601   SNOWMOBILES; UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
No person under the age of fifteen (15) years shall operate a snowmobile in the
Municipality unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other person over
eighteen(18) years of age.
   The operator of a snowmobile shall not be required to hold a motor vehicle
operator's license. (Ref. 60-2018 RS Neb.)
§ 5-602   SNOWMOBILES; PUBLIC LANDS.
Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by the
Municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref.
60-2016 RS Neb.)
Article 7. Utility Terrain Vehicles, Golf Carts
and All-Terrain Vehicles
§ 5-701   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; DEFINED.
For the purposes of this Article, the term UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES shall mean
any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
   (1)   Is not less than forty-eight (48) inches nor more than seventy-four
(74) inches in width;
   (2)   Is not more than one hundred sixty (160) inches, including the bumper,
in length;
   (3)   Has a dry weight of not less than nine hundred (900) pounds nor more
than two thousand (2,000) pounds;
   (4)   Travels on four (4) or more low-pressure tires; and
   (5)   Is equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type seating
designed for at least two (2) people to sit side-by-side, except golf carts or
low-speed vehicles. Ord. No. 944, 10/6/14) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-702   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; REGISTRATION.
All utility terrain vehicles to be operated within alleys, streets, or roads
within the corporate limits shall be registered with the City Police Department
and assigned a registration number. Requirements for registration shall
include:
   (1)   Certificate of title/bill of sale;
   (2)   Proof of liability insurance coverage as set forth in this Article;
   (3)   Demonstration that the vehicle has a restraint system, roll over
protection system, headlights, tail lights, and brake lights; and
   (4)   Valid operator's license.
Registration period shall be annually from April 1 to March 31. A utility
terrain vehicle can be re-registered no more than thirty (30) days prior to
April 1. (Ord. No. 944, 10/6/14) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-703   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; REGISTRATION FEE AND NUMBER.
An annual registration fee for utility terrain vehicles shall be charged in
accordance with the Master Fee Schedule. The registration fee shall not be
prorated. The assigned registration number shall be affixed to the utility
terrain vehicle as decals to the structure. The decals shall be legible,
visible, and a minimum of three (3) inches in height. Registration numbers will
be issued by the City Police Department. The City registration number shall be
prominently displayed at all times. (Ord. No. 944, 10/6/14) (Amended by Ord.
No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-704   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Owners of utility terrain vehicles operated pursuant to these regulations shall
have liability coverage as follows:
   (1)   In the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) because of
bodily injury to or death of one (1) person in any one (1) accident;
   (2)   Subject to such limit for one (1) person, in the amount of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) because of bodily injury to or death of two (2)
or more persons in any one (1) accident; and
   (3)   In the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) because of
injury to or destruction of property of others in any one (1) accident.
The person operating the utility terrain vehicle shall provide proof of such
insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof.
(Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-705   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; REQUIRED EQUIPMENT/SAFETY FEATURES.
Utility terrain vehicles operated as authorized herein shall contain the
following equipment/safety features:
   (1)   A bicycle flag on a utility terrain vehicle shall extend not less than
five (5) feet above-ground. The bicycle flag shall be triangular in shape, with
an area of not less than thirty (30) square inches, and shall be day-glow in
color. The bicycle flag shall be attached to the rear utility area of the
utility terrain vehicle;
   (2)   Braking system maintained in good operating condition; and
   (3)   OEM muffler and exhaust system maintained in good operating condition.
(Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-706   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; OPERATION.
A utility terrain vehicle may be operated on an alley, street, or road within
the City limits as set out below:
   (1)   Only between the hours of one (1) hour before sunrise and one (1) hour
after sunset;
   (2)   Any person operating a utility terrain vehicle as authorized in this
Article shall have a valid Class O operator’s license, and be sixteen (16)
years of age or older;
   (3)   The utility terrain vehicle shall be operated at no greater speed than
thirty (30) mph and on streets posted thirty-five (35) mph or less, and always
operated at or below the established speed limit;
   (4)   The person operating the utility terrain vehicle shall provide proof
of insurance to any peace officer requesting such proof;
   (5)   The utility terrain vehicle shall not be operated on any public
highway except to cross the highway at a designated intersection; and
   (6)   The headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on at all times.
(Ord. No. 944, 10/6/14) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-707   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; OCCUPANTS.
There shall be no more than three (3) occupants per row of a utility terrain
vehicle, with a maximum of six (6) people per utility terrain vehicle. All
occupants must be restrained with a vehicle restraint system. (Ord. No. 1033,
11/7/22)
§ 5-708   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; CARGO. 
The operator of a utility terrain vehicle shall secure all cargo in such a
manner that it remains secured without assistance of the operator. (Ord. No.
1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-709   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; ANIMALS. 
All animals riding in or transported on a utility terrain vehicle must be on a
leash. (Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-710   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.   
Any person who operates a utility terrain vehicle upon a roadway shall have all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the drive
of a motor vehicle under Chapter 5 of this Code and sections 39-601 to 39-6,122
R.S. Neb., and amendments thereto, except for those provisions of such sections
which by their nature can have no application. Such regulations applicable to
utility terrain vehicles shall apply whenever a utility terrain vehicle shall
be operated upon any alley, street, or road within the Municipality or upon any
path set aside by the Department of Transportation or local authority for the
use of utility terrain vehicles. Notwithstanding any established maximum speed
limits, the utility terrain vehicle shall not travel in excess of thirty (30)
miles per hour. (Ref. 39-6,198 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 944, 10/6/14) (Amended by
Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-711   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; PROHIBITED AREAS. 
The use of utility terrain vehicles shall be prohibited upon the public lands
and sidewalks of the Municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the
Governing Body. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a utility
terrain vehicle upon any private lands without first having obtained permission
of the owner, lessee, or operator of such lands. (Ord. No. 944, 10/6/14)  
(Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-712   UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES; FINE AND PENALTY SCHEDULE.     
Any person who violates any portion of this Article shall be subject to a fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense. For a second offense in
any twelve (12) month period, the fine shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00)
and revocation of the utility terrain vehicle's registration. For an each
continued offense, the fine shall increase fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
offense, with the third offense being two hundred and fifty dollars (S250.00),
the fourth offense being three hundred dollars ($300.00), and so forth. (Ord.
No. 944, 10/6/14) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-713   RESERVED.
§ 5-714   RESERVED.
§ 5-715   RESERVED.
§ 5-716   RESERVED.
§ 5-717   GOLF CARTS; DEFINED.  
For purposes of this Article, the term GOLF CART shall mean a vehicle that:
   (1)   Has at least four (4) wheels;
   (2)   Has a maximum level ground speed of less than twenty (20) miles per
hour;
   (3)   Has a maximum payload capacity of one thousand two hundred (1,200)
pounds;
   (4)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of two thousand five hundred
(2,500) pounds;
   (5)   Has a maximum passenger capacity of not more than four (4) persons, is
designed and manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting and
recreational purposes; and
   (6)   Is not being operated within the boundaries of a golf course.
(Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-718   GOLF CARTS; REGISTRATION.  
Golf carts operated on alleys, streets, or roads within the corporate limits of
the City shall be registered with the City Police Department and assigned a
registration number. Requirements for registration shall include:
   (1)   Certificate of title/bill of sale;
   (2)   Proof of liability insurance coverage as set forth in this Article;
   (3)   Inspection of vehicle; and
   (4)   Valid operator's license.
Registration period shall be annually from April 1 to March 31. A golf cart can
be re-registered no more than thirty (30) days prior to April 1. (Ord. No. 999,
3/18/19) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-719   GOLF CARTS; REGISTRATION FEE AND NUMBER. 
An annual registration fee for golf carts shall be charged in accordance with
the Master Fee Schedule. The registration fee shall not be prorated. The
assigned registration number shall be affixed to the rear of the golf cart as
decals to the structure. The decals shall be legible, visible, and a minimum of
three (3) inches in height. Registration numbers will be issued by the City
Police Department. The City registration number shall be prominently displayed
at all times. (Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-720   GOLF CARTS; LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED. 
Owners of golf cars operated pursuant to these regulations, shall have
liability coverage
   (1)   In the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) because of
bodily injury to or death of one (1) person in any one (1) accident;
   (2)   Subject to such limit for one (1) person, in the amount of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) because of bodily injury to or death of two (2)
or more persons in any one (1) accident; and
   (3)   In the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) because of
injury to or destruction of property of others in any one (1) accident. The
person operating the golf cart shall provide proof of such insurance coverage
to any peace officer requesting such proof. (Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19) (Amended by
Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-721   GOLF CARTS; REQUIRED EQUIPMENT/SAFETY FEATURES.  
Golf carts operated as authorized herein shall contain the following equipment/
safety features:
   (1)   A bicycle flag on a golf cart without a canopy should extend not less
than five (5) feet above-ground; if golf cart is equipped with a canopy, the
flag needs to be attached to the rear of the golf cart one (1) foot above the
canopy. The bicycle flag shall be triangular in shape, with an area of not less
than thirty (30) square inches, and shall be day-glow in color;
   (2)   Braking system maintained in good operating condition; and
   (3)   Muffler and exhaust system maintained in good operating condition.
(Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19) (Amended by Ord. No. 1002, 4/15/19; 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-722   GOLF CARTS; OCCUPANTS.  
There shall be no more than two (2) occupants per row of the golf cart, with a
maximum of four (4) people per golf cart. (Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19) (Amended by
Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22) 
§ 5-723   GOLF CARTS; OPERATION.  
A golf cart may be operated on an alley, street, or road within the City limits
as set out below:
   (1)   Only between sunrise and sunset;
   (2)   Any person operating a golf cart as authorized in this Article shall
have a valid Class O operator's license, and shall be sixteen (16) years of age
or older;
   (3)   The golf cart shall be operated at no greater speed than twenty (20)
mph and on streets posted thirty-five (35) mph or less, and always operated at
or below the established speed limit;
   (4)   The person operating the golf cart shall provide proof of insurance to
any peace officer requesting such proof; and
   (5)   Golf carts shall not be operated on any public highway except to cross
the highway at a designated intersection. (Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19) (Amended by
Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-724   GOLF CARTS: TRAILER/CART PROHIBITED. 
The operator of any golf cart shall not be permitted to pull or allow any
trailer to be attached to the golf cart while operating it in accordance with
these regulations. (Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-725   GOLF CARTS; CARGO. 
The operator of a golf cart shall secure all cargo in such a manner that it
remains secured without assistance of the operator. (Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19)
(Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-726   GOLF CARTS; ANIMALS. 
All animals riding in or transported on a golf cart must be on a leash. (Ord.
No. 999, 3/18/19)
(Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-727   GOLF CARTS; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.  
Any person who operates a golf cart upon a roadway shall have all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under Chapter 5 of this Code and sections 39-601 to 39-6,122 R.S. Neb.,
and amendments thereto, except for those provisions of such sections which by
their nature can have no application. Such regulations applicable to golf carts
shall apply whenever a golf cart shall be operated upon any alley, street, or
road within the Municipality or upon any path set aside by the Department of
Transportation or local authority for the use of golf carts. (Ord. No. 999, 3/
18/19) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-728   GOLF CARTS; PROHIBITED AREAS. 
The use of golf carts shall be prohibited upon the public lands and sidewalks
of the Municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the Governing Body.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a golf cart upon any private
lands without first having obtained permission of the owner, lessee, or
operator of such lands. (Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19) (Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/
7/22)
§ 5-729   GOLF CARTS; FINE AND PENALTY SCHEDULE.  
Any person who violates any portion of this Article shall be subject to a fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense. For a second offense in
any twelve (12) month period, the fine shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00)
and revocation of the golf cart's registration. For each continued offense, the
fine shall increase fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense, with the third
offense being two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00), the fourth offense being
three hundred dollars ($300.00), and so forth. (Ord. No. 999, 3/18/19)  
(Amended by Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-730   RESERVED.
§ 5-731   RESERVED.
§ 5-732   RESERVED.
§ 5-733   RESERVED.
§ 5-734   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; DEFINED. 
For the purposes of this Article, the term ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES shall mean any
motorized off-highway vehicle which:
   (1)   Is fifty (50) inches or less in width;
   (2)   Has a dry weight of twelve hundred (1,200) pounds or less;
   (3)   Travels on three (3) or more non-highway tires, and;
   (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one (1)
passenger. (Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-735   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; REGISTRATION. 
All-terrain vehicles to be operated on alleys, streets or roads within the
corporate limits of the City shall be registered with the City Police
Department and assigned a registration number. Requirements for registration
shall include:
   (1)   Certificate of title/bill of sale;
   (2)   Proof of liability insurance coverage as set forth in this Article;
   (3)   Demonstration that the vehicle has headlights, tail lights, and brake
lights; and
   (4)   Valid operator's license.
Registration period shall be annually from April 1 to March 31. An all-terrain
vehicle can be re-registered no more than thirty (30) days prior to April 1.
(Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-736   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; REGISTRATION FEE AND NUMBER. 
An annual registration fee for all-terrain vehicles shall be charged in
accordance with the Master Fee Schedule. The registration fee shall not be
prorated. The assigned registration number shall be affixed to the all-terrain
vehicle as decals to the structure. The decals shall be legible, visible, and
be a minimum of three (3) inches in height. Registration numbers will be issued
by the City Police Department. The City registration number shall be
prominently displayed at all times. (Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-737   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
Owners of all-terrain vehicles operated pursuant to these regulations shall
have liability coverage as follows:
   (1)   In the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) because of
bodily injury to or death of one (1) person in any one (1) accident;
   (2)   Subject to such limit for one (1) person, in the amount of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) because of bodily injury to or death of two (2)
or more persons in any one (1) accident; and
   (3)   In the amount of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) because of
injury to or destruction of property of others in any one (1) accident. The
person operating the all-terrain vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance
coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof. (Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-738   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; REQUIRED EQUIPMENT/SAFETY FEATURES.
All-terrain vehicles operated as authorized herein shall contain the following
equipment/safety features:
   (1)   A bicycle flag on an all-terrain vehicle shall extend not less than
five (5) feet above-ground. The bicycle flag shall be triangular in shape, with
an area of not less than thirty (30) square inches, and shall be day-glow in
color. The bicycle flag shall be attached to the rear of the all-terrain
vehicle;
   (2)   Braking system maintained in good operating condition; and
   (3)   OEM muffler and exhaust system maintained in good operating condition.
(Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-739   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE; OPERATION. 
An all-terrain vehicle may be operated on an alley, street, or road within the
city limits as set out below:
   (1)   Only between the hours of one (1) hour before sunrise and one (1) hour
after sunset;
   (2)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle as authorized in this
Article shall have a valid Class O operator's license, and shall be sixteen
(16) years of age or older;
   (3)   The all-terrain vehicle shall be operated at no greater speed than
thirty (30) mph and on streets posted thirty-five (35) mph or less, and always
operated at or below the established speed limit;
   (4)   The person operating the all-terrain vehicle shall provide proof of
insurance to any peace officer requesting such proof;
   (5)   The all-terrain vehicle shall not be operated on any public highway
except to cross the highway at a designated intersection; and
   (6)   The headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall be on at all times.
(Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-740   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE; OCCUPANTS.
There shall be no more than one (1) occupant at a time on an all-terrain
vehicle, unless it is designed and equipped to be operated with more than one
(1) rider. All occupants must be seated on the designed manufactured seat and
not in a utility storage area. (Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-741   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE; CARGO.
The operator of an all-terrain vehicle shall secure all cargo in such a manner
that it remains secured without assistance of the operator. (Ord. No. 1033, 11/
7/22)
§ 5-742   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE; ANIMALS. 
All animals riding in or transported on an all-terrain vehicle must be on a
leash.
(Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-743   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
Any person who operates an all-terrain vehicle upon a roadway shall have all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a motor vehicle under Chapter 5 of this Code and Sections 39-601 to 39-6,122
R.S. Neb., and amendments thereto, except for those provisions of such sections
which by their nature can have no application. Such regulations applicable to
all-terrain vehicles shall apply whenever an all-terrain vehicle shall be
operated upon any alley, street, or road within the Municipality or upon any
path set aside by the Department of Transportation or local authority for the
use of all-terrain vehicles. Notwithstanding any established maximum speed
limits, the all-terrain vehicle shall not travel in excess of thirty (30) miles
per hour. (Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-744   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE; PROHIBITED AREAS. 
The use of all-terrain vehicles shall be prohibited upon the public lands and
sidewalks of the Municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the
Governing Body. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an all-terrain
vehicle upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of the
owner, lessee, or operator of such lands. (Ord. No. 1033, 11/7/22)
§ 5-745   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE; FINE AND PENALTY SCHEDULE.
Any person who violates any portion of this Article shall be subject to a fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense. For a second offense in
any twelve (12) month period, the fine shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00)
and revocation of the all-terrain vehicle’s registration. For each continued
offense, the fine shall increase fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense, with
the third offense being two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00), the fourth
offense being three hundred dollars ($300.00), and so forth. (Ord. No. 1033,
11/7/22)
Article 8. Mopeds
§ 5-801    MOPEDS; DEFINED.
For the purposes of this Article, MOPED shall mean a bicycle with fully
operative pedals for propulsion by human power, an automatic transmission, and
a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding fifty (50) cubic centimeters,
which produces no more than two (2) brake horsepower and is capable of
propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than thirty (30)
miles per hour on level ground. Mopeds, their owners, and their operators,
shall be subject to Chapter 60, Article 4 RS Neb., and amendments thereto, but
shall be exempt from the requirements of Chapter 60, Articles 1, 3, 5, and 17
RS Neb. and amendments thereto. (Ref. 39-6,196 RS Neb.)
§ 5-802   MOPEDS; OPERATOR'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys, or public highways of
the Municipality unless such person has a valid motor vehicle operator's
license or a valid school or learner's permit. (Ref. 39-6,197 RS Neb.)
§ 5-803   MOPEDS; TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under Chapter 5 of this Code and sections 39-601 to 39-6,122 RS Neb.,
and amendments thereto, except for those provisions of such sections which by
their nature can have no application. Such regulations applicable to mopeds
shall apply whenever a moped shall be operated upon any street, alley, or
public highway within the Municipality or upon any path set aside by the
Department of Roads or local authority for the use of mopeds. Notwithstanding
any established maximum speed limits in excess of twenty-five (25) miles per
hour, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of thirty (30)
miles per hour. (Ref. 39-6,198 RS Neb.)
§ 5-804   MOPEDS; OPERATION.
Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent and regular
seat attached thereto, and shall not carry any other person nor shall any other
person ride on a moped unless such moped is designed by the manufacturer to
carry more than one (1) person.
   Any person shall ride a moped only while sitting astride the seat, facing
forward. Further, no person shall operate a moped while carrying any package,
bundle, or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on
the handlebars. No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride,
in a position that will interfere with the operation or control of the moped or
the view of the operator. No person who rides upon a moped shall attach him or
her self or the moped to any other vehicle on a roadway. (Ref. 39-6,199 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-805   MOPEDS; USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.
A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any street or
highway with an authorized speed limit of forty-five (45 m.p.h.) miles per hour
or less and no vehicle shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any
moped of the full use of such lane. This section shall not apply to mopeds or
motorcycles operated two (2) abreast in a single lane. No person shall operate
a moped between lanes of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
Mopeds shall not be operated more than two (2) abreast in a single lane. Any
person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized speed limit of more
than forty-five (45 m.p.h.) miles per hour shall ride as near to the right side
of the roadway as practicable, and shall not ride more than single file. (Ref.
39-6,200 RS Neb.)
§ 5-806   MOPEDS; EQUIPMENT.
Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests for such
passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than fifteen
(15") inches above the mounting point of the handlebars. (Ref. 39-6,203 RS
Neb.)   
Article 9. Parking
§ 5-901   PARKING; DESIGNATION.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, designate any street, or portion
thereof, where vehicles shall be parked parallel with and adjacent to the curb
or at an angle so as to have the right front wheel at the curb. (Ref. 39-673,
39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-902   PARKING; AREAS.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, set aside any street, alley, public way,
or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class of vehicle
shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be prohibited.
No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked adjacent to
the curb of said street, alley, public way, or portion thereof, longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers. (Ref. 39-697
RS Neb.)
§ 5-903    VEHICLES; UNATTENDED.
No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such vehicle
to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes thereon and,
when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of such vehicle
to the curb or side of the street. The driver of a motor vehicle, when
traveling upon a down grade upon any street, shall not coast with the gears of
the vehicle in neutral. (Ref. 39-674 RS Neb.)
§ 5-904   PARKING; GENERALLY.
No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle, except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked, shall stand
parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in such manner
as to have both right wheels within twelve (12") inches of the curb or edge of
the roadway, and so as to leave at least four (4') feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the Governing Body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls.
(Ref. 39-673, 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-905   PARKING; OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
No vehicle, while parked shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.(Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-906   PARKING; ALLEYS.
No vehicle shall be parked in any alley, except for the purpose of loading or
unloading during the time reasonably necessary to load or unload. Every vehicle
while loading or unloading in any alley shall be parked in such manner as will
cause the least obstruction possible to traffic in such alley. (Ref. 39-697 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-907   PARKING; BUSINESS DISTRICT UNLOADING.
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall length of
more than twenty (20') feet to stop or park any such vehicle on Howard Avenue
from Sixth (6th) Street to Eighth (8th) Street; on Sixth (6th) Street from
Grand Avenue to Indian Avenue; or on Seventh (7th) Street from Grand Avenue to
Indian Avenue, except to load and unload, and then only when loading or
unloading in an alley is impossible. Vehicles may stop or stand for a period of
time not to exceed what is reasonably necessary to load or unload. It shall be
unlawful for the operator of any truck, regardless of length, to park said
vehicle within a street intersection, on a crosswalk, in front of a private
driveway, or on a sidewalk. The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide
truck parking areas adjoining, or adjacent to, the business district, and when
such parking areas are provided, it shall be the duty of all truck operators to
use such parking areas for all parking purposes. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-908   PARKING; FIRE HYDRANTS AND STATIONS.
No vehicle shall be parked within fifteen (15') feet in either direction of any
fire hydrant nor within twenty (20') feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station. The curb space within such area of fifteen (15') feet in either
direction of such fire hydrant shall be painted red to indicate such
prohibition. (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§ 5-909   PARKING; STREET INTERSECTIONS.
Except in compliance with traffic control devices, no vehicle shall be parked
or left standing for any purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge
passengers, within twenty-five (25') feet of the intersection or curb lines, or
if none, then within fifteen (15') feet of the intersection of property lines,
twenty (20') feet from any crosswalk, nor where said curb lines are painted red
to indicate such prohibition. (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§ 5-910   PARKING; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any vehicle
in any location where such stopping will obstruct any street, intersection, or
entrance to an alley or public or private drive. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-911   PARKING; CURB.
No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb, unless said
street has been designated to be a "one-way" street by the Governing Body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away. (Ref. 39-673 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-912   PARKING; CURBS, PAINTED.
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cause the curb space to be
painted and keep the same painted as provided in this Article. No person, firm,
or corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set aside,
or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street, or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this Article. The marking or designating of portions of streets
or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done
only by the Municipality through its proper officers, at the direction of the
Governing Body. (Ref. 39-697 RS Neb.)
§ 5-913   PARKING; REPAIR.
No person shall adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the
motor of same, while standing on the public streets or alleys of this
Municipality, excepting in case of breakdown or other emergency requiring same.
No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the vicinity of such garage or shop for the
purpose of working on automobiles or vehicles of any description. (Ref. 39-697
RS Neb.)
§ 5-914   PARKING; RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED.
The Governing Body and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate parking spaces for the exclusive use of disabled
persons whose vehicles display the distinguishing license plates issued to such
individuals pursuant to section 60-311.14 RS Neb., such other handicapped
persons, as certified by the Governing Body, whose vehicles display the
identification as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and such
other motor vehicles, as certified by the Governing Body, which display such
identification. All such permits shall be displayed in the operator's area in a
conspicuous location upon the vehicle's dashboard or its equivalent. Whenever
the Governing Body so designates a parking space, it shall be indicated by a
sign which is in conformance with the nineteenth (19th) edition of the Federal
Highway Administration Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways. In addition to such sign the space may also be indicated by blue
paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the
space.
   The Municipal Clerk shall take an application from physically handicapped
persons or their parent, legal guardian, or foster parent for a permit which
will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a motor vehicle for the
purpose of transporting such holder to park in those spaces provided for by
this section. For the purpose of this section, physically handicapped persons
shall mean visually handicapped persons and those permanently physically
handicapped persons who have definite walking problems to such an extent that
walking is impractical, impossible, extremely painful, or generally detrimental
to one's health, including those persons who have respiratory problems which
incapacitate their walking, and disabled persons as defined in section 60-
311.14 RS Neb. Visually handicapped persons shall mean those persons using the
white cane or guide dog. Persons applying for a permit shall complete such
forms as are provided to the Municipal Clerk by the Department of Motor
Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Municipal Clerk that
he or she is handicapped. The Municipal Clerk may require medical certificates
and proof of a handicapped condition. Such application shall be forwarded to
the Department of Motor Vehicles.
   The Municipal Clerk may take an application from any person for a motor
vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving the
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting physically handicapped persons to
park in those spaces provided for by this section, if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of physically handicapped person. Such parking
permit shall be used only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is
being used for the transportation of physically handicapped persons. Persons
applying for permits [pursuant to this section], shall apply for a permit for
each motor vehicle used for the transportation of physically handicapped
persons and shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal Clerk by
the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the Clerk that each
such motor vehicle is used primarily for the transportation of physically
handicapped persons. Such applications shall be forwarded to the Department of
Motor Vehicles.
   The permit shall be a card not less than five (5") inches by eight (8")
inches in size to be issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles, on which is
prominently displayed the letter "H" and an identifying number on the front of
the card. The name, address, phone number, date of birth, and age of the
physically handicapped person to whom issued shall appear on the reverse side,
and if the permit is issued for a motor vehicle used primarily for the
transportation of physically handicapped persons, the name, address, and phone
number of the party to whom issued and the license plate number of the motor
vehicle for which the permit is issued shall appear on the reverse side of the
permit. No permit shall be issued to any person for any motor vehicle if any
valid handicapped parking permit has been issued to such person or for such
motor vehicle if such permit has been suspended pursuant to this section.
   A duplicate permit may be provided by the Department of Motor Vehicles
without cost if the original permit is destroyed, lost, or stolen. Such
duplicate permit shall be valid for the remainder of the period for which the
original permit was issued.
   Permits issued under this section shall not be transferable, and shall be
used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for which issued
and only for the purpose for which it is issued. Use by any other person, for
any other motor vehicle, or for any other purpose shall be cause for suspension
of such permit for a period of six (6) months. At the expiration of such
period, a suspended permit may be renewed upon the payment of the permit fee.
   The owner or person in lawful possession of an offstreet parking facility,
after notifying the police or sheriff's department, as the case may be, and the
Municipality when providing onstreet parking or owning, operating, or providing
an offstreet parking facility, may cause the removal, from a stall or space
designated exclusively for disabled persons, other handicapped persons, or
motor vehicles for the transportation of physically handicapped persons, of any
vehicle not displaying proper identification or one of the distinguishing
license plates specified in this section if there is posted immediately
adjacent to and visible from such stall or space a sign which clearly and
conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in zone. Anyone parking in
an onstreet parking space which has been designated exclusively for handicapped
persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of handicapped persons, or in
any so designated parking space in any offstreet parking facility owned or
operated by the Municipality without properly displaying the proper
identification, shall be guilty of a traffic infraction as defined in section
39-602, Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943, and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedure set forth in section 39-6,122, Revised Statutes
Supplement, 1978. (Ref. 18-1736 through 18-1742 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No.
661, 5/2/94)
§ 5-915   PARKING; CURRENT LICENSE.
It shall be unlawful to park, or place on the streets, alleys, or other public
property any motor vehicle without first securing a current license as provided
by law. (Ref. 60-323 RS Neb.)
§ 5-916   PARKING; REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
Whenever any Police Officer shall find a vehicle standing upon a street or
alley in violation of any of the provisions of this Article, such individual
may remove or have such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person
in charge of the vehicle to move such vehicle, to a position off the roadway of
such street or alley or from such street or alley.
   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of such
vehicle may be charged with the reasonable cost for such removal and storage,
payable before such vehicle is released. Any such towing or storage fee shall
become a security interest in the vehicle prior to all other claims. This fee
shall be in addition to any other fees or penalties owed the Municipality for
such vehicle. (Ref. 60-6,165, 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-917   PARKING; EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
The provisions of this Article regulating the movement, parking, and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this Article, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties. (Ref. 60-6,114 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-918   PARKING; MISDEMEANORS; UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
No person in charge or control of any property within the Municipality, other
than Municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than thirty (30) days or
for any length of time any vehicle that has been unlicensed for a period in
excess of four (4) months; provided, this section shall not apply to a vehicle
in an enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premise of a business enterprise,
operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the
lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
Municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this
section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated. In addition, any
person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. No. 596,
7/6/87)
§ 5-919   PARKING; STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (1)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a law enforcement officer or traffic-
control device, no person shall:
      (a)   Stop, stand, or park any vehicle: (i) On the roadway side of any
vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a street, (ii) on a sidewalk,
(iii) within an intersection, (iv) on a crosswalk, (v) between a safety zone
and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet of points on the curb immediately
opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the City Police indicates a
different length by signs or markings, (vi) alongside or opposite any street
excavation or obstruction when stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct
traffic, (vii) within a highway tunnel, (viii) on any railroad track, or (ix)
at any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (b)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers: (i) In front of
a public or private driveway, (ii) within fifteen feet of a fire hydrant, (iii)
within twenty feet of a cross walk at an intersection, (iv) within thirty feet
of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign, or other traffic-control device
located at the side of a roadway, (v) within twenty feet of the driveway
entrance to any fire station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance
to any fire station within seventy-five feet of such entrance when properly
signposted, or (vi) at any place where official signs prohibit standing, or
      (c)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers; (i) Within fifty feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing,
or (ii) at any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (2)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be unlawful.
(Ord. No. 602, 5/2/88)
§ 5-920   UNDER AGE DRIVERS; LIMITED PERMIT; VEHICLES; DRIVING TO AND FROM
SCHOOL; PENALTY.
   A person who has not attained the age of 16 years but is over the age of 14
years, and has been issued, by the County Treasurer, a limited permit to drive
a motor vehicle, moped, or motorcycle to and from the school building where he
or she attends school, by the nearest highway or street from his or her place
of residence, if such child lives a distance of one and one half miles or more
from such a school. Such limited permit shall be used for the sole purpose of
transporting such person to attend school and authorized school activities,
except that the holder of the permit may drive under the personal supervision
of his or her parents or guardian.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a traffic infraction and shall be fined not more than $50.00 for each
such offense. (Ord. No. 603, 5/2/88)
§ 5-921   PARKING; CITY OWNED PARKING LOTS.
   (1) The following areas are designated as publicly-owned parking lots:
      (a)   The   parking lot between 6th and 7th Street, north of Grand
Street;
      (b)   The parking lot between 5th and 6th Street, north and east of the
City Hall building; and
      (c)   The parking lot between 4th and 5th Street, north of Grand Street.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or motor vehicle in any
publicly-owned parking lot in any manner or position other than that indicated
by appropriate signs or markings.
   (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or motor
vehicle or to permit such vehicle or motor vehicle to stand on a publicly-owned
parking lot for a period in excess of forty-eight (48) hours.
   (4)   Any vehicle or motor vehicle allowed to remain on a publicly-owned
parking lot in violation of this section shall constitute a nuisance, and may
be towed from the property.
   (5)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of such
vehicle or motor vehicle may be charged with the reasonable cost for such
removal and storage, payable before such vehicle is released. Any such towing
or storage fee shall become a security interest in the vehicle or motor vehicle
prior to all other claims. This fee shall be in addition to any other fees or
penalties owed the Municipality for such vehicle.
(Ord. No. 1028, 6/6/22)
§ 5-922   PARKING; PARKING TRUCKS AND TRAILERS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
(Repealed by Ord. No. 836, 6/4/07)
§ 5-923   PARKING; HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; PERMITS; PERIOD VALID;
RENEWAL; FEE.
   (1)   All permits authorized under this Article for handicapped or disabled
parking shall be issued for a period of three (3) years from the date of
issuance. All temporarily handicapped or disabled parking permits authorized
under this Article shall be issued for a period ending ninety (90) days from
the date of issuance but may be renewed for up to three (3) additional ninety-
day (90) periods. For each additional ninety-day (90) renewal period, there
shall be submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or
disability and the required permit fee.
   (2)   A permit fee of three dollars ($3.00) shall be charged for each
permit, two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) of which shall be retained by the
Municipal Clerk and fifty cents ($0.50) shall be forwarded on a quarterly basis
to the Department of Motor Vehicles. (Ref. 18-1740 RS Neb.) (Ord. No. 661, 5/2/
94)
§ 5-924   PARKING; LIMITATIONS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (1)   It is in the best interest of the City of St. Paul to control parking
of vehicles on public streets within the City and within particular areas of
the City for the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the City. The
City Council of the City of St. Paul has thoroughly analyzed the need for said
regulation and hereby sets forth the following parking restrictions and
requirements pertaining to the City. This section may be amended from time to
time in order to implement other concerns and issues which are presently being
evaluated and examined by the City Council of the City of St. Paul and which
fall within the perimeters of these parking regulations.
   (2)   Definitions.
      CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure mounted on wheels and designed for
travel, recreational and/or vacation uses.
      MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary building to be used for travel,
recreational and vacation uses, constructed as an integral part of a self-
propelled vehicle.
      PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for
use as temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and/or vacation use.
      RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. All that territory defined as either single family
or residential or multiple district in the zoning ordinance and comprehensive
plan for and by the City of St. Paul.
      SEMI-TRAILER. A vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in
conjunction with a truck-tractor that a considerable part of its own weight or
that of its load rests upon and is carried by the truck tractor and includes a
trailer drawn by a truck tractor semi-trailer combination.
      STREET/HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of any way or
place when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a matter of
right or purpose of vehicular traffic.
      TRAILER. A trailer is any vehicle designed for carrying property of
passengers on its own structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle but does
not include a trailer drawn by a truck-tractor semi-trailer combination or an
auxiliary axle on a motor vehicle which carries a portion of the weight of the
motor vehicle to which it is attached.
      TRAVEL TRAILERS. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and/or
vacation use.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not constructed to carry a load other than a part of the
weight of the vehicle and load drawn; or a motor vehicle designed and used
primarily for drawing other vehicles used exclusively for transporting motor
vehicles or boats and capable of carrying motor vehicles or boats on its own
structure.
   (3)   Designation of Restricted Parking Zones.
      (a)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets or
portions of certain streets as any of the following: No parking zones, no
stopping zones, no standing zones, physically handicapped zones, limited
parking zone, truck zone, loading zone, safety zone, bus stop, truck or
commercial vehicle parking zones, and such other zones as may be necessary to
assist in the direction and control of traffic. The City Council may likewise,
by resolution adopt restrictions which apply to and govern the parking of
vehicles in such designated zones.
      (b)   All zones designated by the Council shall be marked by appropriate
signs. During the hours specified on each sign, no person shall stop, stand, or
park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to stand, whether attended or
unattended, for a period of a time longer than is specified on the sign, and no
vehicle shall be stopped, allowed to stand, or parked in a no parking zone or a
zone where parking is otherwise prohibited, except as permitted by state law
and except as otherwise permitted under this section.
   (4)   Truck/Trailer Parking.
      (a)   It shall be unlawful to park a detached semi-trailer upon any
street, alley, city-owned parking lot, or other public property except as such
are specifically designated by the City of St. Paul, by resolution and sign
posting.
      (b)   It shall be unlawful to park a truck (other than a truck of 10,000
gross vehicle weight or less), truck trailer, tractor-trailer, or truck-tractor
within an area zoned as R-1 or R-2 (family or multi- family residential
districts) except for the purpose of loading or unloading the same, and then
only during such times as reasonably necessary for such activity.
      (c)   City Parking Lots. In city-owned parking lots, the Council may
limit the size and types of motor vehicles to be parked thereon, hours of
parking, and prescribed method of parking by resolution from time to time or by
amendment of this section.
      (d)   Recreational Parking Time. It shall be unlawful for any person to
leave or park a travel trailer, pick-up coach, motor home, camping trailer,
recreational vehicle on or within the limits of any street, right of way, or
city-owned parking lot within the City of St. Paul for a continuous period in
excess of forty-eight (48) hours, except where designated as a camp site.
   (5)   Amendments. The City Council from time to time shall amend this
section to address other issues and concerns that impact the health, safety,
and welfare of the City and which concerns need Council action and enforcement.
At the present time, the City Council is considering enforcement policies with
regard to abandoned vehicles, winter parking, snowmobile traffic, and routes
and may amend this section to include provisions restricting or regulating
these and other concerns that may from time to time come before the Council.
   (6)   Fine Schedules.
      (a)   A violation of the this section shall result in a fine of ten
dollars ($10.00). For a second offense in any twelve (12)-month period, the
fine shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00). For a third offense in any twelve
(12)-month period, the fine shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      (b)   If said fine is not paid within seventy-two (72) hours, the fine
shall be double. If the fine is not paid and it is necessary for the City to
file a criminal complaint with the County Court in order to proceed against the
violator, the fine shall be in an amount no less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. No. 836, 6/4/
07) (Amended by Ord. No. 855, 2/20/08)
Article 10. Emergency Routes
§ 5-1001   EMERGENCY ROUTES; DESIGNATED.
The following streets located within the City are hereby designated as
emergency routes:
   1.   Custer Street from 2nd Street to Taylor Street
   2.   Sheridan Street from Adams Street to Paul Street
   3.   6th Street from Adams Street to O Street
   4.   7th Street from Adams Street to O Street
   5.   Kendall Street from 2nd Street to Nelson Street
   6.   O Street from 2nd Street West to 9th Street
   7.   Paul Street from 9th Street West to City Limits
   8.   Howard Avenue from 2nd Street West to City Limits
   9.   Indian Street from 5th Street to Sherman Street
   10.   Grand Street from 5th Street to 8th Street
   11.   8th Street from Grand Street to Indian Street
   12.   9th Street from Grand Street to Indian Street
(Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-1002   EMERGENCY ROUTES; PARKING PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or allow to remain parked any motor
vehicle at any time on an emergency route as designated under section 5-1001
between the dates of October 15 to April 15 at any time an emergency has been
declared by the Mayor or his/her designated representative. (Ref. 60-680 RS
Neb.)
§ 5-1003   EMERGENCY ROUTES; SIGNS.
Officials of the City shall place appropriate signs or other traffic control
devices indicating the existence of such emergency routes. A designation of any
street, avenue, road, highway, or portion thereof as a emergency route shall in
no way affect any previous designation of that street, avenue, road, or highway
for any other purpose. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-1004   EMERGENCY ROUTES; PLACED INTO EFFECT; DURATION.
Whenever the Mayor, or his/her designated representative, shall find, on the
basis of falling snow, sleet or freezing rain, on the basis of an official
forecast by the U. S. Weather Bureau, of snow, sleet, or freezing rain, or that
other weather conditions, such as tornado or violent electrical storms, will
make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking on
City emergency routes be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing and/or other
purposes, the Mayor or his/her designated representative may place into effect
a parking prohibition on all emergency routes by declaring that an emergency
condition exists. In case of such declaration the Mayor or his/her designated
representative shall state the time that said emergency shall be in effect and
from the time so designated it shall be unlawful to park or allow to remain
parked any motor vehicle on any emergency routes. Once in effect, such parking
prohibition imposed shall remain in effect until terminated by declaration of
the Mayor or his/her designated representative; provided, however, nothing in
this section shall be construed to permit parking at any time or place where it
is forbidden by any other provision of law. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-1005   EMERGENCY ROUTES; STUCK OR STALLED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
Whenever an emergency has been declared pursuant to this Article, it shall be
unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on an emergency route to
allow such vehicle to become stalled or stuck for any reason. Whenever a motor
vehicle becomes stalled or stuck for any reason whether or not in violation of
this Article, on any emergency route on which there is a parking prohibition in
effect, the person operating such vehicle shall take immediate action to have
the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of such emergency route, either
onto the nearest cross street which is not an emergency route, or another
appropriate location. No person shall abandon or leave his vehicle in the
roadway of an emergency route, except for the purpose of securing assistance
during the actual time necessary to go to a nearby telephone or to a nearby
garage, gasoline station, or other place of assistance and return without
delay. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
§ 5-1006   EMERGENCY ROUTES; REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
Members of the St. Paul Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or
have removed a vehicle from a street to another place or location on a street
or to a lot, garage, storage yard, or other similar facility designated by the
Police Department when:
   1.   The vehicle is parked on an emergency route on which a parking
prohibition is in effect.
   2.   The vehicle is stalled on an emergency route on which there is a
parking prohibition in effect and the person who is operating said vehicle does
not appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
   3.   The vehicle is parked on any street in violation of any parking
prohibition or provision of law contained in this Article and is interfering,
or about to interfere, with snow removal operations.
   The Police Department may cause such vehicles to be removed to a private
lot, garage, storage yard, or other similar facility, and such vehicle shall
not be released therefrom except upon payment by owner of the vehicle to the
person or persons in charge of the lot, garage, storage yard, or other similar
facility for the cost of towing, and a receipt for such fees shall be issued to
the owner of the vehicle. It shall be the duty of the person or persons in
charge of the lot, garage, storage yard, or other similar facility designed by
the Police Department to keep a record of the name of the owner of all vehicles
towed in under the provisions hereof, together with the registration number of
each vehicle, and the nature and circumstances of each violation, and the
amount of fees collected hereunder, and to deliver a report of each transaction
to the Chief of Police monthly. (Ref. 60-680 RS Neb.)
Article 11. Penal Provision
§ 5-1101   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
Chapter 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
Article 1. Dogs and Cats
§ 6-101   DOGS AND CATS; LICENSING.   
   (1)   Any person who shall own, keep, possess or harbor a dog or cat over
the age of six (6) months within the City jurisdiction, shall within thirty
(30) days after acquisition of the said dog or cat, acquire a license for each
such dog or cat and thereafter annually, by or before May 1st of each year. The
City Council may, as they deem necessary, provide public notice to said
residents of the City about licensing requirements.
   (2)   Licenses shall be issued by the City, the St. Paul Veterinary Clinic,
and the Martinsen Clinic. The license fees are as follows:
      Each neutered male dog or spayed female dog   $5.00
      Each unneutered male dog or unspayed female dog   $10.00
      Each neutered male cat or spayed female cat   $2.50
      Each unneutered male cat or unspayed female cat   $5.00
      Replacement tag   $2.50
   (3)   Evidence of vaccination for rabies shall be presented with the
application for license and shall be certified by the veterinarian. No license
shall be issued until such rabies vaccination certificate has been presented
and verified. (Amended by Ord. No. 784, 8/4/03; 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-102   DOGS AND CATS; LICENSE TAGS; REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   (1)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the City Clerk shall issue to the
owner of a dog or cat a license certificate and metallic tag for each dog or
cat so licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or
harness of all dogs and cats so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep,
possess or harbor said dog or cat until the first (1st) day of May following
such licensing. In the event that a license tag is lost, the City Clerk shall
issue a duplicate or a new tag for the balance of the year at the same fee
provided in §
6-101. All license fees, collections and replacement tag fees shall be
immediately credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the City
Clerk to issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each
year.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed,
the collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog or cat without the
consent of the owner, harborer, keeper, or possessor of any dog or cat.
(Amended by Ord. Nos. 784, 8/4/03; 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-103   DOGS AND CATS; DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Chapter, unless otherwise specified, the following terms
mean:
   ABANDON.To leave any animal in one's care, whether as owner or custodian,
for any length of time without making effective provision for its food, water,
or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal's health.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.An entity authorized to enforce the animal control
laws of the City designated by the City Council.
   ANIMAL SHELTER.Any facility operated by the City or contracted by the City
for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of
this chapter.
   AUCTIONS.Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this Chapter. This
section does not apply to individual sales of animals by owners.
   BITE.Any seizure with the teeth by an animal.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction,
circus, performing animal exhibition, or kennel (this term shall not include a
veterinary hospital or veterinary clinic).
   CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, bum, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any animal.
   CRUELLY NEGLECT.To fail to provide any animal in one's care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal's health.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that:
   (1)   Has killed a human being;
   (2)   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical treatment;
   (3)   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
   (4)   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous animal by
an animal control authority or animal control officer, the owner has received
notice of such determination, and the animal inflicts an injury on a human
being that does not require medical treatment, injures a domestic animal, or
threatens the safety of humans or domestic animals. An animal shall not be
defined as a dangerous animal hereunder if the individual was tormenting,
abusing, or assaulting the animal at the time of the injury or has, in the
past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the
animal. An animal shall not be defined as a dangerous animal if the injury,
damage, or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass, was committing any other tort upon the property
of the owner of the animal, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal,
or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.A cat or a dog, male or female, sexed or neutered.
   ENCLOSURE.Any tract of land intended to restrain or contain a domestic
animal by means of a building, fence, or any other means.
   GROOMING SHOP.A commercial establishment where domestic animals are bathed,
clipped, plucked, or otherwise groomed.
   HYBRID ANIMAL.Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
animal with a nondomestic animal species.
   HUMANE KILLING.The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
   KENNEL.Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling dogs or
cats. Any lot or parcel of land or place where:
   (1)   More than two (2) dogs; or
   (2)   More than two (2) cats; or
   (3)   More than two (2) dogs and one (1) cat; or
   (4)   More than one (1) dog and two (2) cats are confined, treated, boarded,
housed or card for and shall include any lot or parcel of land or place where a
person, corporation, or other entity engages in, conducts, manages, or
maintains a veterinary business of the number of animals treated, kept,
confined, boarded or cared for.
   MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other licensed
health care professional.
   MUTILATION.Intentionally causing permanent injury, disfigurement,
degradation of function, incapacitation, or imperfection to an animal.
MUTILATION does not include conduct performed by a veterinarian licensed to
practice veterinary medicine and surgery in this state or conduct that conforms
to accepted veterinary practices.
   OWNER.Any person who shall harbor or permit any dog and/or cat to be present
for ten (10) days or more in or about their house, store, enclosure, or
property, or allow it to remain to be fed, shall be deemed the owner and
possessor of such dog and/or cat and shall be liable for all penalties herein
described.
   PET.Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP.Any person, partnership, or corporation, whether operated
separately or in connection with another business except for a licensed kennel,
that buys, sells, or boards any species of animal.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (1)   Any animal that when unprovoked .
      (a)   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment;
      (b)   Injures a domestic animal; or
      (c)   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
   (2)   Any specific animal with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
   REPEATED BEATING. Intentional successive strikes to an animal by a person
resulting in serious bodily injury or death to the animal.
   RESTRAINT.Any animal secured by a leash or lead, or under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to that person's commands, or within the real
property limits of its owner.
   RESIDENCE.The structure used as a domicile by a person or a family.
   RUNNING AT LARGE.Any dog or other animal off the premises of the owner and
not under the immediate control of a person physically capable of restraining
the animal by holding a leash, cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other suitable
means of physical restraint or if the animal is out of doors on the premises of
the owner, the animal shall be in an adequately fenced in area or securely
fastened to a leash or chain to prevent the animal from leaving the owner's
premises.
   SCRATCH.Any scraping with the claws by a domestic animal which causes an
abrasion, puncture or wound of the skin.
   SERIOUS INJURY OR ILLNESS.Includes any injury or illness to any animal winch
creates a substantial risk of death or which causes broken bones, prolonged
impairment of health, or prolonged loss or impairment of the function of any
bodily organ.
   SHELTER. Any structure with a roof and walls designed and/or intended to
house one or more animals.
   STRAY ANIMAL.Any unlicensed animal found roaming at large, frequenting or
remaining on private or public property without the consent of the owner or
tenant of said property.
   TORTURE. Intentionally subjecting an animal to extreme pain, suffering, or
agony. TORTURE does not include conduct performed by a veterinarian licensed to
practice veterinary medicine and surgery in this state or conduct that conforms
to accepted veterinary practices.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL OR VETERINARY CLINIC.Any establishment maintained and
operated by a licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of
diseased and injured animals.
   WILD ANIMAL.Any live animal normally found living in a state of nature and
not normally subjected to domestication, including but not limited to: monkeys,
raccoons, skunks, snakes, and lions, but excluding birds. (Amended by Ord. No.
784, 8/4/03; 895, 9/2/10)
§ 6-104   DOGS AND CATS; UNCOLLARED; RUNNING AT LARGE.
All dogs or cats found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of
the Municipality without a collar or harness are hereby declared a public
nuisance. Uncollared dogs or cats found running at large shall be killed or
impounded in the Municipal Animal Shelter by the Municipal Police and it shall
be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any dog or cat to run at large
within said City, and every dog or cat found running at large in violation
hereof is declared a public nuisance and may be picked up and impounded by the
City Police Department or any City employee.(Amended by Ord. Nos. 784, 8/4/03;
895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-105 DOGS AND CATS; POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR DANGEROUS DOGS ON OWNER'S
PROPERTY.
While unattended on the owner's property, a dangerous or potentially dangerous
dog shall be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or outdoors in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the
entry of young children and to prevent the animal from escaping. The pen or
structure shall have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has
no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at
a depth of at least one (1) foot. The pen or structure shall also protect the
dog from the elements. All pens or structures for confining dangerous or
potentially dangerous dogs shall be at least ten (10) feet from any privately
or publicly-owned abutting the animal owners' property. The owner of a
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the property
where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of public access
and that inform persons that a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal is on
the property. Each warning sign shall be no less than ten (10) inches by twelve
(12) inches and shall contain the words warning and dangerous animal in high-
contrast lettering at least three (3) inches high on a black background. (Ord.
No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-106   DOGS AND CATS; POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR DANGEROUS DOGS RESTRAINT;
IMPOUNDMENT; CONFISCATION; DESTRUCTION.
   (1)   No owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal shall fail to
keep such animal securely muzzled and restrained by a leash or chain whenever
off the owner's property.
   (2)   Any dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog in violation of §§
6-104 or
6-105 may be immediately impounded by the City. The owner shall be responsible
for the costs incurred by the City for the care of the dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog confiscated by the City or for the destruction of any dangerous
or potentially dangerous dog if the action by the City is pursuant to law.
   (3)   In the event a dog conforming to the definition of potentially
dangerous animal inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans
or domestic animals, the potentially dangerous animal shall be immediately
confiscated by an animal control officer, placed in quarantine for the proper
length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
   (4)   An animal conforming to the definition of dangerous animal shall be
immediately confiscated by an animal control officer, placed in quarantine for
the proper length of time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and
humane manner.
   (5)   Disposition of any animal impounded under this chapter shall be
governed by §
6-111. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-107   DOGS AND CATS; INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
law enforcement officer or designated humane officer who is performing any duty
enjoined upon him or her by the provisions of this Article, or to break open,
or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking
open of any animal shelter, any ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of dogs to the shelter. (Amended by Ord. No. 784, 8/4/
03; 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-108   DOGS AND CATS; EXPOSING POISON PROHIBITED.
No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed with food
or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any animal; provided,
that it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose common rat poison mixed
only with vegetable substances on his or her own property. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/
10)
§ 6-109   DOGS AND CATS; BARKING AND OFFENSIVE DOG PROHIBITED/PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any
domestic animal why by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, yelping
or habitually barking, annoys or disturbs any neighborhood or person. It is
unlawful to own, keep, or harbor any dog that is repeatedly at large, chases
pedestrians, vehicles, or riders of bicycles or horses, attacks other animals,
trespasses on school grounds, or damages private or public property while said
persons are within the City limits. The provisions of this section shall not be
construed to apply to any City animal shelter. Upon the written complaint of
any two (2) persons, filed with the City Clerk, that any dog owned by the
person named in the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise
violates the provisions of this section the Municipal Police shall investigate
the complaint and, if in their opinion the situation warrants, shall notify the
owner to silence and restrain such dog. If the reason(s) for the complaint are
not addressed and resolved by the owner with a reasonable time, the Municipal
Police shall issue a citation. The Municipal Police are authorized to
investigate the violation of this section at any time.
   (2)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined as follows: first
offense - fifty ($50.00) dollars; second offense - one hundred ($100.00)
dollars; third offense - two hundred ($200.00) dollars; fourth offense - three
hundred ($300.00) dollars and each subsequent offense - three hundred ($300.00)
dollars. Prior to the issuance of a citation for violation of this section, the
Municipal Police may issue a warning. (Amended by Ord. Nos. 784, 8/4/03; 792,
12/15/03; 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-110   DOGS AND CATS ; LIABILITY OF OWNER.  
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a domestic animal owned, kept, or
harbored by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or
destroy any real or personal property of any description belonging to another
person. The owner or possessor of any such dog, in addition to the usual
judgment upon conviction, may be made to be liable to the persons so injured in
an amount equal to the value of the damage so sustained. (Amended by Ord. No.
895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-111   DOGS AND CATS; DOGS; IMPOUNDING.
It shall be the duty of the Municipal Police to capture, secure, and remove in
a humane manner to the Municipal Animal Shelter, located at the Veterinary
Clinic, any domestic animal violating any of the provisions of this Article.
The domestic animal so impounded shall be treated in a humane manner and shall
be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh water each day. Each
impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a
period of not less than five (5) days after public notice has been given unless
reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all domestic animals,
including significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office
of the Municipal Clerk within twenty-four (24) hours after impoundment as
public notification of such impoundment. Any domestic animal may be reclaimed
by its owner during the period of impoundment by payment of a general
impoundment fee and daily board fee as set by resolution of the Governing Body
and on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk. The owner shall then be
required to comply with the licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
before the animal is released. If the domestic animal is not claimed at the end
of the required waiting period after public notice has been given the Municipal
Police may dispose of the domestic animal in accordance with the applicable
rules and regulations pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in the
judgment of the Municipal Police, a suitable home can be found for any such
domestic animal within the Municipality, the said domestic animal shall be
turned over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to pay all
fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this
Article. The Municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed domestic
animal impounded in the Animal Shelter for a period longer than the required
waiting period after giving notice. All domestic animals shall be destroyed and
buried in the summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health
unless a suitable home can be found for such domestic animal.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-112   DOGS AND CATS; PET EXCRETA; REMOVAL BY OWNER.
The owner of any domestic animal which deposits excreta on public property, or
private property, shall be responsible for its removal. It shall be a violation
of this section for the owner to fail to immediately remove such excreta when
notified of its existence and location, either by the City or by the owner of
the property on which the excreta was deposited. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-113   DOGS AND CATS; FIGHTING: CRUELTY: KILLING AND INJURING.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set
domestic animals to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same
to fight.
   (2)   No person shall beat, cruelly mistreat, torment, tease, torture,
cruelly neglect, or otherwise abuse any animal.
   (3)   No person shall kill or injure any animal by the use of firearms,
stones, clubs, poisons, or any other manner unless the animal is vicious or
dangerous and cannot be captured without danger to the persons attempting to
affect a capture of said animal. (Ord. No. 784, 8/4/03; Amended by Ord. No.
895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-114   DOGS AND CATS; SHELTER; ENCLOSURE: RESTRAINT.
   (1)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her pets with shelter of
sufficient size to allow each pet to lie down, and of sufficient construction
to shield the pets from the wind, sun, and from precipitation.
   (2)   No owner shall fail to confine his or her animals within an enclosure
of sufficient size and design to prevent the animal from escaping or to
restrain said animal by a securely fastened rope, chain, or cord in such a
manner as to prevent such animal from going onto any public property or onto
the property of another. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-115   DOGS AND CATS; SHELTERS AND ENCLOSURES; SANITATION.
No owner shall fail to keep the shelters and enclosures on his or her property
in a sanitary condition. As a minimum, owners shall not fail to:
   (1)   Remove or dispose of in a sanitary manner, the bedding, offal manure,
and waste materials accumulating from all other animals at least once every
other day.
   (2)   Clean and disinfect said shelters and enclosures so as to prevent the
breeding of flies and insects and the emission of deleterious and offensive
odors therefrom. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-116   DOGS AND CATS; ISOLATION OF FEMALE ANIMALS IN HEAT.
No owner of a female domestic animal in heat shall fail to take reasonable
measures to isolate said female from male domestic animals to prevent contact
with such male animals except for planned breeding. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-117   DOGS AND CATS; ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon such animal. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/
10)
§6-118   DOGS AND CATS; FOOD, WATER, HEALTH CARE; OWNER'S DUTY.
   (1)   No owner shall fail to provide food and water for his or her animals,
or fail to seek veterinary care for any such animals that are sick or injured.
Food and water container shall be of sufficient weight and design as to
preclude readily tipping over and spilling the contents.
   (2)   No owner shall leave his or her pets without shelter in subzero degree
or stormy weather. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-119   DOGS AND CATS; ANIMALS USED AND TRAINED FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT;
EXEMPTION.
Any animal used by law enforcement agencies including but not limited to the
City Police Department, the Howard County Sheriffs Department or the Nebraska
State Patrol shall be exempted from the provisions of the city ordinances
including the ordinances while such animal is being trained or used for law
enforcement purposes. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-120   DOGS AND CATS; ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS; DUTIES.
No person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes an animal, shall
fail to stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report such injury or death to the animal's owner, the police, or
the animal control authority for the City. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/10)
§ 6-121   DOGS AND CATS; EAR CROPPING, DEWCLAW REMOVAL, AND TAILDOCKING;
PROHIBITION.
No person, other than a licensed veterinarian, shall crop the ears, remove the
dewclaws, or dock the tail of an animal. (Ord. No. 895, 9/20/10)
Article 2. Rabies Control
§ 6-201   RABIES CONTROL; DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Article.
   DOG. The term "dog" shall mean any canine animal, male or female, sexed or
neutered.
   VACCINATION. The term "vaccination against rabies" shall mean the
inoculation of a dog with a rabies vaccine licensed by the United States
Department of Agriculture on December 25, 1969. Such vaccination must be
performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in
the State of Nebraska.
   OWN. The term "own," unless otherwise specified, shall mean to possess,
keep, harbor, or have control of, charge of, or custody of a dog. This term
shall not apply to dogs owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained
on the premises of a veterinarian or to dogs held by a kennel operator for a
period of thirty (30) days or less.
   OWNER. The term "owner" shall mean any person possessing, keeping,
harboring, or having charge or control of, or permitting any dog to habitually
be or remain on, or be lodged or fed within, such person's house, yard, or
premises for a period of ten (10) or more days. This term shall not apply to
veterinarians or kennel operators temporarily maintaining on their premises
dogs owned by other persons for a period of not more than thirty (30) days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. The term "rabies control authority" shall mean the
Municipal health and law enforcement officials who shall enforce the provisions
of this Article relating to vaccination and impoundment of dogs. Such public
officials shall not be responsible for any accident or disease of a dog
resulting from the enforcement of the provisions of this Article. (Ref. 71-4401
RS Neb.)
§ 6-202   RABIES CONTROL; VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Every dog four (4) months of age and older shall be vaccinated against
rabies. Young dogs shall be vaccinated within thirty (30) days after they have
reached four (4) months of age. Unvaccinated dogs acquired or moved into the
Municipality must be vaccinated within thirty (30) days after purchase or
arrival, unless under four (4) months of age as specified above.
   Every dog shall be revaccinated following a period of not more than thirty-
six (36) months since its last vaccination with chick embryo, LEP (Low Egg
Passage) Flury Vaccine or following a period of not more than twelve (12)
months since its last vaccination with a killed of inactivated vaccine. The
intervals of any other anti-rabies vaccines which may be set by the State
Veterinarian, or which may be recommended by the United States Public Health
Service on December 25, 1969, shall be followed by the Municipality. (Ref. 71-
4402 RS Neb.)
§ 6-203   RABIES CONTROL; CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION.
It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, at the time of vaccinating any dog,
to complete a certificate of rabies vaccination which shall include, but not be
limited to the following information:
   1.   The owner's name and address.
   2.   An adequate description of the dog including, but not limited to, such
items as the dog's breed, sex, age, name, and distinctive markings.
   3.   The date of vaccination.
   4.   The rabies vaccination tag number.
   5.   The type of rabies vaccine administered.
   6.   The manufacturer's serial number of the vaccine used.
   Such veterinarian shall issue a tag with the certificate of vaccination.
(Ref. 71-4403 RS Neb.)
§ 6-204   RABIES CONTROL; COST OF VACCINATION.
   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the dog.
§ 6-205   RABIES CONTROL; DOGS EXEMPTED.
The provisions of this Article with respect to vaccination shall not apply to
any dog owned by a person temporarily remaining within the Municipality for
less than thirty (30) days, to any dog brought into the Municipality for field
trial or show purposes, or to any dog brought into the State for hunting
purposes of a period of less than thirty (30) days. Such dogs shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any dog
into the Municipality which does not comply with the animal health laws and
import regulations of the State of Nebraska which are applicable to dogs.
   Dogs assigned to a research institution or a similar facility shall be
exempt from the provisions of this Article.  (Ref. 71-4405 RS Neb.)
§ 6-206   RABIES CONTROL; RABIES SUSPECTED.
Any dog or any other animal suspected of being afflicted with rabies, or any
dog not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this Article which has
bitten any person and caused an abrasion of the skin, shall be seized by the
Rabies Control Authority and impounded under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian or the Board of Health for a period of not less than ten (10)
days. If upon examination by a veterinarian, the dog or other animal has no
clinical signs of rabies at the end of such impoundment, it may be released to
the owner. All necessary and reasonable expenses for the care of such dog shall
be paid by the owner. In the case of an unlicensed dog, it shall be disposed of
in accordance with the provisions herein. Any dog, vaccinated in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter, or any other animal which has bitten any
person, shall be confined by the owner or some other responsible person for a
period of at least ten (10) days, at which time the dog or other animal shall
be examined by a licensed veterinarian. If no signs of rabies are observed, the
dog may be released from confinement. All reasonable and necessary expenses for
the care of any such animal shall be paid by the owner. (Ref. 71-4406 RS Neb.)
§ 6-207   RABIES CONTROL; DOG BITTEN BY RABID ANIMALS.
In the case of dogs known to have been bitten by a rabid animal, the following
rules shall apply:
   (1)   In the case of a dog which has not been vaccinated in accordance with
the provisions of this Article and which has been bitten by a known rabid
animal, such bitten or exposed dog shall be immediately destroyed unless the
owner is willing to place such dog in strict isolation in a kennel under
veterinary supervision for of period of not less than six (6) months.
   (2)   If the bitten or exposed dog is vaccinated in accordance with the
provisions of this Article, such dog shall be subject to the following
procedure:
      (a)   Such dog shall be immediately revaccinated and confined for a
period of not less than thirty (30) days following vaccination, or
      (b)   If such dog is not immediately revaccinated, such dog shall be
confined in strict isolation in a kennel for a period of not less than six (6)
months under the supervision of a veterinarian, or
      (c)   Such dog shall be destroyed if the owner does not comply with
either subdivision (a) or subdivision (b) of this Subsection. (Ref. 71-4407 RS
Neb.)
§ 6-208    RABIES; PROCLAMATION.
It shall be the duty of the Governing Body whenever in its opinion the danger
to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than thirty (30)
days or more than ninety (90) days from the date of such proclamation, or until
such danger is passed. The dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient
means in a house, garage, or yard on the premise wherein the said owner may
reside. Upon issuing the proclamation it shall be the duty of all persons
owning, keeping, or harboring any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Ref. 17-526 RS Neb.)
Article 3. Animals Generally
§ 6-301   ANIMALS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper, or harborer of any animal, or any
person having the charge, custody, or control thereof, to permit a horse, mule,
cow, sheep, goat, swine, or other animal to be driven or run at large on any of
the public ways and property, or upon the property of another, or to be
tethered or staked out in such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach or
pass into any public way. (Ref. 17-526, 17-547 RS Neb.)
§ 6-302   ANIMALS; BANNED FROM MUNICIPALITY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or other livestock, except on
property zoned Agricultural Residential (AGR) pursuant to Section 502 of the
Zoning Ordinance. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 917, 6/4/12)
§ 6-303   ANIMALS; WILD.
No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except such animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions. (Ref.
17-123 RS Neb.)
§ 6-304   ANIMALS; CRUELTY.
For provisions on cruelty to animals, see section 6-115. (Amended by Ord. No.
784, 8/4/03)
§ 6-305   ANIMALS; KILLING AND INJURING.
For provisions on killing and injuring animals, see section 6-115. (Amended by
Ord. No. 784, 8/4/03)
§ 6-306   ANIMALS; ENCLOSURES.
For provisions on animal enclosures, see section 6-116. (Amended by Ord. No.
784, 8/4/03)
§ 6-307   FOWLS; RUNNING AT LARGE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese,
or any other fowls to run at large within the corporate limits, except in
enclosed places on private property. (Ref. 17-547 RS Neb.)
§ 6-308   FOWLS; WRITTEN PERMISSION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on their private property poultry,
chickens, turkeys, geese, or other fowls unless, and until they have received
the written consent of the owners or lessees of the property immediately
adjoining the private property where such fowls are to be kept, and all other
property owners within one hundred fifty (150) feet of the place where such
animals are to be kept, which consent shall be filed at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and shall be subject to revocation by any of the said owners or
lessees at any time.
§ 6-309   KENNELS; DEFINED.
   1.   "Kennel" is defined for this Chapter as any lot or parcel of land or
place where:
      A.   More than two (2) dogs; or
      B.   More than two (2) cats; or
      C.   More than two (2) dogs and one (1) cat; or
      D.   More than one (1) dog and two (2) cats are confined, treated,
boarded, housed or cared for and shall include any lot or parcel of land or
place where a person, corporation or other entity engages in, conducts, manages
or maintains, a veterinary business, regardless of the number of animals
treated, kept, confined, boarded or cared for.
   2.   "Kennel Operator" means the person or persons, corporation, partnership
or other legal entity who is the legal owner or who is actually in control and
operation of a kennel. "Kennel Operator" does not include a Veterinarian
operating a Veterinary Hospital.
   3.   "Owner" means any person, corporation, partnership or other entity who
is the legal owner, keeper, harborer, possessor or the actual custodian of an
animal. Ownership is established by a person registering as the owner on a
license, or other legal document or by a person claiming ownership and taking
possession of an animal.
(Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-310   KENNELS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
It is unlawful for any person to keep, conduct, or operate any kennel without a
license as is required under the provisions of this Chapter or other ordinances
of the City. (Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-311   KENNELS; KEEPING MORE DOGS OR CATS OR COMBINATION THAN PERMITTED.
It is unlawful for any person to keep, house, confine or maintain more dogs or
more cats or combination thereof than permitted in any place in the City other
than at a kennel; Provided, that for the purposes of this Chapter, a litter of
puppies or a litter of kittens less than six (6) months of age shall not be
included in computing the number of dogs or cats or combination thereof
permitted under the provisions of this Section. (Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-312   KENNELS; MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION.
The Kennel Operator shall maintain the kennel at all times in a clean and
sanitary condition, shall provide all animals in the kennel with adequate
shelter, feed and fresh water, all feed shall be stored in covered, ratproof
containers protected against contamination, and meat shall be kept
refrigerated. All kennels shall be so constructed and operated as to safely
confine the dogs and cats therein. No refuse or waste materials shall be
allowed to remain thereon for more than twenty-four (24) hours. All animals
shall be humanely treated, and any animal having any disease shall be properly
isolated and treated. (Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-313   KENNELS; LICENSE ISSUANCE.
A license to operate a kennel, or pet shop, anywhere in the City of St. Paul,
Nebraska shall not be issued unless the owner establishes with clear and
convincing evidence to the City Council that the kennel shall be operated in
the manner set forth in Section 6-312. The annual license fee for kennels and
pet shops shall be one hundred fifty ($150.00) dollars per year. The license
year shall be from the date of issuance, and shall be valid for one year,
unless earlier revoked. If the Kennel Operator fails to maintain the kennel in
accordance with Section 6-312 the license may be revoked by the Chief of
Police. (Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-314   KENNELS; LICENSES AND VACCINATIONS.
The Kennel Operator shall not be required to obtain the individual licenses
imposed by City ordinances for each dog or cat in his kennel for which the
kennel license is obtained; however, each Kennel Operator shall have each dog
or cat in his kennel vaccinated as required by the ordinances of the City, and
a certificate of vaccination for each dog or cat must be available for
inspection. (Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-315   KENNELS; HEARING ON DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
Any person whose kennel license is revoked may, within ten (10) days after
receipt of the notice thereof by the Chief of Police apply to the City Council
for a hearing on the denial or revocation, and the decision of the City Council
at the conclusion of such hearing shall be final. If no hearing is requested
within ten (10) days, revocation shall be final. If no hearing is requested
within ten(10) days, revocation shall be final. (Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-316   KENNELS; HEARING ON DENIAL OR REVOCATION, NOTICE, PROCEDURE.
Mailed, written notice of the date set for hearing on revocation shall be given
by the City Clerk to the licensee and to the Chief of Police. At the time set
for hearing, the Chief of Police shall present the facts upon which the
revocation was based. The licensee or his attorney may then present the facts
by reason of which the applicant believes revocation was improper. Upon
conclusion of the presentation of both parties, the City Council may, but shall
not be required to, entertain presentation and support and opposition to the
revocation by interested persons. The City Council may continue the matter from
time to time. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall render
its decision which shall be final. (Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-317   KENNELS; ENFORCEMENT.
It shall be the responsibility of the Chief of Police of this City to enforce
the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-318   KENNELS; COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS.
It is unlawful for any person to maintain, have or operate a kennel in any
residential area anywhere in the City, or anywhere within the limits of the
City, unless such property is zoned permitting such use. (Ref. 19-913 RS Neb.)
(Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
§ 6-319   KENNELS; VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person, firm, partnership or legal entity violating any of the provisions
of this Article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction
thereof be punished by fine, first (1st) offense not less than ten ($10.00)
dollars, a second (2nd) offense not less than twenty ($20.00) dollars, and such
third (3rd) offense not less than thirty ($30.00) dollars, for any sub
subsequent offense thereafter by a fine of not less than fifty ($50.00) dollars
nor more than two hundred ($250.00) dollars, or by imprisonment not to exceed
six (6) months, or both. Each day a violation occurs shall be considered a
separate violation. (Ord. No. 605, 6/1/88)
Article 4. Miscellaneous Misdemeanors
§ 6-401   MISDEMEANORS; CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that he is not licensed or
privileged to do so, to:
   A.   Enter or secretly remain in any building or occupied structure, or any
separately secured or occupied portion thereof; or
   B.   Enter or remain in any place as to which notice against trespass is
given by:
      1.   Actual communication to the actor; or
      2.   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to come
to the attention of intruders; or
      3.   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude intruders.
(Ref. 28-520, 28-521 RS Neb.)(Class 1, 2 or 3)
§ 6-402   MISDEMEANOR; IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a public servant
other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended capacity. It
is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not in fact
exist. (Ref. 28-609 RS Neb.)(Class 3)
§ 6-403   MISDEMEANORS; IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity. (Ref. 28-610 RS Neb. (Class 1)
§ 6-404   MISDEMEANORS; PUBLIC INDECENCY.
It shall be unlawful for any person, eighteen (18) years of age or over, to
perform or procure or assist any other person to perform in a public place and
where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by members of the
public:
   A.   An act of sexual penetration as defined by Subdivision (5) of Section
28-318 RS Neb.; or
   B.   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with intent to affront or
alarm any person; or
   C.   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the same
or opposite sex.
(Ref. 28-806 RS Neb.)(Class 2)
§ 6-405   MISDEMEANORS; REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him to
be a peace officer, to unreasonably refuse or fail to aid such peace officer
in:
   A.   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state; or
   B.   Securing such offender when apprehended; or
   C.   Conveying such offender to the jail of the county.
(Ref. 28-903 RS Neb.) (Class 2)
§ 6-406   MISDEMEANORS; RESISTING ARREST, WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR
DANGEROUS WEAPON.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally prevent or attempt to
prevent a peace officer, acting under color of his official authority, from
effecting an arrest on said person or on another, by:
   A.   Using or threatening to use physical force or violence against the
peace officer of another; or
   B.   Using any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
   C.   Employing means which require substantial force to overcome resistance
to effecting the arrest;
   Provided, that this Section shall apply only to those actions taken to
resist arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon.
   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this Section if the peace
officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself as a peace
officer by showing his credentials to the person whose arrest is attempted.
(Ref. 28-904 RS Neb.)(Class 1)
§ 6-407   MISDEMEANORS; OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE TO AVOID ARREST.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle to flee in
such vehicle in an effort to avoid arrest or citation for the violation of any
law of the State of Nebraska constituting a misdemeanor, infraction, traffic
infraction, or any Municipal ordinance, except nonmoving traffic violations.
(Ref. 28-905(1)(3) RS Neb.)(Class 3)
§ 6-408   MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
It shall be unlawful for any person, to use or threaten to use violence, force,
physical interference, or obstacle, to intentionally obstruct, impair, or
hinder the enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace by a
peace officer or judge acting under color of his official authority. (Ref. 28-
906 RS Neb.)(Class 1)
§ 6-409   MISDEMEANORS; FALSE REPORTING.
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Furnish information he or she knows to be false to any peace officer or
other official with the intent to instigate an investigation or an alleged
criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal matter; or
   B.   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the existence
of an emergency in which human life or property are in jeopardy to any
hospital, ambulance company, or other person or governmental agency which deals
with emergencies involving danger to life or property; or
   C.   Furnish any information, or cause such information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a Fire Department or any
personnel or equipment of such Department; or
   D.   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person.
(Ref. 28-907 RS Neb.)(Class 1)
§ 6-410   MISDEMEANORS; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.  (Ref. 28-1322 RS Neb.)(Class 3)
§ 6-411   MISDEMEANORS; MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, keep up or continue and
maintain any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the
Municipality.  (Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.) (Class 3)
§ 6-412   MISDEMEANORS; PROHIBITED FENCES.
For provisions on fences, see Chapter 9, Article 7, sections 9-701 through 9-
706. (Amended by Ord. No. 786, 8/18/03)
§ 6-413   MISDEMEANORS; APPLIANCES IN YARD.
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox, freezer,
or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to children
whether on private or public property unless he shall first remove all doors
and make the same reasonably safe.  (Ref. 18-1720, 28-1321 RS Neb.)(Class 3)
§ 6-414   WEEDS, LITTER, STAGNANT WATER.
   A.   Any and all lots or pieces of ground within the Municipality shall be
drained or filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance
accumulating thereon.
   B.   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
Municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets
and alleys free of any growth of twelve inches or more in height of weeds,
grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   C.   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the Municipality is prohibited.
   D.   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit, allow, or maintain
any growth of twelve inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon
except in proper receptacles.
   E.   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this ordinance, be guilty of a Class V misdemeanor.
   F.   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner's duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the Municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the Municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess the
costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefited in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed.
   G.   For purposes of this section: (1) Litter shall include, but not be
limited to: (a) trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes; (b)
wood plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble; (c) grass, leaves, and
worthless vegetation; (d) offal and dead animals; and (e) any machine or
machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a machine or vehicle which have lost
their identity, character, utility, or serviceability as such through
deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable
to perform their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded, or thrown away
or left as waste, wreckage, or junk and, (2) Weeds shall include, but not be
limited to, bindweed (convolvulus arvensis), puncture vine (tribulus
terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula), Canadian thistle (cirsium
arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba), Russian knapweed (centaurea
picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding or musk thistle, quack
grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus arvensis) horse nettle
(solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium lanceolatum), buckthorn (rhamnus
sp.)(tourn), hemp plant (cannabis sativa), and ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
(Amended by Ord. No. 634, 8/8/91)
§ 6-415   MISDEMEANORS; DISEASED OR DYING TREES.
For provisions on dead or diseased tree removal, see §
2-105(N).
§ 6-416   MISDEMEANORS; PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING,
BROOK OR STREAM.
It shall be unlawful for any person to put any dead animal, carcass or part
thereof or other filthy substance into any well, or into any spring, brook or
branch of running water, of which use is made for domestic purposes. (Ref. 28-
1304 RS Neb.)(Class 4)
§ 6-417   MISDEMEANORS; DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of his official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the Municipality; Provided, nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Governing Body. (Ref.
17-556 RS Neb.) (Class 5)
§ 6-418   MISDEMEANORS; SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB gun,
or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or under
any circumstances within the Municipality. (Ref. 17-556 RS Neb.) (Class 5)
§ 6-419   MISDEMEANORS; INJURY TO TREES.
For provisions on trees, see §
2-105)
§ 6-420   MISDEMEANORS; LITTERING.
Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of any litter
on any public or private property, or in any waters, commits the offense of
littering unless:
   A.   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
   B.   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   The term litter as used in this Section means all rubbish, refuse, waste
material, garbage, trash, debris or other foreign substances, solid or liquid,
of every form, size, kind and description, but does not include the waste or
primary process of farming or manufacturing.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this Section, the operator of such motor
vehicle or water craft commits the offense of littering. (Ref. 17-123.01, 28-
523 RS Neb.) (Class 4)
§ 6-421   MISDEMEANORS; DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturb the peace and good order of others within the City of St. Paul,
Nebraska by clamor or noise, intoxication, drunkenness, fighting, using of
obscene or profane language in the streets or other public places, or is
otherwise indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior. (Ref.
17-129, 17-556 RS Neb.) (Class 5)
§ 6-422   MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain on
any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to, or inconsistent with, the public use of the same. (Ref. 17-
142, 17-555, 17-557, 39-703, 39-704 RS Neb.)(Class 5)
§ 6-423   MISDEMEANORS; OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water in
a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant. (Ref. 17-555, 17-970 RS Neb.)
(Class 5)
§ 6-424   MISDEMEANORS; CURFEW.
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of seventeen (17) years to
ride in or operate any vehicle in or upon any street, alley, or other public
place, or to loiter, wander, stroll, loaf, or play in or upon any of the
streets, alleys, or other public places between the hours of 11:00 o'clock P.M.
of any day and 6:00 o'clock A.M. of the following day, Monday through Friday,
and from 12:01 o'clock A.M. to 6:00 o'clock A.M. Saturday and Sunday unless
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the care,
custody or control of said minor, or the minor is engaged in lawful employment
or is on an emergency errand; provided, when an activity of the kind normally
attended by minors under seventeen (17) years terminates after, or less than
one (1) hour prior to 11:00 o'clock P.M. or 12:01 o'clock A.M., as the case may
be, the curfew shall commence one (1) hour after the termination of such
activity. (Ref. 17-505 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 724, 7/20/98; 807, 2/23/
05)
§ 6-425   MISDEMEANORS; LOITERING AND VAGRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter on the streets, in the park,
on the sidewalk, or on any other public ways and property at unreasonable
hours, and those persons who are unable to give a good and satisfactory reason
why they should be there, including all vagrants and persons found without
means of support or some legitimate business, shall be deemed to be guilty of
loitering. (Ref. 17-556 RS Neb.)
§ 6-426   MISDEMEANORS; MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR.
It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined by Section 53-102 RS Neb., to
obtain or attempt to obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or
by any other method, in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is
sold. (Ref. 53-102, 53-180.01, 53-180.05 RS Neb.) (Class 3)
§ 6-427   MISDEMEANORS; DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages in the
public streets, alleys, roads, highways, or upon any property owned by the
Municipality or other governmental subdivision thereof, or inside vehicles
while upon the public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, in theatres, dance
halls, or any other place open to the public; Provided, the provisions of this
Section shall not apply to liquor establishments licensed by the State of
Nebraska. (Ref. 53-186, 53-1,100 RS Neb.) (Class 2 or 4)
§ 6-428   MISDEMEANORS; ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in this section. And no person other than one authorized by the
Municipality or appropriate state agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any
part of a vehicle which is left unattended on a highway or other public place
without license plates affixed or which is abandoned.
      (1)   A motor vehicle is an abandoned vehicle:
         (a)   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid In Transit
decals issued pursuant to section 60-320 RS Neb. affixed thereto, for more than
six (6) hours on any public property;
         (b)   If left unattended for more than twenty-four (24) hours on any
public property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally
permitted;
         (c)   If left unattended for more than forty-eight (48) hours after
the parking of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any
public property on which parking is legally permitted;
         (d)   If left unattended for more than seven (7) days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated; or
         (e)   If left for more than thirty (30) days in the custody of a law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner under subsection (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under section 28-431 RS Neb.
shall be an abandoned vehicle under this subsection. If an abandoned vehicle,
at the time of abandonment, has no license plates of the current year or valid
In Transit decals issued pursuant to section 60-320 RS Neb. affixed and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of the vehicle, of two
hundred fifty ($250.00) dollars or less, title shall immediately vest in the
Municipality.
      (3)   Except for vehicles governed by subsection (A)(2) of this section,
the Municipality shall make an inquiry concerning the last- registered owner of
an abandoned vehicle as follows:
         (a)   If the abandoned vehicle has license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   If the abandoned vehicle does not have any license plates
affixed, to the Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (4)   The Municipality shall notify the last-registered owner, if any,
that the vehicle in question has been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and
that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
(5) days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the Municipality thirty (30) days after the
date such notice was mailed.
      (5)   If the Municipality is notified that a lien or mortgage exists, the
notice described above shall also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any
person claiming such vehicle shall be required to pay the cost of removal and
storage of such vehicle.
      (6)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
Municipality:
         (a)   Five (5) days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Thirty (30) days after the date the notice is mailed if the
Municipality will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   The last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice of
such fact is received.
      (7)   (a)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to the
terms of this section, the Municipality may retain for use, sale, or auction
the abandoned vehicle. If the Municipality determines that the vehicle should
be retained for use, the Municipality shall, at the same time that the notice,
if any, is mailed, publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the
jurisdiction an announcement that the Municipality intends to retain the
abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will vest in the Municipality
thirty (30) days after publication.
         (b)   If the municipal law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last- registered
owners stating that the vehicle is in the custody of the agency, that the
vehicle is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after thirty
(30) days the agency will dispose of the vehicle.
         (c)   This subsection shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under section 28-431 RS Neb.
      (8)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this section
unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it
is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
      (9)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any
expenses incurred by the Municipality, shall be held by the Municipality
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two (2) years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the general fund of the Municipality.
      (10) Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the premises from which
any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the Municipality, shall be liable for any
loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its removal or while in the
possession of the Municipality or its contractual agent or as a result of any
subsequent disposition.
      (11) The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the Municipality for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY means any public right-
of-way, street, highway, alley or park or other state, county, or municipally
owned property; PRIVATE PROPERTY means any privately owned property which is
not included within the definition of public property.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of an
offense. (Amended by Ord. No. 745, 6/5/00)
§ 6-429   MISDEMEANORS; SHOOTING HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS OR NOTICES.   
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously shoot upon the
public highway and injure, deface, damage or destroy any signs, monuments, road
markers, traffic control or surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon said highways. (Ref. 39-619.01(1) RS Neb.) (Class 3)
§ 6-430   MISDEMEANORS; REMOVAL AND POSSESSION OF HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS OR
NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than those authorized to do so,
to remove any sign, traffic control or traffic surveillance device placed along
a public street, road or highway for traffic control, warning or informational
purposes. Moreover, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess such a sign
or device which has been removed in violation of this Section. (Ref. 39-619.01
(2) RS Neb.) (Class 2+)
§ 6-431   MISDEMEANORS; SHOPLIFTING.
A person commits the crime of theft by shoplifting when he or she, with the
intent of appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without paying for
the same or to deprive the owner of possession of such property or its retail
value, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
   (a)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any store
or retail establishment;
   (b)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise of
any store or retail establishment;
   (c)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
   (d)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise with
a label or price tag from another item of merchandise; or
   (e)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   In any prosecution for theft by shoplifting, in order to allow the owner or
owners of shoplifted property the use of such property pending criminal
prosecutions, photographs of the shoplifted property may be accepted as prima
facie evidence as to the identity of the property. Such photograph shall be
accompanied by a written statement containing the following:
   (a)   A description of the property;
   (b)   The name of the owner or owners of the property;
   (c)   The time, date, and location where the shoplifting occurred;
   (d)   The time and date the photograph was taken;
   (e)   The name of the photographer; and
   (f)   Verification by the arresting officer.
   Prior to allowing the use of shoplifted property as provided in this
Section, legal counsel for the alleged shoplifter shall have a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and appraise the property and may file a motion for
retention of the property, which motion shall be granted if there is any
reasonable basis for believing that the photographs and accompanying affidavit
may be misleading. (Ref. 28-511.01 RS Neb.)
§ 6-432   MISDEMEANORS; UNLICENSED OR IN- OPERABLE VEHICLES.
No person in charge or control of any property within the Municipality, other
than Municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked,
or discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than thirty (30) days or
for any length of time any vehicle that has been unlicensed for a period in
excess of thirty (30) days; Provided, this section shall not apply to a vehicle
in an enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premise of a business enterprise,
operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the
lawful operation of the business; or to a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
Municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this
section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated. In addition, any
person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. No. 596,
7/6/87) (Amended by Ord. No. 722, 6/1/98)
§ 6-433   CERTAIN UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; DISPOSITION.
   Any property that shall come into the possession of the City Police of St.
Paul, the disposition of which is not otherwise provided for by law, and which
appears to be abandoned or unclaimed, may be sold at auction or disposed of as
provided in this ordinance. (Ord. No. 623, 11/5/90)
§ 6-434   UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; SALE; DISPOSAL; PROCEDURE.
If the property abandoned or unclaimed shall remain unclaimed for a period of
not less than one hundred eighty days, the Chief of Police may sell such
property at auction. Prior to such sale the Chief of Police shall cause a list
of all property subject to sale to be published once a week for three
consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in Howard County. If
such property is not bid upon at sale, or the Chief of Police reasonably
believes that such property has little or no sale value, he or she may dispose
of such property. Before the Chief of Police may dispose of such property he or
she shall submit a plan for disposing of such property to the City Council for
its approval. Upon the approval of the City Council, the Chief of Police may
dispose of such property in the manner approved and shall be exempt from any
civil liability for such action. (Ord. No. 623, 11/5/90)
§ 6-435   UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; SALE PROCEEDS; DISPOSITION.
The Chief of Police shall pay over to the City Clerk the proceeds of any sale
authorized by this ordinance, less the reasonable expenses of such sale. The
City Clerk shall hold such proceeds for a period of two years from the date of
sale in a PROPERTY FUND. If at the end of such period no person has presented a
lawful claim to the proceeds of such sale, the City Clerk shall deposit such
proceeds, including interest thereon, to the general fund of the City and any
claims thereon shall be extinguished. (Ord. No. 623, 11/5/90)
§ 6-436   SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION; FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (1)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons' place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
   (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (3)   It is the intent of Sections 6-436 through 6-438 to serve the City's
compelling interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the City by creating certain areas around locations
where children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain
sexual predators cannot reside. (Ord. No. 816, 12/19/05) (Amended by Ord. No.
823, 7/17/06)
§ 6-437   SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION; DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of Sections 6-436 through 6-438 the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
(1) location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which may
include more than one (1) location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
section 29-4003 RS Neb. and who is required to register as a sex offender
pursuant to the Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by Nebraska State Patrol under section 29-4013
RS Neb., and who has victimized a person eighteen (18) years of age or younger.
(Ord. No. 816, passed 12/19/05) (Amended by Ord. No. 823, 7/17/06)
§ 6-438   SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION; RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS; PENALTIES;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within five hundred (500) feet from a school or child care
facility.
   (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
   (3)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in the Municipal Code of the City of Saint Paul, Nebraska.
   (4)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator's residence at that location.
(Ord. No. 816, 12/9/05) (Amended by Ord. No. 823, 7/17/06)
Article 5. Penal Provisions
§ 6-501   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
Chapter 7
FIRE REGULATIONS
Article 1. Fires
§ 7-101   FIRES; PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall have the
authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall become
necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection of
human life, or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property. The Fire
Chief may direct the Municipal Firefighters to remove any building, structure,
or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The Fire Chief
shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown up, with explosives
any building or structure during the progress of a fire for the purpose of
checking the progress of the same.
§ 7-102   FIRES; DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for a period
of thirty-six (36) hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse
to obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner.
The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and authority
during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them in the
performance of their official duties. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§ 7-103   FIRES; EQUIPMENT.
It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the Municipality. (Ref. 28-519 RS Neb.)
§ 7-104   FIRES; INTERFERENCE.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
§ 7-105   FIRES; OBSTRUCTION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant, or
have or place any material within fifteen (15') feet of the said hydrant. Any
vehicle or material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the
Fire Chief or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost, and expense
of the owner or claimant. (Ref. 39-672 RS Neb.)
§ 7-106   FIRES; DRIVING OVER HOSE.
It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over unprotected hose of the Fire
Department. (Ref. 39-682 RS Neb.)
§ 7-107   FIRES; TRAFFIC.
Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five (5) minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than five hundred
(500') feet to any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is
connected. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying
doctors, members of the Fire Department, or emergency vehicles. (Ref. 39-681 RS
Neb.)
§ 7-108   FIRES; FALSE ALARM.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire. (Ref. 28-907, 35-520 RS Neb.)
§ 7-109   FIRES; PEDESTRIANS.
It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street after
a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have completely
passed. (Ref. 28-908 RS Neb.)
Article 2. Fire Prevention
§ 7-201   FIRE PREVENTION; LIFE SAFETY CODE.
Incorporated by reference into this Code are the standards recommended by the
National Fire Protection Association, known as the Life Safety Code, the most
current Edition, and all subsequent amendments. This Code shall have the same
force and effect as if set out verbatim herein. One (1) copy of the Life Safety
Code is on file with the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. (Ref. 18-132, 19-902, 19-922, 81-502 RS
Neb.)
§ 7-202   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
It shall be the duty of all Municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
fire code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
§ 7-203   FIRE PREVENTION; LAWFUL ENTRY.
It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the said structure
for the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
Municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire. (Ref. 81-512 RS Neb.)
§ 7-204   FIRE PREVENTION; VIOLATION NOTICE.
It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the Municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the said
ordinance or ordinances within five (5) days from the date of receipt of such
notice.
§ 7-205   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
The following described territory in the Municipality shall be and constitute
the fire limits:
   "The territory within the Central Business District as designated on the
Municipal Zoning Map."
(Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-206   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE LIMITS MATERIALS.
Within the aforesaid fire limits, no structure shall be built, altered, moved,
or enlarged unless such structure will be enclosed with walls constructed
wholly of stone, well-burned brick, terra cotta, concrete, or other such
noncombustible materials as will satisfy the Fire Chief that the said structure
will be reasonably fireproof. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-207   FIRE PREVENTION; PERMITTED REPAIRS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter, or add to any building in
the fire limits where the repair is less than fifty (50%) percent of the
building unless the said person shall first submit an application to the
Municipal Clerk to make such repairs, alterations, or to add to any building
and shall state on the application that the material used will be non-
combustible and approved by the Fire Chief. Repairs in the form of patching and
other minor repairs shall not require a permit. In the event that the repairs,
alteration, or addition is to involve more than fifty (50%) percent of the
building, the owner shall be required to apply for a new building permit which
shall state that the building, when completed, shall be fireproof and made of
non-combustible materials. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-208   FIRE PREVENTION; IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
All buildings, sheds, and structures known as ironclads which are constructed
of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame shall be
considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any future
construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited. (Ref. 17-
550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-209   FIRE PREVENTION; REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged by fire,
wind, flood, vandalism or any other cause, to the extent of less than fifty
(50%) percent of its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the duty
of the owner, lessee, or occupant to remove or repair the said building in
accordance with the provisions of this Article. It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow a building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any
such building shall be removed or repaired within thirty (30) days after
receiving notice to do so by the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-550 RS Neb.)
§ 7-210   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire within the Municipality
except as provided in §
7-214.   (Ref. 17-556 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 894, 9/20/10)
§ 7-211   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRES REGULATED.
If any person shall require a fire in the course of his or her trade as a
blacksmith or mechanic, such fire shall be built and maintained in the manner
prescribed by the Fire Chief, and all fire shall be built after seven (7:00)
o’clock a.m. and completely extinguished by eight (8:00) o’clock p.m. Any such
burning shall be done while the said fire is attended by the person setting out
the same at all times. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire, to
burn, or cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter, vegetable matter,
straw, hay leaves, or brush. (Ref. 17-549, 17-556, 81-520.01 RS Neb.) (Amended
by Ord. Nos. 624, 12/3/90; 894, 9/20/10)
§ 7-212   FIRE PREVENTION; OPEN BURNING BAN, WAIVER.
The State Fire Marshal may prohibit bonfires, outdoor rubbish fires, and fires
for the purpose of clearing land by issuing an open burning ban on a statewide
or regional basis when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such
fires hazardous. The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department may waive an
open burning ban issued under this section for an area under his or her
jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. Said permit issued by the Fire Chief shall
be in writing, signed by the Fire Chief, and on a form provided by the State
Fire Marshal. (Ref. 81-520.01 RS Neb.)
§ 7-213   OPEN FIRES; WHEN ALLOWED.
Except as provided herein, no person shall cause or allow any open fire. (Ord.
No. 624, 12/3/90; Amended by Ord. No. 894, 9/20/10)
§ 7-214   OPEN FIRES; EXCLUSIONS.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:
   (1)   Fires in stoves or grills for the preparation of food where no
nuisance or hazard is created.
   (2)   Fires for the purpose of training members of the St. Paul Volunteer
Fire Department.
   (3)   Fires started or maintained by employee or agents of the City at the
City Sanitary Landfill sites.
   (4)   Fires for the purpose of heating a dwelling unit, a commercial
structure or other building when contained within a fireplace, furnace, stove
or heater.
   (5)   Fire employed by mechanics, tradesmen or blacksmiths in the course of
their respective trades, except the hours shall be in accordance with §
7-211.
   (6)   Fires for which a written permit has been issued by the City Fire
Chief. The City Fire Chief is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a
written permit and to attach or prescribe conditions and limitations in the
issuance thereof.
      (a)   Applications for Permit. An application for a permit authorized by
this Article shall be made to the City Fire Chief in such a form and detail as
he or she shall prescribe.
      (b)   Purposes of the permit shall include:
         1.   For essential agricultural operation in the growing of crops
where no nuisance or hazard is created.
         2.   Destroying dangerous materials or diseased trees.
         3.   Clearing land for roads or other construction activity.
         4.   For recreational purposes.
   (7)   Fires set in operation of smokeless Hare stacks for the combustion of
waste gases, provided they meet the requirements of the Nebraska Department of
Environmental Quality.
   (8)   Open fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person until
the fire is extinguished. The person so attending shall have a water supply or
other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use, and no such fire
shall be abandoned until it has been completely extinguished.
   (9)   The Fire Chief of the Fire Department may prohibit any and all burning
when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
(Ord. No. 624, 12/3/90) (Amended by Ord. No. 894, 9/20/10)
§ 7-215   OPEN FIRES; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
The City Fire Chief shall revoke any permit issued under this section when he
or she finds either:
   (1)   That said permit is being used by any person other than the person to
whom the permit was issued; or
   (2)   That the conditions or limitations set forth in the permit have been
violated; or
   (3)   That violations set forth in any written notice served upon a
permittee by the City Fire Chief have not been corrected within the time of
said notice; or
   (4)   That the permit is being used for any premises or location other than
that for which it was issued. (Ord. No. 624, 12/3/90)
§ 7-216   OPEN FIRES; APPEAL.
A person whose application for a permit has been denied or whose permit has
been revoked shall have the right to appeal such action to the Mayor and
Council. The appeal shall not stay the order of the City Fire Chief until the
same is overturned or modified. The appeal shall be in writing and shall state
the grounds upon which the party appealing bases his or her claim to a reversal
of the City Fire Chief's decision. The Mayor and Council shall hear the appeal
in accordance with a procedure which will afford the person making the appeal
and the City Fire Chief to present evidence in support of their respective
positions. The decision of the Mayor and Council shall be based upon the
evidence adduced at the appeal hearing. At the appeal hearing, the parties may:
   (1)   Be represented by legal counsel or other representation or
spokesperson;
   (2)   Present witnesses and offer evidence;
   (3)   Confront and cross-examine witnesses appearing and testifying at the
hearing; and
   (4)   Make or have made a record of the proceeding at his or her own
expense.
   The appealing party may examine and copy, not less than three (3) business
days prior to the appeal hearing the City Fire Chief's records pertaining to
all matters directly relevant to the dispute or utilized in any way by the City
Fire Chief in reaching the decision which is being appealed. (Ord. No. 624, 12/
3/90)
§ 7-217   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of §7-211
through §7-213 of this Ordinance, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not more than fifty ($50.00) dollars for the
first offense and shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars
for a second and subsequent offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have
been committed every twenty-four (24) hours of such failure to comply. (Ord.
No. 624, 12/3/90)
Article 3. Poisonous and Flammable Gases
§ 7-301   PETROLEUM GAS.
Any person desiring to store or keep in their possession liquefied petroleum
gas shall place the containers outside of buildings on nonflammable docks or
platforms and no such container shall at any time be stored within a building
of any kind. (Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
§ 7-302   POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES.
Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to store or keep in the Municipality
for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or liquefied
petroleum gas or add to, enlarge, or replace any facility used for the storage
of such gases, must first get permission from the Governing Body. The Governing
Body shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage, and the amount of
gas stored. If permission is granted, the Governing Body shall prescribe such
rules, regulations, and precautionary actions as they may deem necessary.
Permit requirements for the initial construction or location of storage
facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the effective
date of this ordinance; Provided, any such present use that is discontinued for
a period of sixty (60) days shall not be revived without a permit. The
provisions of this section shall be controlling throughout the Municipality and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
§ 7-303 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE GASES AND EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE REGISTRATION.
Any person, firm, or corporation storing or keeping for any period of time
dynamite, gunpowder, nitroglycerine, or other high explosives or any form of
poisonous or flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the
Municipality shall register such information with the Municipal Clerk within
ten (10) days after such gases or explosives are brought into the Municipality.
The Clerk shall provide such information to the Municipal Fire Chief and to the
Governing Body. Transfer of gases or explosives to another individual within
the Municipality shall require the individual receiving the gases or explosives
to register the transfer and the new location of the gases or explosives with
the Municipal Clerk. Also, moving gases or explosives to a new location by the
owner shall require registration of that fact to the Municipal Clerk. This
section shall not apply to the storage of five (5) gallons or less of gasoline.
(Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
Article 4. Explosives
§ 7-401   EXPLOSIVES; STORAGE REGISTRATION.
Any person, firm, or corporation storing or keeping for any period of time
dynamite, gunpowder, nitroglycerine, or other high explosives within the
Municipality shall register such information with the Municipal Clerk within
ten (10) days after such explosives are brought into the Municipality. The
Clerk shall provide such information to the Municipal Fire Chief and to the
Governing Body. Transfer of explosives to another individual within the
Municipality shall require the individual receiving the explosives to register
the transfer and the new location of the explosives with the Municipal Clerk.
Also, moving explosives to a new location by the owner shall require
registration of that fact to the Municipal Clerk.
   All high explosives, including dynamite, gunpowder and nitroglycerine shall
be stored in a proper receptacle which shall be closed at all times, except
when actually in use. Such cement, metal, or stone receptacle shall not be
located in any room where there is a flame or flammable materials. The area
surrounding storage facilities shall be kept clear of rubbish, brush, dry
grass, or trees for not less than twenty-five (25') feet in all directions. Any
other combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not less than fifty
(50') feet from outdoor storage facilities. (Ref. 17-549 RS Neb.)
§ 7-402   EXPLOSIVES; BLASTING PERMITS.
Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the Municipality must
secure a permit from the Governing Body and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with their direction and under their supervision, and in no case
shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user's permit issued by the
State Fire Marshal. (Ref. 17-556, 28-1229 RS Neb.)
§ 7-403   EXPLOSIVES; TRANSPORTATION.
Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the Municipality shall first
acquire a permit from the Municipal Police and shall take such precautions and
use such route as he may prescribe. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply
to the Municipal Police, or any of the Armed Services of the United States. No
vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled stop for longer than
five (5) minutes within the Municipality and in the event of mechanical
failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the Police Chief who
shall then prescribe such precautions as may be necessary to protect the
residents of the Municipality and a reasonable time for removal of the vehicle
from the Municipality. (Ref. 17-549, 28-1235 RS Neb.)
Article 5. Fireworks
§ 7-501   FIREWORKS; PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to sell fireworks of any description
whatsoever, except those approved by the Nebraska State Fire Marshal under
Title 157, Chapter 8, Nebraska Administrative Code - Permissible Fireworks in
the State of Nebraska for 2010. Fireworks of any description are permissible
for purposes of public exhibitions or displays as authorized by the Nebraska
State Fire Marshal, and said vendor shall secure a Nebraska State Fire Marshal
license prior to such sales. Color wheels, toy cap pistols and permissible caps
may be sold at retail at all times, provided that all other fireworks named may
be sold only between June 28 and July 5.
(Ref. 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244, 28-1245 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. No. 785, 8/
18/03; 1010, 7/20/20)
§ 7-502   FIREWORKS; THROWING FIRECRACKERS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object; from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any street, highway, or sidewalk; at or near any person; into any
building; or into or at any group of persons.
(Ref. 17-556, 28-1242 RS Neb.)
§ 7-503   FIREWORKS; HOURS OF DISCHARGE.
Any person(s) shall be permitted to discharge any form of lawful fireworks
during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. on the dates of June 28 through
July 3 of each year. On July 4, discharge of fireworks shall be permitted from
the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 12:05 a.m. of the following day, July 5, of each
year. The discharge of fireworks within the City of Saint Paul on any dates or
times other than as set out in this section shall require prior approval of the
City Council.
(Ref. 28-1246 through 28-1250 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 785, 8/18/03 and
misprint of dates corrected 6/28/05; 1001, 4/15/19; 1010, 7/20/20)
§ 7-504   FIREWORKS; PUBLIC DISPLAY OR EXHIBITION.
Fireworks may be permissible for purposes of public exhibitions or displays as
authorized by the City Council. Displays or public exhibitions requiring a
permit by the Nebraska State Fire Marshal pursuant to RS Neb. Title 157 or 28-
1239.01, shall be obtained prior to seeking City Council approval. (Ord. No.
1001, 4/15/19)
Article 6. Penal Provision
§ 7-601   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
Chapter 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Article 1. Municipal Property
§ 8-101   DEFINITIONS.
The following definitions shall be applied throughout this Chapter. When no
definition is specified, the normal dictionary usage of the word shall apply.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. That portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 8-102   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
The Governing Body shall have the care, supervision, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the
Municipality, and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair, and free
from nuisances. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.) 
§ 8-103   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   The procedure for the sale of real property by the City of St. Paul,
the total fair market value of which is equal to or greater than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00), shall be as follows:
      (1)   The City of St. Paul (hereinafter "City") shall convey any real
property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and public squares,
except real property used in the operation of public utilities, by resolution
directing the sale of such real property.
      (2)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of
all proposed sales of property described in division (A)(1) above, and the
terms of such sales shall be published once each week for three (3) consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the City, or if
there is no legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the City, then
within a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within Howard County,
Nebraska.
      (3)   (a)   If within thirty (30) days after the third publication of the
notice a remonstrance petition against such sale is signed by registered voters
of the City equal in number to 30% of the registered voters within the City
limits of the City voting at the last regular Municipal election held in the
City and is filed with the City Council for the City of St. Paul (hereinafter
"City Council"), such property shall not then, nor within one (1) year
thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the thirty
(30)-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or
postmarked on or before the next business day. Upon the receipt of the
petition, the City Council, with the aid and assistance of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk in and for Howard County, Nebraska (hereinafter
"Election Commissioner or County Clerk"), shall determine the validity and
sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City Council shall deliver the
petition to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by hand carrier, by use
of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return receipt requested.
Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in the custody
of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing the petition
with the voter registration records to determine if each signer was a
registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed with the
City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the
signer's printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and city or post
office address with the voter registration records to determine whether the
signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to
be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the
printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and city or post office
address matches the registration records and that the registration was received
on or before the date on which the petition was filed with the City Council.
The determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted
by any credible evidence which the Governing Body finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the petition, the
sufficiency of the petition, and the qualifications of the signer, shall be to
prevent fraud, deception, and misrepresentation in the petition process. Upon
completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a
certification under seal setting forth the name and address of each signer
found not to be a registered voter and the signature page number and line
number where the name is found, and if the reason for the invalidity of the
signature or address is other than the non- registration of the signer, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason for the
invalidity of the signature. If Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once to the
petition and that only one (1) person is registered by that name, the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification under
seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count only the
earliest dated signature. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
certify to the City Council the number of valid signatures necessary to
constitute a valid petition. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
deliver the petition and the certifications to the Governing Body within forty
(40) days after the receipt of the petition from the City Council. The delivery
shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Not more than twenty (20) signatures on one
signature page shall be counted.
         (b)   The City Council shall, within thirty days (30) after the
receipt of the petition and certifications from the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk, hold a public hearing to review the petition and certifications
and receive testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the
hearing, vote on whether or not the petition is valid and shall uphold the
petition if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
      (4)   Real property now owned or hereafter owned by the City may be
conveyed without consideration to the State of Nebraska for state armory sites
or, if acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of the laws of the State of Nebraska.
      (5)   (a)   Following:
            1.   Passage of the resolution directing a sale;
            2.   Publishing of the notice of the proposed sale; and
            3.   Passing of the thirty (30)-day right-of- remonstrance period,
the property shall then be sold.
         (b)   Such sale shall be confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating
the name of the purchaser and terms of the sale.
      (6)   Notwithstanding the procedures in division (A)(1) through (5)
above, real property owned by the City may be conveyed when such property:
         (a)   Is sold in compliance with the requirements of federal or state
grants or programs;
         (b)   Is conveyed to another public agency; or
         (c)   Consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The procedure for the sale of real property by the City of St. Paul,
the total fair market value of which is less than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), shall be as follows:
      (1)   Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three (3) prominent places
within the City for a period of not less than seven (7) days prior to the sale
of the property. The notice shall give a general description of the property
offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of
the sale shall be made by passage of an ordinance. (Amended by Ord. No. 988, 2/
20/18)
§ 8-104   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs, growing upon, or near, the lot line, or upon public ground
and interfering with the use, or construction of any public improvements shall
be deemed an obstruction under this Article.
   Said roots may be removed by the Municipality at the expense of the owner of
the property upon which the tree is located should the owner fail, or neglect,
after notice, to do so. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, or
corporation to obstruct, or encumber, by fences, gates, buildings, structures,
or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys, or sidewalks.
   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when the
owner or occupant of the adjacent property shall permit or suffer to remain on
any premise owned or controlled by him any hedge, shrubbery, bush, or similar
growth within ten (10) feet adjacent to the lot line whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining such premise or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   Whenever any such growth is allowed to grow within two (2) feet of the lot
line contrary to the provisions of this Article, the Governing Body may pass a
resolution ordering the owner or occupant to remove such obstructions within
five (5) days after having been served with a copy of said resolution by the
Municipality stating that the Municipality will do so and will charge the costs
thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as
herein provided, or shall collect the same by civil suit brought in the name of
the Municipality against the said owner or occupant.
   It shall be the duty of an owner or occupant engaged in construction of any
building or improvement upon or near the public ways and property to have all
excavations or exposures of any kind protected and guarded by suitable guards
or barricades by day and by warning lights at night. In the event of failure,
neglect, or refusal to comply with the provisions of this Article, it shall be
the duty of the Municipality to stop all work upon said buildings and
improvements until suitable guards are erected and kept in the manner
aforesaid.
   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground and
partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property, but
so close to the lot line as to interfere with the making of any public
improvement or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wires or
pipe shall be deemed an obstruction and such trees, shrubs, and roots may be
removed by the Municipality pursuant to the procedure prescribed above.
   On a corner lot in all districts except Central Business, nothing shall be
erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially
impede vision between a height of two and one half and ten feet above the
centerline grades of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the lot
lines of such corner lots and a line joining points along said lot lines fifty
(50) feet from the point of the intersection.
   In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-105   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; TREES.
No person, or persons, shall plant, or allow to grow, any tree within the
sidewalk space without first making a written, or verbal, application to, and
receiving a written permit from the Utilities Superintendent.
Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption date of this
section shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and shall, at the
discretion of the Governing Body, be deemed to be a nuisance.
When any such tree is declared to be a nuisance, the Governing Body shall
order, with proper notice, the tree removed at the expense of the owner of the
property adjacent to the sidewalk space upon which the tree has been unlawfully
planted.
If the property owner fails, or neglects, to remove, or cause to be removed,
the said tree, the Governing Body shall order the same removed and assess the
expense of such removal against the property
adjacent to the sidewalk space wherein the tree is planted and growing. In the
event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the property
lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment against
that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be published by
means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last known address of
the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall be that address
listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required notice was first
published.
No fee shall be charged for said permit, and nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to any existing trees now growing within the sidewalk space.
(Ref. 17-557.01, 18-1720 RS Neb.)
§ 8-106   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking, or
repairing of any building, or the construction, or repair, of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such persons shall make application to and
receive a permit in writing from the Municipal official in charge of Municipal
streets to do so; Provided, no permit for the occupancy of the sidewalk space,
and more than one-third (1/3) of the roadway of the public space adjacent to
the real estate on which said building is to be constructed, erected,
reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired shall be granted; and provided further, a
suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space
included in the permit which shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the official issuing the permit.
§ 8-107   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; WEEDS.
It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his duly authorized
agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the corporate limits for
growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and noxious weeds are
found growing thereon, he shall notify the owner or occupant thereof, to cut
down such weeds as close to the ground as can be practicably done and keep the
weeds cut thereon in like manner during the growing season for weeds; Provided,
any weeds growing in excess of eighteen (18") inches shall be considered a
violation of this section.
In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land within the
Municipality is a non-resident of the Municipality or cannot be found therein
the notice may be given to any person having the care, custody, or control of
such lot or parcel of land.
In the event that there can be found no one within the Municipality to whom
notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner or his
agent to post a copy of the notice on the premise and then to cut or cause the
weeds thereon to be cut as therein provided and report the cost thereof in
writing to the Governing Body.
The cost shall then be audited and paid by the Municipality and the amount
thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special tax
thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of the Municipality or may be
recovered by civil suit brought by the Municipality against the owner of the
parcel of land.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
§ 8-108   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight (8') feet above the surface of said walk or fourteen
(14') feet above the surface of said street.
Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or trees extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights, or with the convenience of the
public using said street or sidewalk, the Governing Body at any regular or
special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or
remove said obstructions within five (5) days after having received a copy
thereof from the Street Commissioner or Utilities Superintendent stating that
the Municipality will remove said branches and charge the costs thereof to the
owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as herein provided,
if said resolution is not complied with.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-109   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION, ELECTIONS
WHEN REQUIRED.
The Municipality is authorized and empowered to (1) purchase, (2) accept by
gift or devise, (3) purchase real estate upon which to erect, and (4) erect a
building or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, Municipal building, or
community house for housing Municipal enterprises and social and recreation
purposes, and other public buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the
same for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Municipality.
   Except as provided below, any such purchase can be made or building erected,
the question shall be submitted to the electors of such City or Village at a
General Municipal Election or at an election duly called for that purpose, or
as set forth in section 17-954 RS Neb., and be adopted by a majority of the
electors voting on such questions.
   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building under this section are available other than through a bond issue,
notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality and no election shall be
required to approve such purchase or construction unless a remonstrance against
such purchase or construction, signed by electors of the Municipality equal in
number to fifteen (15%) percent of the electors of the Municipality voting at
the last regular Municipal Election held therein, is filed with the Governing
Body within thirty (30) days of the publication of such notice.
If a remonstrance with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely
filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of the Municipality at a
General Municipal Election or a Special Election duly called for that purpose.
If such purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved shall
not then, nor within one (1) year thereafter, be purchased or constructed.
(Ref. 17-953 RS Neb.)
Article 2. Sidewalks
§ 8-201   SIDEWALKS; KEPT CLEAN.
It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon said sidewalk. All sidewalks within
the business district shall be cleaned within five (5) hours after the
cessation of a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall have taken place
during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned before nine (9\:
00) o'clock A.M. the following day; Provided, sidewalks within the residential
areas of the Municipality shall be cleaned within twenty-four (24) hours after
the cessation of the storm. (Ref. 17-557 RS Neb.)
§ 8-202   SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE.
Every owner of any lot, lots, or piece of land within the corporate limits
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalk along and contiguous to said
lot, lots, or pieces of land, as the case may be, in good and proper repair,
and in a condition reasonably safe for travel for all travelers thereon.
In the event that the owner or owners of any lot, lots, or lands, abutting on
any street, avenue, or part thereof shall fail to construct or repair any
sidewalk in front of his, her, or their lot, lots, or lands, within the time
and in the manner as directed and required herein after having received due
notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages or injury occasioned by
reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the
Governing Body shall have power to cause any such sidewalks to be constructed
or repaired and assess the costs thereof against such property.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-557.01 RS Neb.)
§ 8-203   SIDEWALKS; REPAIR.
The Municipal official in charge of sidewalks may require sidewalks of the
Municipality to be repaired. Notice to the owners of property upon which such
sidewalks in disrepair are located shall require within forty-eight (48) hours
from issuance of notice said owners to make arrangements to have the sidewalk
repaired.
Said repairs shall be completed within twenty-one (21) days after issuance of
said notice.
No special assessment shall be levied against the property unless said owner
shall neglect or refuse to repair within the time prescribed and in the event
that such owner fails to repair, the Municipality shall cause the repairs to be
made and assess the property owner the expense of such repairs.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
§ 8-204   SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any sidewalk
shall do so only as herein provided.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any sidewalk without first
having obtained a permit.
   Said owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   The permit shall give a description of the lot, or piece of land along which
the sidewalk is to be constructed. The official in charge of sidewalks shall
issue the desired permit unless good cause shall appear why said permit should
be denied; Provided, if it is desired to construct the sidewalk at any other
than the regularly prescribed location, grade, or elevation, the Municipal
official in charge of sidewalks shall submit the application to the Planning
Commission which shall recommend to the Governing Body whether the permit
should be granted or denied.
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be constructed
said sidewalk at any other location, grade, or elevation than so designated by
the Municipality.
All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade, or
elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or elevation
indicated by the Planning Commission.
§ 8-205   SIDEWALKS; MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
The Governing Body may, by resolution, order the construction of a sidewalk on
any lot or piece of ground within the Municipality.
Notice of the Governing Body's intention to construct said sidewalk shall be
given by the Municipal Clerk by publication of notice one (1) time in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality.
A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property, or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be sent by First Class Mail to such premise ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of construction. The notice required in this section shall be
prepared by the Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this
section. Such service shall include a form of return evidencing personal
service or posting as herein required.
Said notice shall notify the owner of the premise of the passage of the
resolution ordering him to construct or cause to be constructed a sidewalk
within thirty (30) days after the date of publication and further that if he
fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the time
allowed, the Municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed and the
cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the premise;
Provided, the notice shall contain the official estimate of the cost of said
construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate shall be
assessed against the property.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-522, 17-523 RS
Neb.)
§ 8-206   SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BIDS.
Whenever the Municipality shall construct, widen, replace, or reconstruct any
sidewalk, notice prepared by the Municipal Attorney, specifying the work to be
done and calling for bids for doing such work and supplying the necessary
materials and labor shall be published in at least one (1) issue of a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the Municipality; Provided, bids so invited
shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk within ten (10) days after
the date of publication. Bids shall be opened at the next regular or special
meeting of the Governing Body, and the Governing Body shall then award the work
to the lowest responsible bidder.
Upon approval of the work, the Governing Body may require the contractor to
accept payment in certificates issued to him by the Municipal Clerk entitling
him to all assessments or special taxes, against such real estate whenever such
assessments or special taxes, shall be collected together with the interest or
penalty collected thereon. Each certificate shall give the legal description of
the lot, lots, or parcel of ground against which the assessments or special
taxes are assessed.
Such certificate or certificates may be assigned and transferred, entitling the
holder to the same rights as if held by the original contractor.
The County Treasurer shall pay over to such contractor or other holder of the
certificate or certificates all assessments or special taxes against such real
estate, together with the interest and penalty thereon, at any time upon
presentation of such certificate or certificates after said assessments or
special taxes against such real estate together with interest or penalty
thereon shall have been collected.
§ 8-207   SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
If the owners of the record title respresenting more than sixty (60%) percent
of the front footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment
for sidewalk improvements, petition the Governing Body to make the same, the
Governing Body shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been
ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the Governing Body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this Article upon the
freeholder making, executing, and delivering to the Municipality an agreement
to the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service
fee and all other incidental construction costs until paid shall be a perpetual
lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such sidewalk to
be constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the Municipality the
right to assess and levy the costs of such construction against the
freeholder's real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and promises to pay
such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement shall be levied,
allocated, financed, and specially assessed as provided by law.
In the event the property owner is a non-resident of the county in which the
property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested to the last
known address of the non-resident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
Article 3. Streets
§ 8-301   STREETS; NAMES AND NUMBERS.
The Governing Body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the Governing Body
may require. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or Municipal
Clerk upon the erection of any new building or buildings to assign the proper
numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner or owners
and occupant or occupants of the same.
§ 8-302   STREETS; CROSSINGS.
The Governing Body may order and cause to be constructed, under the supervision
of the Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner such street, avenue, and
alley crossings as the Governing Body shall deem necessary. When a petition for
the construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in
the office of the Municipal Clerk, said Municipal Clerk shall refer such
application to the Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner who shall
investigate and make his recommendation to the Governing Body. Action by the
Governing Body on such application, whether the application is approved or
rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 8-303   STREETS; WIDENING OR OPENING.
The Governing Body shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley, or
lane within the limits of the Municipality; to create, open, and improve any
new street, alley, or lane; Provided, all damages sustained shall be
ascertained in such manner as shall be provided by ordinance. (Ref. 17-558, 17-
559, 76-704 through 76-724 RS Neb.)
§ 8-304   STREETS; DRIVING STAKES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind into
the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written consent
of the Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner.
§ 8-305   STREETS; MIXING CONCRETE.
It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering material
directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
§ 8-306   STREETS; HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter of
any street, waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which damage or
act as a solvent upon said streets.\par
§ 8-307   STREETS; EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling
house or business building within the limits of the Municipality where the said
dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street without first getting
permission of the Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner. All eave
spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building shall be constructed
to drain into the alleys, or shall be buried beneath the sidewalks and drain
into the streets where it is found to be impossible to drain said eave spouts
into the alley.
§ 8-308   STREETS; EXCAVATIONS.
In making excavations in the streets or alleys for the laying of pipe or making
repairs, the planks or paving stones and earth removed must be deposited in a
manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the public and provide for
a passage of water along the gutters. Barricades and lights must be provided
pursuant to section 9-103.
   In refilling the opening, the earth must be laid in layers of not more than
nine (9") inches in depth and each layer thoroughly tamped with a mechanical
tamper. The streets, sidewalks and pavements must be restored to as good
condition as previous to making the excavation, and all dirt, stones, and
rubbish must be removed immediately after completing the work. Should any
excavation in any street, alley, or highway be left open or unfinished for the
space of twenty-four (24) hours or more, or should the work be improperly done,
or the rubbish not be removed, then the Utilities Superintendent or Street
Commissioner shall have the right to finish or correct the work and the expense
incurred shall be charged to the person or persons responsible for making such
excavation, and shall be paid by said person or persons before the applicable
utility is turned on. No opening of the streets for the tapping of mains will
be permitted when the ground is frozen except by permission of the Utilities
Superintendent or Street Commissioner. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
§ 8-309   STREETS; HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or person to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk,
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such
curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing. Hereafter, it
shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or across any
paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels
that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels
having lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain
tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter, or curb; Provided, where heavy vehicles, structures, and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets the Utilities Superintendent or
Street Commissioner are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route
over which the moving of such vehicles, structures, or machines will be
permitted and allowed. Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to
pneumatic tires with metal or metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths
(5/16) of an inch in diameter inclusive of the stud- casting with an average
protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more than seven sixty-fourths (7/64)
of an inch between November 1, and March 15; Provided, that school buses and
emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-type studs all
year; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the streets.
It shall be permissible to use a rubber tired crane with a fixed load when such
vehicle will be transported on a state highway or on any road within the
corporate limits of the Municipality, the Municipality in which the crane is
intended to be transported has authorized a one-day (1) permit for the
transportation of the crane and specified the route to be used and the hours
during which the crane can be transported, such vehicle is escorted by another
vehicle or vehicles assigned by the Municipality, and such vehicle's gross
weight does not exceed the limits set out in 39-6,180(10) RS Neb. and it shall
be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle
when required for safety because of snow, ice, or other condition tending to
cause a vehicle to slide or skid. (Ref. 39-6,131 RS Neb.)
§ 8-310   STREETS; CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
The Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner shall notify the owners in
fee simple of real estate abutting a street, alley, or a part thereof which is
to be put under contract for paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to
all gas, electric service, and telephone companies. Notice shall also be given
to all consumers of gas, water, and sewer services which will be discontinued
during such construction. Said notice shall be published one (1) time in a
legal newspaper at least twenty (20) days prior to the beginning of such
construction by the party undertaking such construction and said notice shall
state at what date connections must be made and excavation completed. All gas,
water, sewer, and underground connections must be made prior to the paving or
repaving of the street under construction. After expiration of such time,
permits for excavation will not be issued, nor will excavation be allowed,
until after the completion of the pavement in said street or alley, and the
formal final acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the Municipality.
§ 8-311   STREETS; PIPE LINES AND WIRES.
Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and other appurtenances of public service
companies shall be located, or erected over, upon, or under the streets,
alleys, and common grounds of the Municipality. Application for location of the
above shall be made to the Governing Body in writing. Approval by that body
shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a right-of-way
for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines, and
wires shall at all times erect and locate their poles, wires, gas mains, pipe
lines, and other appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be
designated by the Governing Body. Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, and
other appurtenances, shall be removed or relocated by said companies at their
own expense when requested to do so by the Governing Body. Any such relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Governing Body and the Municipal Clerk
shall notify any and all companies affected. Said companies shall, within
twenty-four (24) hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the
poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances to be removed. The
Governing Body shall designate another location as closely as possible where
said poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances, may be reset
or placed. All poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or other appurtenances,
shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they will not
interfere with the water system; sewerage system; poles, wires, and mains of
any public utility; adjacent buildings; or with travel on the public ways and
property. Whenever possible, all pole lines, wires, gas mains, pipe lines, or
appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the Municipality.
§ 8-312   STREETS; CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be authorized
by law, the Governing Body shall have power and authority to levy and collect
special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground adjacent to,
abutting upon, or especially benefiting from, the street, avenue, alley, or
sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and guttered,
graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended, constructed,
or otherwise improved or repaired. The Governing Body sitting as the Board of
Equalization shall review all such improvements in accordance with the
procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by the
Governing Body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the Municipality at least four (4) weeks before the
same shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may
be had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as ''special assessments for improvements'' and with
the cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other Municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said County unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a non-resident of
the county in which the property lies, the Municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested to the last known address of the non-resident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published. (Ref. 17-511, 17-524 RS Neb.)
§ 8-313   STREETS; PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
Whenever a petition signed by the owners of record title representing more than
sixty (60%) percent of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon
the street, streets, alley, alleys, public way, or the public grounds proposed
to be improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk,
petitioning therefor, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such
work to be done or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor,
and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or
adjacent to such street, streets, alley, or alleys, especially benefited
thereby in such district in proporation to such benefits, to pay the cost of
such improvement. The Governing Body shall have the discretion to deny the
formation of the proposed district when the area has not previously been
improved with a water system, sewer system, and grading of streets. If the
Governing Body should deny a requested improvement district formation, it shall
state the grounds for such denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Ref. 17-510 RS Neb.)
§ 8-314   STREETS; IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS, OBJECTIONS.
Whenever the Governing Body shall deem it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute, the Governing Body shall by ordinance create a paving,
graveling, or other improvement district or districts, and after the passage,
approval, and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish notice of
the creation of any such district or districts for six (6) days in a legal
newspaper of the Municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive
weeks, if the same be a weekly newspaper. If the owners of the record title
representing more than fifty (50%) percent of the front footage of the property
directly abutting on the street, streets, alley, or alleys to be improved,
shall file with the Municipal Clerk within twenty (20) days after the first
publication of said notice, written objections to the creation of such district
or districts, said improvements shall not be made as provided in said
ordinance; but said ordinance shall be repealed. If said objections are not
filed against the district in the time and manner aforesaid, the Governing Body
shall forthwith cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, and
shall contract therefor, and shall levy assessments on the lots and parcels of
land abutting on or adjacent to such street, streets, alley or alleys
especially benefited thereby in such district in proportion to such benefits,
to pay the cost of such improvement. (Ref. 17-511 RS Neb.)
§ 8-315   STREETS; IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
The Mayor and Council shall have the power to improve any street or part
thereof which divides the Municipal corporate area and the area adjoining the
Municipality. When creating an improvement district including land adjacent to
the Municipality, the Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefited thereby. (Ref. 17-509 RS Neb.)
§ 8-316   STREETS; DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
Whenever the Governing Body of a Municipality creates a paving district which
includes land adjacent to the Municipality which is within an agricultural use
zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners of record title
of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special assessments. For
purposes of this section, the terms agricultural use and agricultural use zone
shall have the meaning specified in section 77-1343 Reissue Revised Statutes of
Nebraska 1943.
   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this section
shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the Governing Body of the
Municipality within ninety (90) days after creation of the paving district. Any
owner of record title who makes application for the deferral provided by this
section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such application in
writing prior to approval by the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall
approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination that
the property (a) is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use, and (b) the owner has met the requirements of this section.
   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any of
the following events:
   1.   Notification by the owner of record title to the Governing Body to
remove such deferral;
   2.   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within sixty (60) days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in
subdivision 3 of this section.
   3.   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who does
not make application within one hundred twenty-five (125) days of the transfer;
   4.   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
   5.   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this section
becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of such
property shall pay to the Municipality an amount equal to:
      A.   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      B.   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the rate
of six (6%) percent from the dates at which such assessments would have been
payable if no deferral had been granted.
   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as a
result of a sale or transfer described in subdivision 2 or 3 of this section
the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such
sale or transfer. (Ref. 19-2428 through 19-2431 RS Neb.)
§ 8-317   STREETS; DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
The Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner may require the owner of
property served by a driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the
street right-of-way to repair or replace any such driveway approach which is
cracked, broken, or otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or
is likely to cause damage to or interfere with any street structure including
pavement or sidewalks.
The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered letter
or certified mail, directed to the last-known address of such owner or the
agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such driveway
approach. If within thirty (30) days of mailing such notice the property owner
fails or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the
Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner may cause such work to be done
and assess the cost upon the property served by such approach. (Ref. 18-1748 RS
Neb.)
Article 4. Curb and Gutter
§ 8-401   CURB AND GUTTER; CUTTING CURB.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or sidewalk
for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose whatsoever
without first having obtained a written permit from the Governing Body
therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he shall inform the
Municipal Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be
the Utilities Superintendent's or Street Commissioner's duty to inspect the
place of entry into the paving, sidewalk, or curb, before the same is cut. When
cutting into any paving, it shall be the duty of the party to cut the paving
under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Governing Body or
the Municipal Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made,
he shall inform the Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening. It shall be discretionary with the Governing Body to order the
Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner, to do the work of cutting and
closing the paving and charge the costs thereof to the party who obtained such
permit. The Governing Body may consent to the work of cutting and closing the
paving to be done by the party holding such permit. Before any permit is issued
by the Governing Body, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with the
Municipal Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body for all
paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a per square foot
cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by the Municipality
for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk, in the event the
work is done by the Municipality. In the event the Municipality elects to
require the applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit
shall be retained by the Municipality until the work is completed to the
satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent or Street Commissioner. In
addition to making the deposit above set forth, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the Municipality with a good and sufficient
surety or sureties to be approved by the Governing Body in a sum set by
resolution of the Governing Body. (Ref. 17-567 RS Neb.)
Article 5. Penal Provision
§ 8-501   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
Chapter 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article 1. Building Inspector
§ 9-101   BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWER AND AUTHORITY.
The Building Inspector shall be the Municipal official who shall have the duty
of enforcing all building and housing regulations as herein prescribed. He
shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or moved in the
Municipality as often as necessary to insure compliance with all Municipal
ordinances. He shall have the power and authority to order at the direction of
the Governing Body, all work stopped on any construction, alteration, or
relocation which violates any provisions prescribed herein. He shall at the
direction of the Governing Body, issue permission to continue any construction,
alteration, or relocation when the Governing Body is satisfied that no
provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one (1) hour. Such written order may be
served by any Municipal Policeman. In the event that the Governing Body fails
to appoint a Building Inspector, the Utilities Superintendent shall be the
Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 9-102   BUILDING INSPECTOR; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building Inspector
entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
§ 9-103   BUILDING INSPECTOR; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
It shall be the duty of the owner, tenant, or lessee causing the construction,
demolition, or moving of any building or improvement within the Municipality to
have during such work all excavations, open basements, building materials, and
debris protected by suitable guards or barricades by day, and by warning lights
at night.
The failure, neglect, or refusal of said persons to erect such guards shall
constitute a violation of this section and the Municipal Police or the Building
Inspector shall stop all work until guards are erected and maintained as
required.
Article 2. Building Permits
§ 9-201   BUILDING PERMITS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 957, 3/21/16)
§ 9-202   BUILDING PERMITS; FEES.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 957, 3/21/16)
§ 9-203    BUILDING PERMIT; LIMITATIONS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 957, 3/21/16)
§ 9-204   BUILDING PERMIT; VIOLATIONS.
   (Repealed by Ord. No. 957, 3/21/16)
Article 3. Building Moving
§ 9-301    BUILDING MOVING; REGULATIONS.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to move any building
or structure within the Municipality without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the Municipal Clerk, and shall include the present
and future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the
equipment to be used, and such other information as the Governing Body may
require. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the said building is presently located. The Municipal Clerk shall
refer the said application to the Municipal Police for approval of the proposed
route over which the said building is to be moved. Upon approval of the
Governing Body, the Municipal Clerk shall then issue the said permit; Provided,
that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount
set by motion of the Governing Body and conditioned upon moving said building
without doing damage to any private or Municipal property is filed with the
Municipal Clerk prior to the granting of any permit. No moving permit shall be
required to move a building that is ten feet (10') wide, or less, and twenty
feet (20') long, or less, and when in a position to move, fifteen feet (15')
high, or less. In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building
mover to interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas
line, the company or companies owning, using, or operating the said poles,
wires or line shall upon proper notice of at least twenty-four (24) hours, be
present and assist by disconnecting the said poles, wires, or line relative to
the building moving operation. All expense of the said disconnection, removal,
or related work shall be paid in advance by the licensee unless such
disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as provided in the said
company's franchise. Whenever the moving of any building necessitates
interference with a water main, sewer main, pipes, or wire
belonging to the Municipality, notice in writing of the time and route of the
said building moving operation shall be given to the various Municipal
officials in charge of the Municipal utility departments who shall proceed in
behalf of the Municipality and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary. (Ref. 17-142, 39-6,177 through
39-6,179, 39-6,180, 39-6,184, 77-1725 RS Neb.)
§ 9-302   BUILDING MOVING; DEPOSIT.
At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building Inspector
shall inspect the premises and report to the Municipal Clerk as to the extent
of damages, if any, resulting from the said relocation and whether any
Municipal laws have been violated during the said operation. Upon a
satisfactory report from the Building Inspector, the Municipal Clerk shall
return the corporate surety bond, cash, or check deposited by the applicant. In
the event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not properly filled,
covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the Governing Body may apply the
money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the said
conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater
than the amount of the deposit set by resolution of the Governing Body, as
required herein, the Governing Body may recover such excess expense by civil
suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
§ 9-303   DESTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.
It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or other legal
entity to tear down or demolish by tearing down, incinerating or any other
means to remove, any building or structure within the City without first
obtaining a permit to do so. Application shall be made in writing to the City
Clerk and shall include the present location of the building to be demolished,
how it will be demolished, how materials and debris will be removed from the
premises and disposed of and such other information as the City Council may
require. The applicant, if other than the owner, shall also furnish good and
sufficient evidence of his/her authority to tear down or demolish said
building. The City Clerk shall refer the said application to the Building
Administrator and report to the City Council. Upon approval of the City
Council, the City Clerk shall then issue the permit; provided that all removal
of debris and filing of excavations will be completed within six (6) months of
issuance of the permit. If not completed within said time, a new permit, fee
and deposit (if needed) will be obtained and paid. (Ord. No. 913, 1/17/12)
Article 4. Unsafe Buildings
§ 9-401   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; DEFINITION.
The term "unsafe building" as used in this Article is hereby defined to mean
and include any building, shed, fence, or other man-made structure (a) which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures; (b) which because of faulty construction, age, lack of
proper repair, or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes
or creates a fire hazard; (c) which by reason of faulty construction or any
other cause is liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all
or any part of such structure. Any such unsafe building in the Municipality is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
§ 9-402   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; PROHIBITION.
It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe building
in the Municipality and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person
in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an unsafe
condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied while it is in
an unsafe condition.
§ 9-403   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; DETERMINATION AND NOTICE.
Whenever the building inspector, the fire official, the health official, Board
of Health, or the Governing Body shall be of the opinion that any building or
structure in the Municipality is an unsafe building, he shall file a written
statement to this effect with the Municipal Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon
cause the property to be posted accordingly, and shall file a copy of such
determination in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and shall serve
written notice upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any,
by certified mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in an unsafe condition; and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be remedied within
sixty (60) days from the date of receipt. Such notice may be in the following
terms:
   "To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the
premise known and described as _________________________________.
   "You are hereby notified that __________________________________(describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by
__________________________________________. The causes for this decision are
__________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
   "You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within sixty (60)
days from the date of receipt of this notice or the Municipality will proceed
to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the Governing Body,
acting as the Board of Appeals, by filing with the Municipal Clerk within ten
(10) days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing."
   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken an
appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists within ten (10) days from the time when this notice
is served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Building
Inspector may, upon orders of the Governing Body, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the unsafe building.
§ 9-404   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; HEARING AND APPEAL.
Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the owner of the
building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the Municipal Clerk
request a hearing before the Governing Body, sitting as the Board of Appeals,
to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or demolished. The
Governing Body shall grant such hearing within ten (10) days from the date of
receiving the request. A written notice of the Governing Body's decision
following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If
the Governing Body rejects the appeal, the owner shall have five (5) days from
the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If after
the five (5) day period the owner has not begun work, the Governing Body shall
proceed to cause such work to be done; Provided, the property owner may appeal
such decision to the appropriate court for adjudication during which
proceedings the decision of the Governing Body shall be stayed. Where the
Municipality has not adopted a building code, the statutes of Nebraska relating
to bonded indebtedness and collection of delinquent taxes shall apply.
§ 9-405   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; EMERGENCY.
Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the health,
safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner fails to
remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the Municipality may summarily repair or demolish and
remove such building or structure.
§ 9-406   UNSAFE BUILDINGS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect, or refuse
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the Municipality to repair,
rehabilitate, or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe
and a public nuisance, the Municipality may proceed with the work specified in
the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of such work shall be
transmitted to the Governing Body, which is authorized to levy the cost as a
special assessment against the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on
the real estate and shall be collected in the manner provided for special
assessments. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722, 18-1722.01, 77-1725 RS Neb.)
Article 5. Adopted Codes
§ 9-501   PLUMBING CODE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
To provide certain minimum standards, provisions, and requirements for safe and
stable installation, methods of connection, and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, The National Standard Plumbing Code, 1980
Edition, published by the National Association of Plumbing - Heating - Cooling
Contractors and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as said code does not conflict with the Statutes of the State of
Nebraska. One (1) copy of the Plumbing Code is on file at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall be controlling throughout the
Municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction. (Ref. 17-1001, 18-132, 19-
902, 19-922 RS Neb.)
§ 9-502   LEAD FREE INSTALLATION OR REPAIR.
When any person repairs or installs any pipe, pipe fitting, solder or flux,
that person shall use such materials that are lead free. Lead free when used
with respect to solders and flux means that it shall contain not more than two-
tenths of one per cent lead. When used with respect to pipe or pipe fittings,
it means that it contain not more than eight per cent lead.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with this Ordinance shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined
not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each offense. (Ord. No. 615,
12/4/89)
Article 6. Microwave Dishes
§ 9-601   MICROWAVE DISHES; DEFINITION.
For the purposes of this Article, the term "microwave dish" shall mean any type
of microwave antenna used for the receiving of television signals.
§ 9-602   MICROWAVE DISHES; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   In the interests of public safety and protection of existing Municipal
structures, a permit shall be required for the erection of a microwave dish.
Application for said permit shall be made to the Municipal Clerk, and shall
contain all the necessary information and documents required for the protection
of residents and structures of the Municipality. Said applicant shall be
required to pay any fees as set by the Governing Body. Any person or persons
granted a permit shall be subject to the limitations as provided for in this
Article. Any permit so granted shall be subject to revocation for good and
sufficient cause by the Municipal Police.  (Ref. 17-123, 17-555 through 17-557
RS Neb.)
§ 9-603   MICROWAVE DISHES; MUNICIPAL STRUCTURES.
It shall be unlawful for any microwave dish to be located either over or under
existing electric lines, telephone lines, water lines, gas lines, sewer lines,
cable television lines, or similar structure. (Ref. 17-123, 17-555 through 17-
557 RS Neb.)
§ 9-604   MICROWAVE DISHES; PUBLIC SAFETY.
It shall be unlawful for any microwave dish to be located where said dish will
obstruct the unimpaired viewing of traffic, interfere with Municipal snow
removal, or otherwise interfere with public safety. The Governing Body shall
have the power to define setback requirements for front yards, back yards, and
side yards.  (Ref. 17-123, 17-555 through 17-557 RS Neb.)
Article 7. Fences
§ 9-701   FENCES; GENERAL REGULATIONS.
Except as otherwise specifically provided in other codes and regulations, the
following regulations shall apply to the construction of fences:
   (1)   No fence shall be constructed which will constitute a traffic hazard.
   (2)   No fence shall be constructed in such manner or be of such design as
to be hazardous or dangerous to persons or animals.
   (3)   No fence in a residential district, except fences erected upon public
or parochial school grounds or in public parks and in public playgrounds, shall
be constructed of height greater than six (6) feet; except in the required
front yard where no fence may be constructed of a height greater than four (4)
feet; provided, however, that the Board of Adjustment may, as an exception,
authorize the construction of a higher fence if the Board finds the public
welfare is preserved. (Ord. No. 786, 8/18/03)
§ 9-702   FENCES; PERMIT REQUIRED AND CONDITIONS.
   (1)   No fence shall be constructed within the zoning jurisdiction of the
City unless a permit therefor is approved and issued by the Building Inspector
and is constructed in conformance with the following requirements:
      (a)   The height limitation for fences shall be six (6) feet above ground
level except as provided herein.
      (b)   A fence constructed within a front yard of a residential lot and
vegetation used as a barrier, screen, or fence along and parallel to the front
line of a residential lot shall not exceed forty-two (42) inches in height.
      (c)   A fence constructed within the portion of a side yard of a
residential lot that lies in front of a line extending perpendicularly from the
side lot line, shall not exceed four (4) feet in height, except that if the lot
is located on a corner; a fence constructed within a side yard along the side
lot line which is adjacent to a street shall not exceed six (6) feet in height.
      (d)   Where it is demonstrated that for security purposes the perimeter
fencing around a plant or building located in an area zoned as an Industrial
District must be higher than six (6) feet in height may be approved by a
Conditional Use Permit.
      (e)   Fences constructed along and parallel to lot lines separating a
residential lot from property located in a Commercial or Industrial District
shall not exceed eight (8) feet in height.
      (f)   Fences constructed along and parallel to rear and side lot lines
adjoining arterial streets, as designated by the Nebraska Department of Roads,
shall not exceed six (6) feet in height.
   (2)   Fences located within a front or side yard of a residential lot must
qualify within the definition of an open fence, except that solid fences may be
constructed along a side lot line parallel and adjacent to the lot line that is
adjacent to a Commercial District or an Industrial District. A solid fence may
be constructed in a side yard parallel and adjacent to the lot line that is
adjacent to a street. (Ord. No. 786, 8/18/03)
§ 9-703   FENCES; OBSTRUCTIONS AND USE OF BARBED WIRE.
   (1)   No fence or vegetation shall be situated or constructed in such a way
as to obstruct the vehicular traffic or otherwise create a traffic safety
hazard.
   (2)   The use of barbed wire in the construction of any fence is prohibited
except:
      (a)   Perimeter security fencing of buildings constructed in an
Industrial District. The plans and specifications for any such fencing must be
approved by the City before commencement of construction.
      (b)   Farm fencing constructed for agricultural purposes on parcels of
land twenty (20) acres or more located within the one (1) mile jurisdiction of
the City and which construction is otherwise an Agricultural District.
   (3)   All supporting posts for fence construction shall be set in concrete
except for agricultural fencing and all fences shall be maintained in good
repair. All fences shall be located inside the boundaries of the property upon
which constructed except where two (2) adjacent property owners pursuant to
written agreement filed with the City agree to build one (1) fence on the
common lot line of adjacent side yards or back yards. (Ord. No. 786, 8/18/03)
§ 9-704   FENCES; FACING AND REQUIRED OPENINGS.
   The finished surface of all fences shall face toward adjoining property or
street frontage. However, in the case of two (2) or more property owners
wishing to share a common fence line between their properties, said property
owners shall jointly determine upon which side of the common fence line the
finished face of the fence shall be placed. Such determination shall be
consistent for the entire length of the common fence line. Unless otherwise
provided by this Article, or other sections of this Code, any fence built on
residential property within required front or street side yards shall contain
openings constituting no less than fifty percent (50%) of the surface area of
the fence. (Ord. No. 786, 8/18/03)
§ 9-705   FENCES; IN EXISTENCE AS OF THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS ARTICLE.
   (1)   Any existing fence constructed pursuant to a permit issued and
approved by the City which was in conformity with the prior provisions of this
section and which was in place of said date, may remain without change in
accordance with this section notwithstanding same may be in conflict with one
(1) or more provisions of this section as amended; provided however, any
replacement or change of said existing fence or addition of a new fence, must
hereby meet the requirements of this section as amended hereby.
   (2)   All swimming pools perimeters must be enclosed at ground level by a
six (6) foot high fence in which no opening shall permit the passage of a six
(6) inch diameter sphere. All gates must have locking hardware to prevent
access when not in use.
§ 9-706   FENCES; ELECTRIC FENCES.
No electric fences shall be constructed or maintained within the City or within
its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction except in an Agricultural District as
hereinafter provided. An owner or lessee of such property may, upon application
and approval by the Building Inspector, maintain electrified fencing provided
the same shall not be energized to the extent that it is capable of causing
bodily harm to persons, be they children or adults, or to animals. Before the
Building Inspector shall approve any electrified fencing, he shall determine
that non-electrified fencing will not adequately protect the owner's property
and the owner's application for approval of electrified fencing shall set forth
in detail the reasons why non-electrified fencing will not adequately protect
his property. (Ord. No. 786, 8/18/03)
§ 9-707   PROPANE TANKS.
The Federal Regulations shall be followed. There shall not be a fifty (50)
gallon or larger propane tank in the front or side yard of a residence. Tanks
shall be secured so as not to roll. All flammable and combustible materials,
weeds, rubbish etc. shall be removed from around and under the tank. (Ord. No.
913, 1/17/12)
§ 9-801   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
§ 9-802   ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this Chapter, the Municipality may
proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner
provided by law.
   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the court
may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of abatement as a
part of the judgment in the case. (Ref. 18-1720, 18-1722 RS Neb.)
Chapter 10
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Article 1. Alcoholic Beverages
§ 10-101   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DEFINITIONS.
All words and phrases herein used are to have the definitions applied thereto,
as defined in the Liquor Control Act of the State of Nebraska. (Ref. 53-103 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-102   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale, sell, keep for
sale, or to barter any alcoholic liquors within the Municipality unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license as provided by the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act. (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-103   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LOCATION.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, maintain, manage, or
hold open to the public any establishment for the purpose of selling at retail
any alcoholic liquor within one hundred and fifty (150') feet of any church,
school, hospital, or home for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their wives
or children; Provided, this prohibition shall not apply to any location within
such distance when the said establishment has been licensed by the Nebraska
Liquor Control Commission at least two (2) years, and to hotels offering
restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants where the
selling of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if the
said hotel, club, or restaurant were licensed and in operation prior to May 24,
1935. No alcoholic liquor, other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on
the premise within three hundred (300') feet from the campus of any college
within the Municipality.  (Ref. 53-177 RS Neb.)
§ 10-104   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DWELLINGS.
Except in the case of hotels and clubs no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premise which has any access which leads from such premise to
any other portion of the same building used for dwelling or lodging purposes,
and which is permitted to be used by the public. Nothing herein shall prevent
any connection with such premise, and such other portion of the building which
is used only by the licensee, his family, or personal guests.  (Ref. 53-178 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-105   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE DISPLAYED.
Every licensee under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act shall cause his license to
be framed and hung in plain public view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premise. (Ref. 53-148 RS Neb.)
§ 10-106   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own an establishment that
sells at retail any alcoholic beverages unless said person is a resident of the
county in which the premise is located; a person of good character and
reputation; a citizen of the United States; a person who has never been
convicted of a felony or any Class I misdemeanor pursuant to Chapter 28,
Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or 12 Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1943,
or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state; a
person who has never had a liquor license revoked for cause; a person whose
premises, for which a license is sought, meets standards for fire safety as
established by the State Fire Marshal; or a person who has not acquired a
beneficial interest in more than two (2) alcoholic beverage retail
establishments since March 4, 1963; Provided, the beneficial interest
requirement in this Section shall not apply to a person applying for an
additional license for use in connection with the operation of a hotel
containing at least twenty-five (25) sleeping rooms, or where the request is
limited to on premises sale of beer only in a restaurant.  (Ref. 53-124.03, 53-
125 RS Neb.)
§ 10-107    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR APPLICATION; MUNICIPAL EXAMINATION.
Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors at
retail shall file with the Liquor Control Commission. The Commission shall then
notify the Municipal Clerk by registered or certified mail. The Governing Body
shall then meet and determine the desirability of the application and report
its recommendation for approval or denial of the application in writing to the
Nebraska Liquor Control Commission within forty-five (45) days of receipt from
the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission. The Governing Body may examine, or
cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant; examine, or cause to be
examined, the books and records of any such applicant; to hear testimony, and
to take proof for its information in the performance of its duties. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the Governing Body may
authorize its agent, Municipal Clerk or the Municipal Attorney, to act on its
behalf. The Governing Body may conduct the examination and hold the hearing
upon the receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the application.
The Governing Body shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held,
and at which time the Governing Body shall receive evidence, under oath, either
orally, or by affidavit, from the applicant and any other person concerning the
propriety of the issuance of such license. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in, or of general circulation
in, the Municipality one (1) time not less than seven (7), nor more than
fourteen (14), days before the time of the hearing. Such notice shall include,
but not be limited to, a statement that all persons desiring to give evidence
before the local Governing Body in support of or in protest against the
issuance of such license may do so at the time of the hearing. Such hearing
shall be held not more than twenty-one (21) days after the receipt of notice
from the Commission. After such hearing, the Governing Body shall cause to be
spread at large in the minute record of its proceedings a resolution
recommending either issuance or refusal of such license. The Municipal Clerk
shall thereupon mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid,a
copy of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice.
(Ref. 53-131, 53-134 RS Neb.)(Amended by Ord. No. 588, 8/4/86)
§ 10-108   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR LICENSE RENEWAL.
Retail or bottle club licenses issued by the Commission and outstanding may be
automatically renewed in the absence of a request by the Governing Body to
require the said licensee to issue an application for renewal. Any licensed
retail or bottle club establishment located in an area which is annexed to the
Municipality shall file a formal application for a license, and while such
application is pending, the licensee shall be authorized to continue all
license privileges pursuant to this Article until the original license expires,
is canceled, or revoked. If such license expires within sixty (60) days
following the annexation date of such area, the license may be renewed by order
of the Commission for not more than one (1) year.The Municipal Clerk, upon
notice from the Commission, between January tenth (10th) and January thirtieth
(30th) of each year, shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in, or of
general circulation in the Municipality, one (1) time, a notice in the form
prescribed by law of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and
beer license within the Municipality; Provided, Class C license renewal notices
shall be published between the dates of July tenth (10th) and July thirtieth
(30th) of each year. The Municipal Clerk shall then file with the Commission
proof of publication of said notice on or before February tenth (10th) of each
year or August tenth (10th) of each year for Class C licenses. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this Section, the Governing Body may
request a licensee to submit an application. (Ref. 53-135, 53-135.01 RS Neb.)
§ 10-109   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
The Governing Body is authorized to regulate by ordinance not inconsistent with
the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail
and bottle club licensees carried on within the corporate limits. The Governing
Body shall further have the power and duties in respect to licensed retailers
of alcoholic beverages to cancel or revoke for cause retail or bottle club
licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquors issued to persons for premises
within its jurisdiction subject to the right of appeal to the Commission; to
enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any time upon any
premise licensed by the State of Nebraska to determine whether any of the
provisions of the Municipal laws, or the laws of the State of Nebraska, are
being violated; to receive signed complaints from any citizens within its
jurisdiction that any of the Municipal laws, or laws of the State of Nebraska,
are being violated, and to act upon such complaints in the manner herein
provided; to cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in Section 10-124, it determines that the
licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act
or any valid and subsisting ordinance or regulation duly enacted relating to
alcoholic liquors; and to collect for the benefit of the State of Nebraska and
the Municipality all license fees and occupation taxes as prescribed by law.
(Ref. 53-134 RS Neb.)
§ 10-110    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; OWNER OF PREMISES.
The owner of any premise used for the sale at retail of alcoholic beverages
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of these laws to the same extent as the
said licensee if the owner shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the said
licensed premise in violation of any Municipal Code Section or Nebraska
Statute. (Ref. 53-1,101 RS Neb.)
§ 10-111    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; EMPLOYER.
The employer of any officer, director, manager, or employees working in a
retail liquor establishment shall be held to be liable and guilty of any act or
omission or violation of any law or ordinance, if such act is committed or
omission made with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the employer or
licensee, and each such act or omission shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer, and will be punishable in the same manner as if the said act
or omission had been committed by him personally.  (Ref. 53-1,102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-112   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell, give away, dispose of,
exchange, permit the sale of or make a gift of, any alcoholic liquors, or to
procure any such alcoholic liquors to or for any minor, or to any person who is
mentally incompetent.  (Ref. 53-180 RS Neb.)
§ 10-113   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CREDIT SALES.
No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person or
persons for credit of any kind, barter, or services rendered; Provided, nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club holding a class C
license from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed
by members, or guests of members, and charged to the accounts of the said
members or guests in accordance with the by-laws of any such club; and Provided
further, nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any hotel or restaurant
holding a retail alcoholic beverage license from permitting checks or
statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing in the said
hotel, and charged to the accounts of such guests.  (Ref. 53-183 RS Neb.)
§ 10-114   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SPIKING BEER.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to serve or offer
for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol, or permit any
person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premise of such
licensee. (Ref. 53-174 RS Neb.)
§ 10-115   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease any
premise in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed, to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquors contained in bottles,
casks, or other containers except in the original package.  (Ref. 53-184 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-116   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; MINOR'S PRESENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage, or lease an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of eighteen (18) years to frequent or otherwise remain in the said
establishment unless the said minor is accompanied by his parent or legal
guardian, and unless said minor remains seated with, and under the immediate
control of, the said parent or legal guardian. (Ref. 53-147 RS Neb.)
§ 10-117   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOURS OF SALE.
It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their agents to sell
any alcoholic beverages within the Municipality except during the hours
provided herein:
   HOURS OF SALE
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
   Secular Days
         Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
         On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
         Bottle Club   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
   Sundays
      Off Sale   12:00 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sales   12:00 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
      Bottle Club   12:00 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
Beer and Wine
   Secular Days
      Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      Bottle Club   6:00 P.M. to 1:00 A.M.
   Sundays
      Off Sale   6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
      On Sale   12:00 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
      Bottle Club   12:00 Noon to 1:00 A.M.
   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than fifteen (15) minutes after the time
fixed herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on the said premises.
For the purposes of this Section, "on sale" shall be defined as alcoholic
beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the premises of the licensed
establishment; "off sale" shall be defined as alcoholic beverages sold at
retail in the original container for consumption off the premises of the
licensed establishment.
   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prohibit licensed premises
from being open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this Section.  (Ref. 53-179
RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 636, 8/8/91; 738, 1/18/00)
§ 10-118   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SANITARY CONDITIONS.
It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons and said licensed premise
shall be subject to any health inspections the Governing Body or the Municipal
Police may make, or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses
shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a
report concerning the said sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings
concerning the application for, or renewal of, a liquor license.  (Ref. 53-118
RS Neb.)
§ 10-119   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of nineteen (19) years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors,
including beer, to said licensee's customers.  (Ref. 53-102 RS Neb.)
§ 10-120   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within
the corporate limits upon the public ways and property, including inside
vehicles while upon the public ways and property. It shall further be unlawful
for any person to consume alcoholic beverages within any other public business
that is not a licensed liquor establishment.  (Ref. 53-186, 53-186.01 RS Neb.)
§ 10-121   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ACQUISITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to have possession of any alcoholic liquors
which shall have been acquired otherwise than from a licensee duly licensed to
sell same to such person under the provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control
Act; Providing, nothing herein shall prevent the possession of alcoholic liquor
for the personal use of the possessor, his family and guests, as long as the
quantity of alcoholic liquor transported, imported, brought, shipped or caused
to be transported, imported, brought, or shipped into the State for personal
use does not exceed one (1) gallon at any one (1) time or in excess of two (2)
gallons in any one (1) calendar month, nor prevent the making of wine, cider or
other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the
product thereof, by simple fermentation and without distillation, if it is made
solely for the use of the maker, his family and his guests; Provided further,
that nothing herein shall prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or
dentist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his
profession, or any hospital or institution caring for the sick and diseased
persons, from possessing any alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide
patients of such hospital or other institution; Provided further, that any drug
store employing a licensed pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquors in
the compounding of prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and Provided
further, that the possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this
Section; Provided further, that persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older
may carry beer from grocery stores when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor, persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older may handle beer
containers and beer in the course of their employment in grocery stores, and
persons who are sixteen (16) years old or older may remove and dispose of
alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of their employer and customers
in the course of their employment as waiters, waitresses, or busboys, by any
restaurant, club, hotel, or similar organization; and Provided further, that
persons who are nineteen (19) years old or older may serve or sell alcoholic
liquor in the course of their employment.  (Ref. 53-102, 53-164.01, 53-175 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-122    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR
QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic violations may
take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the officer dangerous
to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise incapacitated, from any
public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an intoxicated person from
public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable effort to take such
intoxicated person to his or her home or to place such person in any hospital,
clinic, alcoholism center, or with a medical doctor as may be necessary to
preserve life or to prevent injury. Such effort at placement shall be deemed
reasonable if the officer contacts those facilities or doctor which have
previously represented a willingness to accept and treat such individuals and
which regularly do accept such individuals. If such efforts are unsuccessful or
are not feasible, the officer may then place such intoxicated person in civil
protective custody, except that civil protective custody shall be used only as
long as is necessary to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no
circumstances longer than twenty-four (24) hours. The placement of such person
in civil protective custody shall be recorded at the facility or jail at which
he or she is delivered and communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if
they can be located, or to such person designated by the person taken into
civil protective custody.
   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this Section shall
be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and shall not
be criminally or civilly liable for such actions. The taking of an individual
into civil protective custody under this Section shall not be considered an
arrest. No entry or other record shall be made to indicate that the person has
been arrested or charged with a crime.
   For purposes of this Section, public property shall mean any public right-
of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or other state, county, or municipally-
owned property.
   For the purposes of this Section, quasi- public property shall mean and
include private or publicly-owned property utilized for proprietary or business
uses which invites patronage by the public or which invites public ingress and
egress.  (Ref. 53-1,121 RS Neb.)
§ 10-123   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; INSPECTIONS.
It shall be the duty of the Governing Body to cause frequent inspections to be
made on the premises of all retail and bottle club licensees. If it is found
that any such licensee is violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act or regulations of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission, or is
failing to observe in good faith the purposes of said Act, the license may be
suspended, cancelled, or revoked after the licensee has been given an
opportunity to be heard by the Governing Body. (Ref. 53-146 RS Neb.)
§ 10-124   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
Any five (5) residents of the Municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Governing Body stating that any retail or bottle club
licensee, subject to the jurisdiction of the Governing Body, has been or is
violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or the rules or
regulations issued pursuant thereto. Such complaint shall be in writing in the
form prescribed by the Governing Body and shall be signed and sworn by the
parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule,
or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the Governing Body is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the fact alleged there is
reasonable cause for such belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten (10) days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve
notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the
particular charge in the complaint; Provided, that the complaint must in all
cases be disposed of by the Governing Body within thirty (30) days from the
date the complaint was filed by resolution thereof, said resolution shall be
deemed the final order for purposes of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission as provided by law. (Ref. 53-1,114 RS Neb.)
§ 10-125   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LICENSE LIMITATION.
The number of licenses for retail sale of alcoholic liquor, including beer and
wine, within the corporate limits of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska shall be
limited to ten (10) licenses. (Ref. 53-132 RS Neb.)
§ 10-126   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR APPLICATION RETAIL LICENSING STANDARDS.
The standards for the issuing or denying of liquor licenses in the corporate
limits of the City of St. Paul shall be as set forth herein. The applicant
shall show by the preponderance of evidence that the application will further
the public interest; will provide an improvement to the neighborhood, a
betterment to the City, and a true increase in service to the public; and will
not be detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare. The City Council
shall consider the following licensing standards and criteria as established by
the State of Nebraska Liquor Control Commission at the hearing and an
evaluation of any applicant for a retail alcoholic liquor license, for the
upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic liquor, or for the expansion or change
in location of the premises, and for the purpose of formulating a
recommendation from the Governing Body to the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission in accordance with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act:
   1.   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in the
area.
   2.   The recommendation of the St. Paul Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency.
   3.   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity of
the proposed licensed premises.
   4.   Zoning restrictions.
   5.   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises.
   6.   The existence of a citizen's protest and any other evidence in support
of or in opposition to the application.
   7.   The existing population, and projected growth.
   8.   The existing liquor licenses, the class of such licenses.
   9.   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located.
   10.   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated in
conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the public
interest.
   The following additional local standards shall be considered at the hearing
and as evaluation of any applicant for a retail alcoholic liquor license, for
an upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic liquor, or for the expansion or
change in location of the premises, and for the purpose of formulating a
recommendation from the Governing Body to the Nebraska Liquor Control
Commission in accordance with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act:
   1.   The recommendation of the St. Paul Police Department, Howard County
Sheriff's Department and the Nebraska State Patrol.
   2.   The existence of potential traffic and parking problems and the
proximity of available on and off-street parking.
   3.   The number and proximity of existing liquor licenses.
   4.   Compatibility and impact on the nature and needs of the neighborhood in
which the license is to be located as well as its projected growth.
   5.   Whether the applicant can ensure that all alcoholic beverages,
including beer and wine, will be handled by persons in accordance with the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   6.   Whether the applicant has taken every precaution to protect against the
possibility of shoplifting of alcoholic beverages, which must be displayed,
kept, and sold from an area which is secured to the greatest extent possible.
   7.   Whether the applicant is fit, willing, and able to properly provide the
service proposed in conformance with all provisions, requirements, needs and
regulations provided for in the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   8.   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the type of management and
control exercised over the licensed premises will be sufficient to ensure that
the licensee can conform to all the provisions, requirements, rules and
regulations provided for in the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   9.   The background information, including alcohol, drug, morals or other
violations of State Statute, of the applicants established by information
contained in the public records of the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission and
investigations conducted by the Police Department.
   10.   Past instances of discrimination involving the applicant(s) as
evidenced by findings of fact before any administrative board or agency of the
Municipality or any other governmental board or agency of the Municipality or
any other governmental unit or any court of law.
   11.   Past compliance with liquor regulations and Municipal ordinances and
regulations.
   12.   If the application is for an on-sale license, whether it is adjunct to
a legitimate food service operation as evidenced by percent of gross income
allocated to food and liquor, and the type and extent of kitchen facilities.
   13.   Applications for Class "B," "C," and "D" licenses (as defined by
Section 53-124, R.S.S.) must be for premises which are separate and distinct
from any other business activity. Premises shall be deemed separate and
distinct only when located in a building which is not adjacent to any other
building, or when located within the same building, they shall be so separate
by walls (floor to ceiling), that access cannot be had directly from the area
of alcoholic liquor sales to any other business activity by means of doors or
other openings; Provided, nothing   herein shall pre- vent the construction or
maintenance of doors that are used by employees; further, any nonconforming
premises in existence on the effective date of this ordinance may be continued
for the term of the present ownership of the license. For the purpose of this
Section, other business activity shall mean the sale or display of any
groceries, gasoline, produce, mercantile product, item or service other than
keeping or selling of alcoholic liquors at retail for consumption off the
premises and the sale or display of ice, drink mix, tobacco, cups, carbonated
beverages, or food snacks.
   14.   Whether the applicant or its representatives have suppressed any facts
or provided any nonfactual information to the local Governing Body or its
employees in regard to the license application or liquor investigations. The
applicant is required to cooperate in providing a full disclosure to the
investigating agents of the Municipality.
   15.   Proximity of and impact on schools, churches, hospitals, libraries,
homes for the aged, and public institutions.
   16.   The City Council may fix certain requirements and prescribe certain
conditions upon a license when it is granted or permitted to continue in full
force and effect whether such requirements or conditions are imposed at a
formal hearing, by a written notice, or in a written stipulation, and such
requirements or conditions shall be deemed to be a part of the license as
though fully endorsed therein; and any violation or breach of any requirement
or condition is prohibited.
   17.   Whether the application is for a business, the sole purpose for which
is the sale of dispensing of liquor, or when the sale or dispensing of liquor
is a substantial integral part of the business, and not just incidental
thereto.
   18.   Whether the applicant can show that the alcohol (off sale) will be in
the view of employees so as to minimize shoplifting.
   The preceding standards are not necessarily of equal value that can be
computed in a mathematical formula. Rather, they are standards which can be
weighed and cumulated positively and negatively. The burden of proof and
persuasion shall be on the party filing the application. When applicable, the
term "applicants" as used herein is synonymous with "license." (Ref. 53-134 RS
Neb.) (Ord. No. 587, 8/4/86)
§ 10-127   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; LIQUOR APPLICATION; NOTICE; PROCEDURE.
   A.   Notice.
   Notice of a hearing held pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. Section 53-134 shall be
given to the applicant by the Municipal Clerk and shall contain the date, time,
and location of the hearing. Two (2) or more proceedings which are legally or
factually related may be heard and considered together unless any party thereto
makes a showing sufficient to satisfy the Governing Body that prejudice would
result therefrom.
   B.   Procedure.
   Hearings will be informal and conducted by the Mayor or Council-authorized,
appointed agent. The intent is an inquiry into the facts, not an adversarial
action. Each witness may present their testimony in narrative fashion or by
question and answer.
   The Governing Body or the applicant may order a transcript at the expense of
the applicant(s).
   The Governing Body and its representatives shall not be bound by the strict
rules of evidence, and shall have full authority to control the procedures of
the hearing including the admission or exclusion of testimony or other
evidence. The Governing Body may admit and give probative effect to evidence
which possesses probative value commonly accepted by reasonably prudent
individuals. The Hearing Officer may limit testimony where it appears
incompetent, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious. If there is opposition to any
application and such opposition desires the opportunity to present arguments
and to cross-examine the applicant and any witnesses in favor of such
application, they shall choose a spokesperson to perform such function who
shall notify the Hearing Officer of his/her representation prior to the start
of the hearing.
   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
      1.   Exhibits will be marked in advance by the Clerk and presented to the
Hearing Officer during the presentation;
      2.   Presentation of evidence, witnesses, and arguments by applicant;
      3.   Testimony of any other citizens in favor of such proposed license;
      4.   Examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by Municipal
Attorney, City Manager, any member of the Governing Body, or duly appointed
agent;
      5.   Cross-examination of applicant, witnesses or citizens by
spokesperson for opposition, if any;
      6.   Presentation of evidence and witnesses by opposition;
      7.   Testimony of any other citizens in opposition to such proposed
license;
      8.   Presentation of evidence by Municipality and law enforcement
personnel;
      9.   Cross-examination by applicant;
      10.   Rebuttal evidence by both parties, and by Municipality
administration and agent;
      11.   Summation by applicant and opposition spokesperson, if any.
   In all cases, the burden of proof and persuasion shall be on the party
filing the application.
   Any member of the Governing Body and the Municipal Attorney may question any
witness, call witnesses, or request information.
   All witnesses shall be sworn.
   The Governing Body may make further inquiry and investigation following the
hearing.
(Ref. 53-134 RS Neb.)(Ord. No. 589, 8/4/86)
§ 10-128   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; HOURS OF SALE ON JANUARY 1.
It shall be lawful for any licensed person or persons or their agents to sell
alcoholic beverages within the Municipality on January 1 from Midnight to 1:00
A.M. when December 31 is on a Sunday. (Ord. No. 617, 12/4/89)
Article 2. Non-Residence Salespeople
§ 10-201   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
Any non-resident salesperson intending to sell or attempting to sell any
merchandise, magazines, books, services or other items of value or attempting
to take orders or subscriptions for the same within corporate limits of the
City shall prior to making any attempt to sell such items, register with the
Saint Paul Police Department. There shall be a charge of twenty dollars
($20.00) per day for any license, to be paid at the time such license is
issued. A license may be granted after the following is provided:
   (1)   The applicant's and all representatives full name, current address,
telephone number and proof of identity;
   (2)   A brief description of the nature, wares, services or merchandise to
be offered for sale;
   (3)   The area in which the vendor intends to conduct sales; business,
residential or both.
   (4)   If the applicant is employed by another, the name and address of the
person, firm, association, organization, company or corporation;
   (5)   If a motor vehicle (s) is to be used, a description of the vehicle(s)
together with the motor vehicle license number;
   (6)   Sales tax permit as required by Neb. R.S. 77-2705; and
   (7)   Proof of a General Liability insurance policy in an amount not less
than three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) for property damage and
injuries, including death, caused by the operation of the business, plus
statutory work compensation coverage for their employee's. (Ord. No. 902, 7/18/
11)
§ 10-202   ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
The applicant shall be notified in writing by the Police Department of the
city's decision to issue or deny the vending license no later than thirty (30)
days after the applicant has filed a completed application with the Police
Department. Each license shall show the name and address of the licensee, type
of license issued, kind of goods or services to be sold, amount of license fee,
date of issuance, license number, and an identifying description of any vehicle
or conveyance used by the licensee plus, where applicable, the motor vehicle
license number. Each license shall show the expiration date. (Ord. No. 902, 7/
18/11)
§ 10-203   DUTY TO CARRY AND DISPLAY LICENSE.
   (1)   The license herein provided shall at all tunes be carried on the
person of said salesperson and shall be displayed by the salesperson upon the
request of any citizen of the City or any law enforcement officer,
   (2)   All licenses, permits and identification badges issued under this
section are valid for the term of the fees paid by the vendor unless suspended
or revoked and shall be both nonassignable and non-transferable. (Ord. No. 902,
7/18/11)
§ 10-204   HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
It shall be unlawful for any non-resident solicitor or salesperson to solicit
any individual between the hours of 7:00 P.M. and 9:00 A.M., unless they have a
previous appointment with the resident or residents on the premises solicited.
(Ord. No. 902, 7/18/11)
§ 10-205   EXCEPTIONS.
The provision of this Article shall not apply to officers or employees of the
City, County, State or Federal government, or any subdivision thereof, when on
official business, or to any person working for, or in conjunction with a
charitable, church, religious or non-profit organization. (Ord. No. 902, 7/18/
11)
§ 10-206   REVOCATION.
Any license granted hereunder may be revoked by the Mayor or Chief of Police
because of any violation by the registrant of this Article or of any ordinances
of the City, laws of the State or Federal law, or whenever the registrant shall
cease to possess the qualifications and character required in this Article for
the original registration. (Ord. No. 902, 7/18/11)
Article 3. Garbage Collectors
§ 10-301   GARBAGE COLLECTORS; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall collect, remove, haul, or convey for hire any refuse
through or upon any of the streets or alleys of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska,
or dispose of the same in any manner or place without obtaining a license from
the Mayor and Council of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska. (Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
   (B)   Application for garbage hauling permit. Applicant requests a permit to
provide residential garbage service in the City of St. Paul, Nebraska. Only
companies holding valid permits are authorized to provide garbage hauling
permits for residential service within the City limits. This permit does not
include commercial or industrial service. The City currently has an ordinance
for mandatory garbage pickup at all residences. Applicant hereby agrees:
      (1)   The hauler must deposit all garbage at a Subtitle D licensed
landfill, transfer station or recycling center.
      (2)   The hauler shall provide language and assurances of liability
insurance coverage and specific language indemnifying the City from claims
related to the garbage hauling and disposal service.
      (3)   The hauler shall be responsible for litter, spillage or damage to
public facilities or property.
      (4)   The hauler shall provide pickup on a weekly basis.
      (5)   The hauler will comply with all applicable local, state and federal
laws or regulations relating to solid waste disposal, including any applicable
laws newly enacted during the term of the permit.
      (6)   The City may terminate the permit in the event of material or
continued default by the hauler. The City shall give notice and opportunity for
proper remedy of problems. If the listed violation or default is not cured
within thirty (30) days, the City may cancel the permit.
         Applicant Name:
         Address:
         Telephone:
         E-mail:
   (C)   Applications must be submitted to the City Clerk, 704 6th Street, St.
Paul, NE 68873. (Agreement approved 6/3/15)
§ 10-302   GARBAGE COLLECTORS; LICENSE FEE.
The fee for such license shall be one hundred ($100.00) dollars per annum, and
all licenses shall be issued for the calendar year, or such portion thereof as
shall remain after the issuance thereof. There shall be no reduction in the fee
for a license issued after the beginning of any calendar year. (Ref. 19-2106 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-303   GARBAGE COLLECTORS; APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
Every person who shall apply for a license under this section shall state the
type or types of refuse to be collected, the manner and method of collection
and disposal, and the time such collection and disposal will be made. (Ref. 19-
2106 RS Neb.)
§ 10-304   GARBAGE COLLECTORS; MANNER OF DISPOSAL.
   No licensed collector shall make any change in the arrangements for disposal
of refuse collected by him without first receiving the approval of the Mayor
and Council of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska. (Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 10-305   GARBAGE COLLECTORS; LICENSE REVOCA- TION.
The license so issued to each collector may be revoked by the Mayor and Council
of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska for failure to comply with the provisions of
this Article. (Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 10-306   GARBAGE COLLECTORS; COLLECTION VEHICLES.
All vehicles used by licensed collectors shall have enclosed cargo space.
   Each licensed collector shall carry Comprehensive Automobile Liability and
Comprehensive Liability Insurance in the following limits, Bodily Injury, one
hundred thousand ($100,000.00) dollars. Each Person, three hundred thousand
($300,000.00) dollars, each occurrence, and shall furnish to the Mayor and
Council of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska a Certificate of Insurance setting
forth that such insurance coverage has been so issued and provided for him.
(Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 10-307   GARBAGE COLLECTORS; RATES.
The rates to be charged by the Municipality for refuse disposal shall be set by
ordinance and shall be available for public inspection at the office of the
Municipal Clerk.  (Ref. 19-2106 RS Neb.)
§ 10-308   GARBAGE COLLECTORS; LICENSE TAX.
    (A)   Pursuant to the City's authority under section 17-525 RS Neb. to
raise revenue by levying and collecting a license tax on any occupation or
business within the limits of the City and regulate such occupation or business
by ordinance, all garbage collected within the corporate limits of the City
shall be deposited into the Loup Central Landfill.
   (B)   If any holder of garbage hauling permit issued by the City does not
deposit all garbage collected within the corporate limits of the City into the
Loup Central Landfill, then the City shall levy an occupation tax on said
permit holder in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) annually.
   (C)   The application for garbage hauling permit issued by the City shall be
amended to specifically reference the requirement set forth in division (A)
above and the occupation tax referenced in division (B) above. (Ord. No. 993,
8/6/18)
Article 4. Bingo and Lottery
§ 10-401   BINGO; REGULATION.
Games of bingo shall be conducted within the Municipality in accordance with
all laws of the Municipality and the State of Nebraska if the said game of
bingo is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed
by the State of Nebraska to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written
permit from the Governing Body before commencing operation of said game.
Application shall be made to the Municipal Clerk for such permit. Said
application form shall contain such information and documents or copies thereof
as the Governing Body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject
the application. Upon the determination that granting the application would be
proper, the Governing Body shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk to
issue the said license to the applicant upon the payment of an annual permit
fee of ten ($10.00) dollars. Said license shall be subject to revocation at any
time for good cause. Any person or persons, so licensed, shall be subject to
any other fees, rules, and regulations which the Governing Body may designate.
All permits so issued will automatically expire on September thirtieth (30th),
following its issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal unless otherwise
prescribed shall be in the sum of ten ($10.00) dollars. Said fee shall be
credited to the General Fund. The permit shall be on display at any place where
a game of bingo is conducted.  (Ref. 9-166 RS Neb.)
§ 10-402   BINGO; TAX.
A tax of four (4%) per cent of the gross receipts of each licensed association
deriving revenue from the game of bingo is hereby imposed and levied against
each such association and payable on or before the thirtieth (30th) day of the
immediately succeeding calendar quarter to the Municipal Treasurer. Such tax
shall be credited to the Municipal General Fund, and shall be used to pay for
the cost of regulation and enforcement of this Article.  (Ref. 9-165, 9-168 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-403   BINGO; QUARTERLY REPORT.
Each association conducting the game of bingo shall submit a written quarterly
report to the Municipal Clerk covering the preceding calendar quarter on or
before the thirtieth (30th) day of the immediately succeeding calendar quarter.
(Ref. 9-165 RS Neb.)
§ 10-404   BINGO; INCORPORATED REGULATION.
   All applicable State statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be, and will constitute, a part of this Article as if repeated verbatim
herein, and violation of any State statute will be a distinct and separate
offense against the Municipality as well as against the State. Violators
thereof shall be separately prosecuted by the Municipality for each of such
offenses, and if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ref. 9-124 thru 9-176 RS Neb.)
§ 10-405   LOTTERY; SALES OUTLET LOCATIONS; APPROVAL REQUIRED; QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS.
   (1)   The Mayor and City Council of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska may
contract with a lottery operator to conduct a lottery in the City of St. Paul.
The lottery operator, who the Governing Body contracts to conduct its lottery,
shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall approve or disapprove
each sales outlet location and each individual, sole proprietorship,
partnership, limited liability company, or corporation which desires to conduct
the lottery at it sales outlet location shall conduct the lottery solely on the
basis of the qualifications standards prescribed in subsection (2) of this
section.
   (2)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation which seeks to have its location approved as an
authorized sales outlet location shall:
      (a)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Chapter 53, Article 1 RS Neb.;
      (b)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of, or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency at any level, or any similar
offense or offenses or any crime whether felony or misdemeanor, involving
gambling activity or moral turpitude;
      (c)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or canceled under the
Nebraska Bingo Act, the Nebraska Pickle Card Lottery Act, the Nebraska Lottery
and Raffle Act, or the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act; and
      (d)   Be fit, willing, and able to properly provide the service proposed
in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the Nebraska County and
City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant
to the Act.
   (3)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation, the qualification standards shall apply to every partner of such
partnership, every member of such limited liability company, every officer of
such corporation, and stockholder owning more then ten percent (10%) of the
stock of such corporation.
   (4)   The Governing Body shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within thirty (30) days of approval. (Ord. No. 747,
6/5/00)
§ 10-406   LOTTERY; PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (1)   No person under nineteen (19) years of age shall play or participate
in any way in the lottery established and conducted by the City of St. Paul
Nebraska. No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the City
contracts to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the City.
No employee or agent of the City, lottery operator, or authorized sales outlet
location shall play the lottery of the City for which he or she performs work
during such time as he or she is actually working at such lottery or while on
duty. Nothing shall prohibit:
      (a)   Any member of the Governing Body, a municipal official, or the
immediate family of such member or official or
      (b)   An owner or officer of an authorized sales outlet location for the
City from playing a lottery conducted by the City as long as such person is
nineteen (19) years of age or older.
   (2)   No person, or employee or agent of any person or the City, shall
knowingly permit an individual under nineteen (19) years to age to play, or
participate in any way in the lottery conducted by the City.
   (3)   For purposes of this section, immediate family of a member of the
governing body or a municipal official shall mean:
      (a)   A person who is related to the member or official by blood,
marriage, or adoption and resides in the same household or
      (b)   A person who is claimed by the member or official or the spouse of
the member or official as a dependent for federal income tax purposes. (Ord.
No. 748, 6/5/00)
Article 5. Junk Yards
§ 10-501   JUNK YARD; DEFINED.
The term ''junk yard'' as used in this Code is hereby defined as meaning, and
shall include any place in the Municipality where or from which any person
shall conduct, engage in, or carry on the business of junk dealer as herein
defined.
§ 10-502   JUNK YARD; REGULATION.
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate, or hold open for public
use any junk yard as herein defined without first obtaining a license to do so
from the Municipality. Application for a license to own, operate, or hold open
for public use any junk yard shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk
and shall require such information and documents, or copies thereof, that the
Governing Body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject the said
application. Upon approval of the application, the Municipal Clerk shall issue
the license upon the payment of a fee set by resolution of the Governing Body.
The licensee shall then be subject to any occupation taxes, bond requirements,
and other rules and regulations which the Governing Body may determine to be
beneficial to the Municipality. Any such bond shall be set by resolution of the
Governing Body and will be conditioned upon the faithful observance of the
provisions of this Code. The bond shall be held for the benefit of any person
who may suffer damage by the improper management of the said junk yard. (Ref.
69-202 RS Neb.)
§ 10-503   JUNK YARD; OWNER'S RESPONSIBLITY.
The owner of the premise upon which a junk yard is located shall be equally
responsible with the operator, director, or employee thereof to see that the
provisions of this Code will not be violated. In the event the provisions of
this Code are violated, he shall be equally liable with the operator, director,
or employee for the said violation of the provisions herein.
§ 10-504   JUNK YARD; INSPECTIONS.
The Municipal Police, health officials, and the Governing Body shall have the
power and authority to inspect and examine the premise on which a junk yard is
located; Provided, that the said inspection is at a reasonable time. Upon a
finding that the owner, operator, director, or employee has allowed a health or
safety hazard to develop, the Governing Body shall give written notice to the
owner to remove the said health hazard within thirty (30) days. (Ref. 69-204 RS
Neb.)
§ 10-505   JUNK YARD; NUISANCE.
Any junk yard that becomes a danger to the public health, or is not operated in
the manner herein provided, shall be deemed to be a public nuisance after the
said thirty (30) day period of grace. The Governing Body shall then request the
Municipal Attorney to prosecute the owner, operator, director, or employee of
the said nuisance for violation of the provisions of this ordinance. (Ref. 18-
1720 RS Neb.)
§ 10-506 JUNK YARD; RODENTS.
Any person who owns, operates, directs, or is employed by a junk yard shall
make a diligent and continuous effort to exterminate all rats, mice, and other
harmful rodents frequenting the said junk yard. (Ref. 18-1720 RS Neb.)
Article 6. Railroad Companies
§ 10-601   RAILROAD COMPANIES; SAFE CROSSING.
It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or traveling
through, the Municipality to keep in a suitable, and safe condition the
crossings and right-of-way in the Municipality. If any such crossing shall at
any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe, or inconvenient for public
travel, the Governing Body may, by resolution, call upon the said company to
make whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous
condition. Notice of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent
of the said company. In the event that the railroad shall fail, or neglect to
repair, and correct the said condition as aforesaid within forty-eight (48)
hours, neglect for each twenty-four (24) hours thereafter shall be deemed, and
is hereby made a separate, and distinct offense against the provisions herein.
(Ref. 17-143, 17-144, 17-551, 17-552, 75-414 RS Neb.)
§ 10-602   RAILROAD COMPANIES; OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents, or
servants operating a railroad through the Municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than twenty (20) minutes. (Ref. 17-552 RS Neb.)
§ 10-603   RAILROAD COMPANIES; OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT CROSSINGS PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to obstruct or obscure the
traveling public's view by storing or parking any railroad car on a railroad
track within sixty (60') feet of the crossing of any such railroad track and a
public road within the corporate limits of the Municipality; Provided, however,
in no instance shall any person who is authorized to control the movement of
such railroad car or cars within such distance be prevented from reasonably
conducting his or her business. (Ref. 74-1323 RS Neb.)
Article 7. Franchises
§ 10-701   FRANCHISE; NATURAL GAS.
The Governing Body has granted to the KN Energy, Inc. the authority to
construct, maintain, and operate a gas transmission, and distribution system
within the Municipality. Actual details of the agreement, and the present gas
rates, charges, and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk's office. (Ref.
17-528.02 RS Neb.)
§ 10-702   FRANCHISE; TELEPHONE.
The Governing Body has granted to the Northwestern Bell Telephone Company the
authority to maintain, and operate a telephone system within the Municipality
for a term of twenty-five (25) years by Ord. No. 519, 10/4/77. Actual details
of the agreement, and the present telephone rates, charges, and fees are
available at the Municipal Clerk's office. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§ 10-703   FRANCHISE; CATV; AUTHORIZATION.
The Mayor and City Council are hereby authorized to grant an exclusive
franchise for the operation of a Community Antenna Television System pursuant
to Sections 18-2201 through 18-2206 Reissue Revised Statutes of Nebraska 1943,
R.S. Supp. 1983 and as may be hereinafter amended. The Mayor and City Council
may further grant to a Franchisee the right, privilege and franchise to erect,
construct, operate and maintain in, upon, along, across, above, over and under
the streets, alleys, and public ways now laid out or dedicated and all
extensions and additions thereto in the City for the placement of poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes, and other television conductors and
fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation of a Community Antenna
Television System for the interception, sale, transmission and distribution of
television programs and other audio visual electrical signals and the right to
transmit the same to the inhabitants of the City on such terms and conditions
as may be set forth in the Franchise Agreement.
§ 10-704   FRANCHISE; CATV; OCCUPATION TAX.
There is hereby created an Occupation Tax to be paid by the Franchisee of the
Community Antenna Television service which shall be calculated as follows: Two
(2%) per cent times the base rate charged to subscribers times the number of
subscribers for each year of operation. The tax shall be paid annually
commencing on May 1 of the first year of operation by the Franchisee and
continuing on May 1 of each succeeding year. Each payment of the tax shall be
accompanied by a statement of an officer of the Franchisee certifying the
number of subscribers served during the preceding year. (Ref. 18-2204 RS Neb.)
§ 10-705   FRANCHISE; CATV; UNLAWFUL HOOK-UP.
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect
to, tap into any existing service line, or hook up to any Community Antenna
Television service line without having first contracted with the operator of
the Community Antenna Television System for the reception of any television
program or other audio visual electrical signals.
   Every person, firm or corporation failing to comply with the provisions of
10-703 thru 10-705 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall for each offense, be fined in any sum not to exceed one hundred
($100.00) dollars and may be prosecuted for a separate continuing offense for
each day that any television program or other audio visual electrical signal is
received in violation of 10-703 to 10-705.
§ 10-706   NATURAL GAS; RATE FILING FEE.
The Municipality shall charge and collect a filing fee from Natural Gas
Companies for a rate filing. The fee shall be three hundred ($300.00) dollars.
(Ord. No. 598, 9/8/87)
§ 10-707   NATURAL GAS; SCHEDULE OF RATES FOR SALE TO ST. PAUL.
The rates charged by K N Energy, Inc. (K N) for natural gas supplied to
residential, commercial and noncontract users in the City of St. Paul,
Nebraska, hereinafter referred to as "City," unless otherwise approved by the
Mayor and City Council or allowed by operation of another ordinance, shall not
exceed the following effective October 1, 1990:
   First 1,000 cu. ft. per month $6.0043 per 1,000 cu. ft.*
   Next 4,000 cu. ft. per month $4;.0916 per 1,000 cu. ft.
   Next 45,000 cu. ft. per month $3.3643 per 1,000 cu. ft.
   All additional per month $3.1493 per 1,000 cu. ft.
   *Minimum Monthly Charge:   Shall be an amount equal to the charge for the
first 1,000 cu. feet as adjusted as provided for by the City's gas supply cost
adjustment ordinance.
    Delayed Payment Charge:   5% on the first $20.00 of bill, plus 2% on excess
    Bills will be rendered at monthly intervals.
(Ord. No. 626,, 12/26/90)
Article 8. Occupation Taxes
§ 10-801   OCCUPATION TAX; AMOUNTS.
For the purpose of raising revenue an occupation tax is hereby levied on the
following businesses:
Cable Television Companies      Three (3%) percent times the base rate charged
to subscribers times the number of subscribers for each year of operation.
Alcoholic Liquor Licensees as follows:
   1.   Beer Only, within the corporate limits of the City of St. Paul, for
consumption on the premises, regardless of alcoholic content - Class A   $
100.00
   2.   Beer Only, for consumption off the premises, regardless of alcoholic
content, sales in the original package only - Class B      $100.00
   3.   Alcoholic Liquors, within the corporate limits of the City of St. Paul,
Nebraska, for consumption on the premises and off the premises, sales in
original packages only, and for catering and dispensing alcoholic liquor on
premises away from licensed premises - Class C   $300.00
   4.   Alcoholic Liquors, including beer, regardless of alcoholic content,
within the corporate limits of the City of St. Paul, Nebraska, for consumption
off the premises, sales in the original packages only, for catering and
dispensing alcoholic liquor on premises away from the licensed premises - Class
D   $200.00
   5. Alcoholic Liquors, including beer, issued to a non-profit corporation for
consumption on the premises, which license has not been issued to any
corporation authorized by the statute of the State of Nebraska to receive a
license under the provisions of subdivision (5)(C) of section 53-124 RS Neb. -
Class I   $250.00
   6.   Catering License, the holder of a catering license may deliver, sell or
dispense alcoholic liquor, including beer, for consumption at premises
designated in a special designated license issued - Class K   $100.00
(Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.) (Amended by Ord. Nos. 591, 9/2/86; 929, 5/20/13; 989, 3/
19/18)
§ 10-802   OCCUPATION TAX; FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.   
(Repealed by Ord. 989, 3/19/18)
§ 10-803   OCCUPATION TAX; COLLECTION DATE.
All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on the first (1st) day of May of
each year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the
payment thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said Clerk
shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying the said
tax, and the amount paid. The revenue collected shall then be immediately
deposited into the General Fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal
Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him. All
forms, and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One (1) copy
shall then be kept by each party in the transaction. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§ 10-804   OCCUPATION TAX; CERTIFICATES.
The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
Occupation Tax Certificate. The said certificate shall specify the amount of
the tax and the name of the person, and business that paid the said tax. The
Occupation Tax Certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place, or
carried in such a way as to be easily accessible, while business is being
conducted. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
§ 10-805   OCCUPATION TAX; FAILURE TO PAY.
If any person, company, or corporation fails, or neglects to pay the occupation
taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due, and payable, the
Municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of one (1%) per cent per month
until paid. (Ref. 17-525 RS Neb.)
Article 9. Penal Provision
§ 10-901   VIOLATION; PENALTY.
Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or incorporated
by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not more than one hundred ($100.00) dollars for each
offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every twenty-
four (24) hours of such failure to comply.
