SUTHERLAND, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 672, passed 11-8-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the Sutherland Code
of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body
of the village.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Lincoln County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of
Sutherland, Nebraska.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Board or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedications of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified in the particular section for which the
person stands convicted of violating, the penalty for violating any provision
of this code declaring such act to be a misdemeanor, infraction, nuisance or
otherwise unlawful shall be fined in an amount not more than $100 plus cost of
the acts.
(Prior Code, § 6-327)
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this code, the municipality
may proceed by lawsuit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the manner
provided by law. Whenever in any action it is established that a nuisance
exists, the court may together with the fine or penalty impose or enter an
order of abatement as a part of judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-324)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer and shall bear the following inscription:
“Village Seal, Village of Sutherland, Lincoln County, Nebraska.”
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall affix an impression of the said official
seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances and all other official
papers issued by order of the governing body and countersigned by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Seal; other powers, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   FORMS OF LEGISLATION
      
36.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
37.   VILLAGE RATES AND FEES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Election; terms; qualifications
   
30.02   General powers
   
30.03   Oath; organization; Chairperson
   
30.04   Standing committees
   
30.05   Vacancy
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in a
Board of Trustees which shall consist of five members. At the first statewide
general election held after the incorporation of the village, two Trustees
shall be elected to serve two years and three Trustees shall be elected to
serve four years. Thereafter the Board members shall be elected as provided in
the Election Act. The terms shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Board in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) above and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in that division, the term of each Board member
shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a nonpartisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. RS 32-602)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 30.02 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The village Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce;
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its zoning jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 30.03 OATH; ORGANIZATION; CHAIRPERSON.
   Every village Trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the state and faithfully and impartially to discharge the
duties of his or her office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and
meet on the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December
thereafter, organize, elect a Chairperson of the Board of Trustees and appoint
the officers required by law.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
Statutory reference:
   Oath, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 30.04 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.05 VACANCY.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C) or (D) below,
vacancies in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees
for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy
resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to
the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the
vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village or by posting in three public places in the village the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination, and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a
special election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Bonds; requirements
   
31.02   Oath of office; village officials
   
31.03   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
31.04   Conflicts of interest involving contracts
   
31.05   Salaries of officials
Appointed Officials
   
31.20   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.21   Merger of offices
   
31.22   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.23   Village Clerk
   
31.24   Village Treasurer
   
31.25   Clerk-Treasurer’s monthly income
   
31.26   Clerk-Treasurer’s annual report
   
31.27   Village Attorney
   
31.28   Village Engineer; special engineer
   
31.29   Village Utilities Superintendent
   
31.30   Municipal Street Commissioner
   
31.31   Deputy Clerk
Meetings
   
31.45   Definitions
   
31.46   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
31.47   Notice to news media
   
31.48   Village Board meetings; when; where
   
31.49   Quorum
   
31.50   Emergency meetings
   
31.51   Closed sessions
   
31.52   Public participation
   
31.53   Votes
   
31.54   Minutes
   
31.55   Change in office
   
31.56   Reorganizational meeting
   
31.57   Special meetings of commissions and boards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5, of the Constitution of the
state.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall carefully record and preserve the
bonds in his or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when
required, under the seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive
for the same the usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in
other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom, by law, bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk-Treasurer
shall immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials, or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials, or
before the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is
not shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant, and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may by resolution fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give
a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect,
become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the Board to appoint a competent and
qualified person to fill the office.
§ 31.02 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering
upon their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath, which
shall be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and, upon Village Board of Trustees approval,
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to §
31.04.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.21, except that when there are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or
any other board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one
or more members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all
members of such board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the salary was
increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 31.04 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract
is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any
person for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or
services furnished under the contract to the extent that the governing body has
benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   (1)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing
body with a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a
contract subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by
division (G) above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened.
      (2)   Thereafter, the person charged with keeping records for the
governing body shall maintain a running account of amounts purchased on the
open account. Purchases made from petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be
subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 31.05 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   The salaries of the elected and appointed officials of the village shall be
established by resolution or ordinance, as amended from time to time, by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-903) (Ord. 580, passed 8-28-2013; Ord. 594, passed 9-10-2014;
Ord. 597, passed 12-10-2014; Ord. 606, passed 9-23-2015; Ord. 612, passed 9-28-
2016; Ord. 618, passed 5-9-2018; Ord. 625, passed 9-26-2018; Ord. 642, passed
9-25-2019; Ord. 650, passed 7-8-2020; Ord. 656, passed 10-13-2021; Ord. 663,
passed 10-26-2022; Ord. 672, passed 11-8-2023)
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, Engineer, Street Commissioner and Chief of Police and other such
officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Pursuant to division (A)(2) below, the Village Chief of Police or any other
police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her removal, demotion or
suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the Village Board of Trustees
may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, in accordance with the
requirements of Neb. RS 17-208. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the peremptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a police officer during his
or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Street Commissioner, members
of the Board of Health and other appointed officers, except regular police
officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed by the Chairperson of
the Village Board with the advice and consent of the Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 31.21 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
§ 31.22 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The appointive offices of Municipal Clerk and Municipal Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the governing
body by §
31.21.
§ 31.23 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Description of work. Under the appointment, supervision and direction
of the Chairperson of the Board, this position performs technical, supervisory
and administrative work in accomplishing the functions of Municipal Clerk and
of the Municipal Clerk duties and related work as required.
   (B)   Examples of responsibilities and duties. The Municipal Clerk shall:
      (1)   Assist with preparing Board agenda, ordinances and resolutions for
Board consideration;
      (2)   Have the custody of all laws and ordinances and keep a correct
journal of the proceedings of the Board;
      (3)   Keep a register of all licenses and permits issued and the payments
thereon;
      (4)   Keep record of all officers and regular employees of the
municipality and such other records as required by the Board;
      (5)   Keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and records kept
by the Clerk;
      (6)   Seal and attest to all contracts of the municipality and all
licenses, permits and such other documents that require this formality;
      (7)   Receive claims of any person against the municipality and process
the same in all proper cases;
      (8)   Issue and sign all licensing permits and occupation tax receipts;
      (9)   Collect funds for licensing and the like, promptly turn over all
funds collected to the Treasurer with a statement as to the source thereof and
keep accounts showing all money received and the source and disposition
thereof;
      (10)   Record Board proceedings (and votes taken);
      (11)   Transcribe and report official minutes of Board meetings to
appropriate officials;
      (12)   Within ten days of any meeting of the governing body, prepare and
publish the official proceedings of the Village Board in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, being Neb. RS
84-1407 et seq.;
      (13)   Publish, between July 15 and August 15 of each year, the village
employee job titles and the corresponding compensation to such job titles;
      (14)   At the end of the fiscal year, compile and report business of the
municipality transacted through the Clerk’s office;
      (15)   Verify that the Chairperson signs on warrants, ordinances,
resolution and papers;
      (16)   Attest to Chairperson’s signature or countersign, when required;
      (17)   Prepare an annual report in which is described the bonds issued
and sold during the year and the terms of sale, with every item of expense
thereof; and keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the village,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom said bonds were issued
and when any bonds are purchased or paid or cancelled;
      (18)   Be in charge of all village elections, including preparation and
notice as required by law;
      (19)   Be the custodian of the Village Seal;
      (20)   Assist with the preparation and administration of the annual
budget;
      (21)   Supervise the Deputy Clerk and delegate duties and
responsibilities of the Municipal Clerk as necessary to him or her;
      (22)   Recommend hiring, firing, wages and evaluations of the Deputy
Clerk to the Village Board;
      (23)   Supervise the office assistant, delegate general duties and
responsibilities as necessary to the assistant and recommend hiring, firing,
wages and evaluations of said position;
      (24)   Establish positive public relations with citizens of and visitors
to the community; and
      (25)   Perform other duties as required by law, ordinance or direction of
the Chairperson and Board.
   (C)   Qualifications. The person occupying this position should have, as a
minimum, the ability to maintain effective working relations with employees and
officials; the ability to organize and present effective oral and written
reports; thorough knowledge of modern office practices and procedures;
knowledge of bookkeeping and accounting methods; knowledge of computer usage;
knowledge of automated accounting and office systems; and the ability to
project positive public relations with the citizenry. Must be able to be
bonded.
   (D)   Training and experience. Any combination of training and experience to
graduation from high school, supplemented by course work in municipal
administration, bookkeeping or accounting or business administration and office
experience.
(Prior Code, § 1-203) (Ord. 539, passed 12-8-2010)
§ 31.24 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Description of work. Under the appointment, supervision and direction
of the Chairperson and Board, this position performs technical, supervisory and
administrative work in accomplishing the functions of Municipal Treasurer and
does related work as required.
   (B)   Examples of duties. The Municipal Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Be the custodian of all money belonging to the village;
      (2)   Invest and collect all monies owed by or owed to the village;
      (3)   Protect the funds of the village;
      (4)   Pay out on vouchers or orders properly signed by the Municipal
Clerk and Chairperson;
      (5)   Keep a separate accounting of each fund or appropriation and the
debts and credits of each fund or appropriation;
      (6)   Issue receipts for monies paid in, specifying dates and upon which
account payment was made;
      (7)   Keep a register of all warrants, bonds or orders filed with the
Treasurer and all vouchers, as required by law;
      (8)   Keep records showing all money received by the Treasurer, the
source from which it was received and the purpose for which it was paid out;
      (9)   Prepare for the Board an accounting of each account and the
activities thereof;
      (10)   Make monthly reports to the Board as required by law and
ordinance, including accounting of all financial activities made within the
Treasurer’s office, and accompanying said report, a statement of all receipts
and disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by the
Treasurer, which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by the Treasurer,
shall be filed in the Municipal Clerk’s office;
      (11)   Ensure that the cash book is footed and balanced monthly (includes
bookkeeping of utility accounts);
      (12)   Keep a current fiscal status record of the village;
      (13)   Keep such books and accounts as may be required by the Village
Board, in a manner required by law;
      (14)   Prepare and administer the annual budget, audit and Treasury
activities;
      (15)   Make an annual report on or before the last day of September of
each year and cause the same to be published, all as required by statute and/or
ordinance;
      (16)   Annually prepare and publish a statement of receipts and
expenditures, by fund, for the municipality for the preceding fiscal year and
render an accounting to the Board of the financial state of the municipality;
      (17)   Prepare and submit such reports as are required by state offices;
      (18)   Establish positive public relations with citizens of and visitors
to the community; and
      (19)   Perform other duties as required by law, ordinance or by
directions of the Chairperson and Board.
   (C)   Qualifications. The person occupying this position should have, as a
minimum, the ability to maintain effective working relations with employees and
officials; knowledge of bookkeeping and accounting methods; the ability to
organize and present effective oral and written reports; thorough knowledge of
modern office practices and procedures; knowledge of computer usage; knowledge
of automated accounting and office systems; and the ability to project positive
public relations with the citizenry. Must be able to be bonded.
   (D)   Training and experience. Any combination of training and experience to
graduation from high school, supplemented by coursework in municipal
administration, bookkeeping or accounting, or business administration and
office experience.
(Prior Code, § 1-204) (Ord. 540, passed 12-8-2010)
§ 31.25 CLERK-TREASURER’S MONTHLY INCOME.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall at the end of each and every month, and at
such other times as the governing body may deem necessary, render an account to
the governing body under oath showing the financial state of the municipality
at that date, the amount of money remaining in each fund, the amount paid
therefrom and the balance of money remaining in the Treasury. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall accompany said account with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also produce depository evidence that all
municipal money is in a solvent and going bank in the name of the municipality.
If the Clerk-Treasurer shall neglect or fail for the space of ten days from the
end of each and every month to render the Clerk-Treasurer ’s accounts as
aforesaid, the governing body shall by resolution declare the office vacant and
appoint some person to fill the vacancy. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be present
at each regular meeting of the governing body at which times the Clerk-
Treasurer shall read and file the Clerk-Treasurer’s monthly report.
(Neb. RS 17-606) (Prior Code, § 1-205)
§ 31.26 CLERK-TREASURER’S ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall publish in a legal newspaper having general
circulation within the municipality within 60 days following August 1 of each
year a report of the activities of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office which said
report shall show in detail. Said report shall include all receipts,
disbursements, warrants outstanding and the debit or credit balance of the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 19-1101) (Prior Code, § 1-206)
§ 31.27 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk-Treasurer as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural
step will be taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a
valid and subsisting local law insofar as its passage and approval are
concerned.
§ 31.28 VILLAGE ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Village Engineer shall, when requested by the Board of Trustees,
make estimates of the cost of labor and materials which may be done or
furnished by contract with the village and make all surveys, estimates and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, the building
of culverts, sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public
heating systems, bridges, curbing and gutters, the improvement of streets and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
Board may require.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Village Engineer, when ordered to do so by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall make surveys, estimates and calculations necessary to be made
for the establishment and maintenance of public works by the village.
(Neb. RS 17-213.01)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may employ a special engineer to make, or assist
in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided for in
Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have the
same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the Village
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)
   (D)   The Village Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the village and, when directed by the Board of
Trustees, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles and maps as may
be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the village and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-919
§ 31.29 VILLAGE UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   A Utilities Superintendent shall be appointed in the event that there
is more than one municipal utility and the governing body determines that it is
in the best interest of the municipality to appoint one official to have the
immediate control over all said municipal utilities and municipal streets. The
Utilities Superintendent may be removed at any time by a majority vote of the
governing body. Any vacancy occurring in said office by death, resignation or
removal may be filled in the manner herein provided for the appointment of all
municipal officials.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent’s duties over the following departments
shall be as stated herein:
      (1)   Water Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have general
supervision and control over the municipal water system and shall be primarily
responsible for its economic operation and prudent management. Included in said
water system shall be the water plant, the pump house and all machinery and
appliances used in connection with producing and distributing water to
inhabitants of the municipality. All actions, decisions and procedures of the
Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to the general directives and control
of the governing body. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the general
control and supervisory authority over all employees of the water system which
the governing body may from time to time hire to operate and maintain said
system. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs or extensions of
said waterworks system except upon the recommendation of the Superintendent.
The Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned upon the faithful
discharge of the Utilities Superintendent’s duties which shall amount to not
less than the amount set by resolution of the governing body and on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The Superintendent shall perform such additional
duties as may be prescribed by the governing body.
      (2)   Sewer Department. The Utilities Superintendent shall have general
supervision and control over the municipal sewer system and shall be primarily
responsible for its economic operation and prudent management. All action,
decisions and procedures of the Utilities Superintendent shall be subject to
the general directives and control of the governing body. The Utilities
Superintendent shall have the general control and supervisory authority over
all employees of the sewer system which the governing body may from time to
time hire to operate and maintain said system. The Utilities Superintendent
shall make a detailed report to the governing body at least once every six
months of the condition of said sewer system of all mains, pipes, treatment
facilities and machinery and such improvement, repairs and extensions thereof
as the Utilities Superintendent may think proper. This report shall show the
amount of the receipts and expenditures for improvements, repairs or extensions
of said sewer works system except upon the recommendation of the
Superintendent. The Utilities Superintendent shall provide a bond conditioned
upon the faithful discharge of the Utilities Superintendent’s duties which
shall amount to not less than the amount set by resolution of the governing
body and on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The Utilities
Superintendent shall perform such additional duties as may be prescribed by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-541
§ 31.30 MUNICIPAL STREET COMMISSIONER.
   The Street Commissioner shall, subject to the order of the Board of
Trustees, have general charge, direction and control of all works on streets,
sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the village and shall perform such other
duties as the Board may direct.
(Neb. RS 17-214)
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.31 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   Description of work. This position assists the Clerk-Treasurer in the
performance and accomplishment of the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer as directed
by the Clerk-Treasurer or Board.
   (B)   Examples of duties. Assists the Clerk-Treasurer with any of the Clerk-
Treasurer’s duties or responsibilities as delegated by the Clerk-Treasurer or
directed by the Board and acts as the Clerk-Treasurer in the absence of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Qualifications. The person occupying this position should have, as a
minimum, the ability to maintain effective working relations with employees and
officials; the ability to organize and present effective oral and written
reports; thorough knowledge of modern office practices and procedures,
knowledge of bookkeeping and accounting methods; knowledge of computer usage,
knowledge of automated accounting and office systems; and the ability to
project positive public relations with citizenry. Must be able to be bonded.
   (D)   Training and experience. Any combination of training and experience to
graduation from high school, supplemented by course work in municipal
administration, or business administration and office experience.
(Prior Code, § 1-211) (Ord. 539, passed 12-8-2010)
MEETINGS
§ 31.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action of the public body.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the Constitution of the
state, statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 31.46 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of the state, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act, being
Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
village. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Village Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits
of the village. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to
include items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 31.47 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the
Secretary or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of
the news media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable
efforts to provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each
meeting and the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.48 VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS; WHEN; WHERE.
   The meetings of the governing body shall be held in the meeting place of the
municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second and fourth Wednesday
of each month at the hour of 6:00 p.m., except there shall be no meetings on
the fourth Wednesday in November and December. Special meetings may be called
by the Board Chairperson or by a majority of the governing body, the object of
which shall be submitted to the governing body members in writing. The call and
object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal
by the Clerk-Treasurer. No other business shall be transacted at such meetings
unless all members of the governing body are present and consent thereto. On
filing the call for a special meeting, the Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
governing body of the special meeting, stating the time and its purpose. Notice
of a special meeting need not be given to a member of the governing body who is
known to be out of state or physically unable to be present.
(Prior Code, § 1-510) (Ord. 623, passed 9-26-2018)
§ 31.49 QUORUM.
   (A)   At all meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, a majority of the
Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may adjourn
from day-to-day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such manner
and under such penalties as prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-205)
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
§ 31.50 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunication equipment. The provisions of §
31.47 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (B)   Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made
available to the public by not later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 31.51 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For the purpose of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 31.52 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
31.51, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast or recorded by any
person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video equipment or
any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, being Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., hold a meeting in a
place known by the body to be too small to accommodate the anticipated
audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 31.53 VOTES.
   (A)   (1)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and
seconded shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the
record shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not
voting.
      (2)   The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be
satisfied by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows
the yeas and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by
the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.54 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 31.55 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   The Chairperson and governing body shall meet on the second Wednesday in
December for the purpose of swearing in any new members of the Board. Any
outgoing Trustees shall each surrender to the village all property, records,
and papers belonging to the village.
(Neb. RS 17-203.01) (Prior Code, § 1-513)
§ 31.56 REORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The newly elected Board shall convene at the regular place of meeting
on the second Wednesday of December in each election year immediately after the
prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize themselves for the ensuing year.
The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the meeting to order. The Board shall
then proceed to examine the credentials of its members and other elective
officers of the municipality to see that each has been duly and properly
elected and to see that such oaths and bonds have been given as are required.
After ascertaining that all members and officers are fully qualified, the Board
shall then elect one of its own body who shall be styled as Chairperson of the
governing body.
   (B)   The Chairperson pro tempore shall follow the following method for
conducting the election of the Chairperson:
      (1)   (a)   Chairperson pro tempore will ask for a motion as to the
procedure to conduct the election (voice/secret ballot). If the body by a
majority vote selects a voice vote, the Chairperson pro tempore shall open the
floor for nominations.
         (b)   The Chairperson pro tempore recognizes the member making the
nomination: Trustee: “I would like to nominate (name) for Chairperson.”
         (c)   Chairperson pro tempore asks the nominee if he or she consents
to the nomination. If the nominee gives his or her consent the Chairperson pro
tempore announces: “(name) has been nominated for the position of Chairperson.
Are there any further nominations?”
         (d)   Continue until there are no other nominations.
      (2)   If there is only one nomination, the Chairperson pro tempore
declares the nominations closed:
         (a)   “May I have a second motion to nominate (name) as the new
Chairperson?”
         (b)   “Any discussion?”
         (c)   “All those in favor/opposed?”
         (d)   Motion carried. Passes or fails.
      (3)   If there are multiple nominations, the Chairperson pro tempore will
take a vote on each nomination in the order they were made. After tallying the
ayes and nays the Chairperson pro tempore will announce the nominee that
received the majority of the votes.
         (a)   “(Name) has received the majority of the votes. May I have a
motion and a second to accept the results of the vote?”
         (b)   “Any discussion?”
         (c)   “All those in favor/opposed?”
         (d)   Motion carried. Passes or fails.
      (4)   New Chairperson takes over the meeting at this point.
   (C)   The Chairperson shall then nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices, and said officers shall hold office until their successors
are duly appointed and qualified. He or she shall then proceed with the regular
order of business. It is hereby made the duty of each and every member of the
Board or of its successors in office and of each officer hereafter elected to
any office to qualify prior to the first Tuesday in December following the
election, each officer elected at the regular municipal election shall take
possession of his or her office. Each appointive officer who is required to
give bond shall qualify by filing the required bond, approved by the governing
body, in the office of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer within two weeks from the
date of his or her said appointment; provided, that on said bond shall be
endorsed the same oath as required of a member of the governing body. Failure
to qualify by elective or appointive officers within the time and manner
provided in this section shall and does in itself create a vacancy in the
office to which said person failing to qualify shall have been elected or
appointed.
(Prior Code, § 1-514) (Ord. 653, passed 2-24-2021)
§ 31.57 SPECIAL MEETINGS OF COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS.
   All public meetings, as defined in §
31.52, of any board or commission established by §
32.01 shall be scheduled by the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 1-515) (Ord. 599, passed 3-11-2015)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Appointments, generally
   
32.02   Bylaws
Boards and Commissions
   
32.15   Board of Health
   
32.16   Library Board
   
32.17   Housing Authority
   
32.18   Planning Commission
   
32.19   Park Advisory Board
   
32.20   Tree Board
   
32.21   Growth Board
   
32.22   Board of Adjustment
   
32.23   Community Development Agency
Fire Department
   
32.35   Operation and funding
   
32.36   Fire Chief
   
32.37   Membership
   
32.38   Records
   
32.39   Distant fires
   
32.40   Impersonating firefighters
   
32.41   Power of arrest
   
32.42   Fire investigation
   
32.43   Duties
   
32.44   Preservation of property
   
32.45   Mandatory assistance
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 APPOINTMENTS, GENERALLY.
   (A)   The governing body shall appoint members of such commissions and
boards as the governing body may by ordinance or resolution create. It shall
appoint a Board of Health.
   (B)   Members of the following Boards and Commissions shall be appointed or
reappointed as terms of office expire or resignations are accepted:
      (1)   Board of Health;
      (2)   Library Board;
      (3)   Park Board;
      (4)   Tree Board;
      (5)   Planning Commission;
      (6)   Board of Adjustment;
      (7)   Housing Authority; and
      (8)   Growth Committee.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 32.02 BYLAWS.
   The governing body shall establish bylaws to govern the village’s
commissions and boards by resolution as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-114)
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.15 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Board of Health consisting
of three members: The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, who shall be
Chairperson, and two other members. One member shall be a physician or
healthcare provider, if one can be found who is willing to serve. Such
physician or healthcare provider, if appointed, shall be the Board of Health’s
medical advisor. If the Board of Trustees has appointed a Chief of Police, the
Chief of Police may be appointed to the Board of Health and serve as Secretary
and quarantine officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the force and effect of
law, to safeguard the health of the people of such village and prevent
nuisances and unsanitary conditions. The Board of Health shall enforce such
rules and regulations and provide fines and punishments for violations.
      (3)   The appointees shall hold office for one year unless removed by the
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (B)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting each year after
the Board of Trustees’ meeting when appointments are regularly made and, if
necessary, select a member to serve as Secretary. No member of the Board of
Health shall hold more than one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall
keep full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file the same
with the Village Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection during office hours.
   (C)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board of Trustees may
designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two members of the Board of Health.
   (D)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time
out of the General Fund.
   (E)   The Board of Health may regulate, suppress and prevent the occurrence
of nuisances and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the village
relating to nuisances and to matters of sanitation which affect the health and
safety of the people. The Board shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the Board of Trustees may direct.
   (F)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the Board of Trustees may,
from time to time, designate.
§ 32.16 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   The Library Board shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the Board
of Trustees with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The nominated
members must receive a majority vote of the governing body. The Board shall
consist of five members. The members of the Library Board shall serve without
compensation and may be required, at the discretion of the governing body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the governing body and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties.
   (B)   At the time of the Board’s first meeting in July of each year, the
Board shall organize by selecting from their number a Chairperson and
Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the Clerk-
Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Library Board shall meet at such times as the
Board may designate. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the
Chairperson or any three members of the Board.
   (C)   The Library Board shall have the authority to appoint a Librarian and
all other employees. It shall be the duty of the Board to have general charge
of the library including the Librarian. All actions of the Board shall be
subject to the review and supervision of the governing body. The Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the governing body may designate from time to time. No member of the body shall
serve as a member of the Library Board while serving a term of office as a
member of the governing body. No member of the Library Board shall serve in the
capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-220
§ 32.17 HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Appointment, officers.
      (1)   The governing body shall appoint five persons who shall constitute
the Housing Authority, and such persons shall be called the Board of
Commissioners. One Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner
shall serve a five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly
appointed; provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
terms. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner
shall be filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer, and such certificate shall be
conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of such Commissioner.
Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their services, but they shall
be entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in
the discharge of their duties.
      (2)   Three Commissioners shall constitute a quorum of the Authority for
the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its powers and for all other
purposes. Action may be taken by the Authority upon the vote of the majority of
the Commissioners present unless in any case the bylaws of the Authority shall
require a larger number. The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson from among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an
executive director who shall serve as an ex officio Secretary of the Authority.
The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the Chief Law
Officer of the village, for such services as it may require and shall determine
the qualifications, duties, compensations and terms of office. The Authority
may delegate such other powers and duties to its agents or employees as it may
deem proper. During his or her tenure, and for one year thereafter, no
Commissioner, officer or employee of the Village Housing Authority shall
voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any
property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract
or proposed contract relating to any housing project, if any such Commissioner,
officer or employee involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or
involuntarily acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment as
Commissioner, officer or employee, he or she shall immediately disclose his or
her interest in writing to the Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered
upon the minutes of the Authority, and he or she shall not participate in any
action by the Authority relating to the property or contract in which he or she
has any such interest; provided, that nothing herein shall apply to the
acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the Authority issued in
connection with any housing project, or the execution of agreements by banking
institutions for deposit or handling of funds in connection with a project or
to act as Trustee under any trust indenture, or to utility services, the rates
for which are fixed or controlled by a governmental agency.
      (3)   The Chairperson may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or
misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Chairperson
shall send notice of removal to such Commissioner which shall contain a
statement containing the charges against him or her. Unless, within ten days
from receipt of such notice, such Commissioner files with the Clerk-Treasurer a
request for a hearing before the governing body, the Commissioner shall be
deemed as removed from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer, the governing body of the village shall hold a hearing at
which the Commissioner shall have the right to appear in person or by counsel,
and the governing body shall determine whether the removal shall be disapproved
or upheld. If the removal is disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to
hold his or her position. The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account
of all activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a
report to the governing body on all such information.
(Prior Code, § 2-105)
   (B)   Ownership. The Village Housing Authority is owned by the village and
operated through the Housing Authority Commission. The Housing Authority shall
constitute a body corporate and politic and shall have all the powers necessary
or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of the
Housing Agency Act, being Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 2-106)
   (C)   Rules and regulations. The Housing Authority may establish from time
to time rules and regulations consistent with the purposes of this chapter
concerning the priority of eligible applicants for occupancy. The Authority may
give preferential treatment to applicants who are servicemembers or veterans,
relatives of servicemembers or veterans, to disabled servicemembers or
veterans, the elderly or disabled, those in urgent need of adequate housing or
those who have no adequate source of income; provided, that in such system of
priority, displaced persons in need shall have a priority ahead of all other
persons; and provided further, that no tenant in good standing then in
occupancy and qualified for continued occupancy shall have his or her tenancy
terminated in order to provide dwelling units for classes or categories of
applicants as the Authority may establish.
(Prior Code, § 2-107)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1572 et seq.
§ 32.18 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Appointment and terms.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members and
one alternate who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different
professions or occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the
Chairperson, by and with the approval of a majority vote of the members elected
to the Board of Trustees. Two of the regular members may be residents of the
area over which the municipality is authorized to exercise extraterritorial
zoning and subdivision regulation. When there is a significant number of
residents in the area over which the municipality exercises extraterritorial
zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the Commission shall
be a resident from such area. If it is determined by the Board of Trustees that
a sufficient number of residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial
zoning and subdivision regulation, and no such resident is a regular member of
the Commission, the first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled
by appointment of such individual. For the purpose of this section, A
SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF RESIDENTS shall mean 200 residents. The term of each
regular member shall be three years, except that approximately one-third of the
regular members of the Commission shall serve for terms of one year, one-third
for terms of two years and one-third for terms of three years. All regular
members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Any member may,
after a public hearing before the Board of Trustees, be removed by the
Chairperson, with the consent of a majority vote of the members elected to the
Board of Trustees, for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office
or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through
the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term by the
Chairperson. The governing body, upon majority vote may appoint one alternate
member to the Planning Commission. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other municipal office. The term of the
alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until
his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be
removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through expiration of term, the
vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the
Chairperson and by majority vote of the governing body. The alternate member
may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and participating member of
the Commission at any time when less than a full number of regular Commission
members is present and capable of voting.
      (2)   All regular members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other municipal office except when appointed to
serve on the Board of Adjustment as provided in Neb. RS 19-908. All members of
the Commission may be required, at the discretion of the Board of Trustees, to
give bond in a sum set by resolution of the Board of Trustees and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. The Commission shall elect its
Chairperson and a Secretary from its members and create and fill such other
offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and Secretary shall be
one year, and they shall be eligible for re-election. No member of the
Commission shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the
Commission. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file them with the Clerk-Treasurer
where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours. The
Commission shall be funded by the Board of Trustees from time to time out of
the General Fund. The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall
be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the Board of Trustees;
and no expenditures nor agreements for expenditures shall be valid in excess of
such amounts. A number of Commissioners equal to the majority of the number of
regular members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. The Commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting in each calendar quarter, except the Board of Trustees may require the
Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. Special meetings may also be held upon the call of any three
members of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for
the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be public record. The
Commission shall make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
municipality, including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the
Commission’s judgment, bear relation to the planning of the municipality, and
shall carry out the other duties and exercise the powers specified in Neb. RS
19-929. All actions by the Commission shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the Board of Trustees. The Commissions shall make its
recommendations to the Board of Trustees so that they are received by the Board
of Trustees within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements,
building codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning.
The Commission shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such
other duties as the Board of Trustees may from time to time designate.
      (3)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, with the approval of a
majority vote of the elected members of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint
one alternate member to the Commission. The alternate member shall serve
without compensation and shall hold no other municipal office. The term of the
alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until
his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be
removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Chairperson with the
approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Board of Trustees.
The alternate member may attend any meetings and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time, when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
(Prior Code, § 2-108)
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   A Planning Commission consisting of five members and one alternate
shall be appointed from the citizens at large, who shall represent different
professions, interests or occupations in the municipality, of which Commission
no member of the Village Board shall be a member. The term of the members of
the Planning Commission shall be for a period of two years unless reappointed.
Three members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed in odd-numbered
years, and two members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed in even-
numbered years. Three members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. The members of the Planning Commission
shall be appointed in January of each year, and at the time of the Commission’s
first meeting in February of each year, the Commission shall organize by
selecting from its number a Chairperson and a Secretary. The term of the
Chairperson shall be for one year and he or she shall be eligible for re-
election.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the Clerk-
Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. The Commission shall meet at regular times as established by the
Commission, and special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson
or any three members of the Commission. The Commission shall adopt rules for
the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its own authority; make
arrangements consistent with its program; conduct or sponsor special studies or
planning work for any public body or appropriate agency; receive grants,
remuneration or reimbursement for such studies or work; and at its public
hearing summons witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony.
(Prior Code, § 2-109)
   (C)   Funding and expenditures. The Village Board of Trustees may provide
the funds, equipment and accommodations necessary for the work of the
Commission, but the expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall
be within the amounts appropriated for that purpose by the Village Board of
Trustees, and no expenditures, nor agreements for expenditures shall be valid
or legal in excess of such amounts. The Commission may, with the consent of the
governing body, in its own name, make and enter into contracts with public or
private bodies; receive contributions, bequest gifts or grant funds from public
or private sources; expend the funds appropriated to it by the municipality;
employ agents and employees; and acquire, hold and dispose of property.
(Prior Code, § 2-110)
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   It shall be the function and duty of the Commission to make and
adopt plans for the physical development of the municipality, including any
areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment, bear relation
to the planning of the municipality, including a comprehensive development plan
as defined by Neb. RS 19-903; to prepare and adopt such implemental means as a
capital improvement program, subdivision regulations, consult and advise with
public officials and agencies, public utilities, civic organizations,
educational institutions and citizens with relation to the promulgation and
implementation of the comprehensive development plan and its implemental
programs; have the power to delegate authority to any such group to conduct
studies and make surveys for the Commission; make preliminary reports on its
findings and hold public hearings before submitting its final reports.
      (2)   The municipal governing body shall not hold its public meetings or
take action on matters relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital
improvements, building codes, subdivision development or zoning until it has
received a recommendation of the Planning Commission if such Commission in fact
has been created and is existent; provided, that the governing body may set a
reasonable time within which the recommendation is to be received.
      (3)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program; conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency; receive grants, remuneration or
reimbursement for such studies or work; and, at its public hearing, summon
witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony.
(Prior Code, § 2-111)
(Ord. 183, passed 8-30-1972; Ord. 223, passed 5-14-1979; Ord. 263, passed 12-
10-1986; Ord. 352, passed 3-9-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-929
§ 32.19 PARK ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall consist of five members and two alternates
who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the municipality and shall be appointed by the Chairperson, by
and with approval of a majority vote of the regular Advisory Board members.
Five regular Advisory Board members shall be appointed from the citizens at
large, who shall be resident freeholders of the village. The term of the voting
members of the Advisory Board shall be for a period of two years unless
reappointed. Three members of the Advisory Board shall be appointed in odd-
numbered years, two members of the Advisory Board shall be appointed in even-
numbered years. Three voting members of the Advisory Board shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. The members of the Advisory Board shall
be appointed in October of each year, and at the time of the Board’s first
meeting in November of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from
its number a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary
to keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file
the same with the Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time.
   (B)   The Board shall meet at regular times as established by the Board, and
special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any three
members of the Board. The Advisory Board shall make recommendations to the
Board of Trustees for the appointment of a Swimming Pool Manager, all other
swimming pool employees, general operations of the parks and recreational
facilities and equipment and appropriate rules and regulations for the
management, operation and use of the same. All actions of the Advisory Board
shall be subject to the review and supervision of the governing body. The
Advisory Board shall be responsible for making such reports and performing such
additional duties as the governing body may designate from time to time. No
member of the Advisory Board shall serve in the capacity of both Chairperson
and the Secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-112) (Ord. 302, passed 1-9-1991; Ord. 351, passed 3-9-1994;
Ord. 354, passed 4-13-1994; Ord. 497, passed 2-27-2008; Ord. 552, passed 6- -
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-952
§ 32.20 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Village Tree Board for the
village, which shall consist of five citizens at large, residing within the
zoning jurisdiction of the village, who shall be appointed by the governing
body. The members of the Board shall serve a one-year term of office unless
reappointed. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of
the term. The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson of the
Board of Park Commissioners and the Village Utilities Superintendent shall be
unofficial members of the Tree Board. At the time of the Board’s first meeting
in March of each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from their members
a Chairperson and Secretary. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep full
and correct minutes and records of all public meetings, and to file the same
with the Village Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at
such times as the governing body may designate.
   (B)   Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any
two of the Board members. Members of the Tree Board shall serve without
compensation. It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop a written plan for the care, preservation,
trimming, planting replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in
public parks, public rights-of-way, streets and alleys. Further, said plan
shall set forth, with specificity, street tree species recommended by the Board
to be planted, along with recommendations for spacing, the distance trees may
be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks, the distance trees may be
planted from street corners and fire plugs and restrictions concerning planting
around utilities. Such plan shall be presented to the governing body annually
and upon its acceptance and approval by the governing body shall constitute the
official comprehensive village tree plan for the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-113) (Ord. 664, passed 12-14-2022)
§ 32.21 GROWTH BOARD.
   (A)   It shall be the purpose and duty of the Growth Board to make
recommendations to the Board of Trustees of programs, ideas and suggestions
which will enhance development and growth within the village and to promote
support for local businesses, education, community development, community
history and tourism. The Growth Board shall work in conjunction with the local
Chamber of Commerce and the Citizen Advisory Review Committee.
   (B)   The Growth Board shall make recommendations to the Board of Trustees
for a Program Administrator (if same is requested by the Board of Trustees),
economic suggestions and promotion of the village. The Growth Board shall be
responsible for making such reports and performing such additional duties as
the Board of Trustees may designate from time to time. The Growth Board shall
provide a quarterly report to the Board of Trustees at a minimum of twice a
year (at the first meeting in November and the first meeting in June). All
actions of the Growth Board shall be subject to the review and supervision of
the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   (1)   The Growth board shall consist of five members and one member of
the Board of Trustees. All of these members shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustee Chairperson, by and with the approval of a majority vote of the regular
Board of Trustee members. The five non-Trustee members shall be residents of
the village or reside outside the village limits and must have interests in the
development and future of the village. The Board of Trustee member shall be an
ex officio member who shall not have voting rights. Members of the Growth Board
may also be members of the Chamber of Commerce or other organizations,
committees or unorganized groups which have similar community enhancement
goals. The term of the voting members of the Growth Board shall be for a period
of two years unless reappointed. Three members of the Growth Board shall be
appointed in odd-numbered years and two members of the Growth Board shall be
appointed in even-numbered years. Three voting members of the Growth Board
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The members of the
Growth Board shall be appointed in December of each year. The Board shall
organize after the annual appointments by selecting from its number a
Chairperson and Secretary. No member of the Growth Board shall serve in the
capacity of both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep the full and correct
minutes and records of all meetings and to file the same with the Village
Clerk-Treasurer where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. This Board shall meet at regular times as established by
either it or the Trustees, but no less than quarterly. Special meetings may be
held upon the call of the Chairperson or any three members of the Growth Board.
   (D)   The Growth Board shall make a request for budget funding at the first
meeting in June of each year, and the Growth Board’s budget shall only be
approved by the Board of Trustees pursuant to the authority of Neb. RS 13-315.
The Growth Board will have all spending requests approved by the Board of
Trustees prior to spending any funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-115) (Ord. 662, passed 10-12-2022)
§ 32.22 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Trustees may, pursuant to Neb. RS 19-912.01, request the Zoning
Board of Adjustment for Lincoln County, Nebraska to serve as Zoning Board of
Adjustment for the village. Such request shall be by a majority vote of the
Trustees of the village by resolution and shall remain in effect until such
time that the governing body revokes said request by resolution.
(Ord. 670, passed 8-9-2023)
§ 32.23 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees hereby finds and determines that it is necessary
and desirable for purposes of providing for the redevelopment and general
welfare of the village that a community development agency be created pursuant
to Neb. RS 18-2101.01.
   (B)   There shall be and there is hereby created in and for the village an
agency to be known as the Community Redevelopment Authority of the village
which shall consist of the members of the Board of Trustees, which Agency shall
exercise all of the power and authority granted to a community redevelopment
authority in Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq., as amended, and as hereafter amended.
   (C)   The Agency hereby created shall function in the same manner as the
Board of Trustees, under the direction of the Chairperson of the Board of
Trustees or such other trustee as voted on by the majority of the members of
the Board of Trustees to direct the Agency, and shall exercise such powers as
are set forth in the above-described statutes and in the manner as shall be
deemed from time to time by the Board of Trustees as the governing body of the
village, and as determined by resolution or ordinance duly adopted by said
governing body from time to time.
(Ord. 669, passed 7-12-2023)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   If the village has only a Voluntary Fire Department or companies, the
Board of Trustees may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within the village for the
maintenance and benefit of the Fire Department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the Village Clerk-
Treasurer shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.36 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the Board of Trustees when any of the fire engines, hose,
ladders or other apparatus needs repair. Upon the written consent and directive
of the Board of Trustees, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the Board of
Trustees at the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual
report to the Board of Trustees of the general condition and the proposed
additions or improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.37 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the Board of Trustees. They may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the Board of Trustees. The Fire Chief shall
appoint not more than 35 members for subject to the review and approval of the
Board of Trustees. All vacancies shall be filled in this manner.
   (B)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or Board of Trustees. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the municipal code or laws of the
state.
   (C)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the Board of Trustees. The Secretary shall,
upon request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report of all
meetings and shall make a report to the Board of Trustees of all meetings and
activities of the Fire Department.
   (D)   Members of the Fire Department shall be considered employees of the
village only for the purpose of providing them with workers’ compensation and
other benefits as determined by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees
may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire Department for expenses
incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount set by resolution.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all the village’s
active volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person
serves more than one municipality or rural or suburban fire protection
district, the policy shall be purchased only by the first municipality or
district which he or she serves. The policy shall provide a minimum death
benefit of $10,000 for death from any cause and shall, at the option of the
insured, be convertible to a permanent form of life insurance at age 65. The
coverage of such policy shall terminate as to any individual who ceases to be
an active volunteer member of the Village Fire Department.
   (F)   For purposes of Neb. RS 33-139.01, volunteer firefighters and rescue
squad members testifying as witnesses in that capacity alone shall not be
deemed employees of the village.
(Ord. 449, passed 6-23-2004; Ord. 600, passed 3-25-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 33-139.01 and 35-108
§ 32.38 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the Village Clerk-
Treasurer during the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall
include the cause, origin, circumstances, property involved and whether
criminal conduct may have been involved. In the event of sizable property
damage, the Fire Chief shall include the information of whether the losses were
covered by insurance and, if so, in what amount. All records shall be available
to the public at any reasonable time.
§ 32.39 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees or the
Fire Chief, or pursuant to any agreement with a rural fire district for mutual
aid protection, such fire equipment of the village as may be designated by the
Board of Trustees as rural equipment may be used beyond the corporate limits to
extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the village shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the village when directed to
do so by the Board of Trustees or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to
act for the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the village
as may be designated by the Board of Trustees.
§ 32.40 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely impersonate a firefighter by
wearing a badge or other apparel usually worn by a firefighter for the purpose
of obtaining any benefit whatsoever. Nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit the theatrical representation of a firefighter for bona fide
entertainment purposes when there is no intent to defraud.
(Prior Code, § 3-306) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.41 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of village police officers to command all persons to assist them in
the performance of their duties. Failure to obey a lawful order of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief shall be an offense.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.42 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the village by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the village shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of
the fire furnish him or her a written statement of all the facts relating to
the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may
call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
§ 32.43 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires; to protect property within the village; and to secure
the observance, laws and other rules and regulations with respect to fires and
fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 3-308)
§ 32.44 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any official of the Village Fire Department shall have the power during the
time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public property whenever
it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of such property from
fire, to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect adjoining property. The
officials may direct the hook and ladder firefighters to remove any building,
erection or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire. The
official in charge of the firefighting effort shall have the power to blow up,
or cause to be blown up, with powder or otherwise, any building or erection
during the progress of a fire for the purpose of extinguishing or checking the
same.
(Prior Code, § 3-309)
§ 32.45 MANDATORY ASSISTANCE.
   Any official of the Village Fire Department may command the assistance and
services of any person present at a fire to help in extinguishing the fire, or
in its removal and protection of property. In the event that a spectator
refuses, neglects or fails to assist the Fire Department after a lawful order
to do so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-311) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of §§
32.35 through
32.45, set forth at full length herein or incorporated by referral, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-312)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   General provisions
   
33.02   Notice
   
33.03   Special elections
   
33.04   Registered voters; qualifications
   
33.05   Caucus candidates
   
33.06   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
33.07   Ballots
   
33.08   Certificate of election
   
33.09   Inability to assume office
§ 33.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Any other election held by the
village shall be held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided
by the charter, code or bylaws of the village.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 33.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 33.03 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters for a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election. A special election may be held by
mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election
shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by
September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for the
publication or posting of any required special notice of the submission of such
issue other than the notice required to be given of the statewide election
issues. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and
issue absentee ballots and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commission or County Clerk. The ballots,
including absentee ballots, shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and
in the same manner as other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote
by the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
certify the election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the
County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any special election under the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq. shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the
selected month unless otherwise specifically provided. No special election
shall be held under the Election Act in April, May, June, October, November or
December of an even-numbered year unless it is held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Prior Code, § 1-702) (Ord. 451, passed 6-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-405 and 32-559
§ 33.04 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 33.05 CAUCUS CANDIDATES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, call a caucus for the purpose
of nomination of candidates for offices to be filled in the village election.
This caucus shall be held at least ten days before the filing deadline for that
election, and the Board of Trustees shall publish notice of the caucus in at
least one legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the county at least
once each week for two consecutive weeks before the caucus.
(Neb. RS 17-601.01)
   (B)   The Chairperson of the caucus at which candidates are nominated shall
notify the Village Clerk-Treasurer in writing of the candidates so nominated
not later than two days following the caucus. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall
then notify the persons so nominated of their nomination, this notification to
take place not later than five days after the caucus. No candidate so nominated
shall have his or her name placed upon the ballot unless, not more than ten
days after the holding of the caucus, he or she files with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer a written statement accepting the nomination of the caucus and pays
the filing fee, if any, for the office for which he or she was nominated.
(Neb. RS 17-601.02)
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not preclude in any manner any
person from filing for the offices to which this section is applicable, either
by direct filing or by petition.
(Neb. RS 17-601.03)
§ 33.06 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms. Petition signers and petition circulators
shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for
nomination shall be filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing
the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The
petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 33.07 BALLOTS.
   It shall be the duty of the County Clerk to provide printed ballots for
every general municipal election, and the expense of printing and delivering
the ballots and cards of instruction shall be a charge upon the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-707)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-517 and 32-518
§ 33.08 CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION.
   After the canvass of the vote at the municipal election, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall prepare a certificate of election for each person whom the Canvassing
Board has declared to have received the highest vote and in the form as nearly
as possible prescribed by state law which shall be signed by the Chairperson of
the governing body under the seal of the municipality and countersigned by the
Clerk-Treasurer. The certificate shall then be delivered to the persons so
elected.
(Prior Code, § 1-708)
§ 33.09 INABILITY TO ASSUME OFFICE.
   In a general election where the person who received the highest number of
votes is ineligible, disqualified, deceased or for any other reason is unable
to assume the office for which he or she was a candidate and the electorate had
reasonable notice of such disability at the time of the election, the candidate
in such election who received the next highest number of votes shall be
declared elected and shall be entitled to the certificate of election;
provided, that any candidate so declared elected received not less than 35% of
the total number of votes cast for such office in the election. If any of the
qualifications of this section are not met by the candidate to be declared
elected or reasonable notice of the winner’s ineligibility is not available to
the voters, a vacancy in such office shall be declared to exist at the time of
commencement of the term and shall be filled as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-709)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-568
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Unaudited statement of cash receipts and disbursements
   
34.02   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
34.03   Expenditures
   
34.04   Warrants
   
34.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.06   Special assessment fund
   
34.07   Sinking funds
   
34.08   Deposit of funds
   
34.09   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
34.10   Investment of funds
   
34.11   Bond issues
Annual Budget
   
34.25   Fiscal year
   
34.26   Budget procedures
   
34.27   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
34.28   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
34.29   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of amount of tax
   
34.30   Appropriation bill
   
34.31   Transfer of funds
Tax Levies
   
34.45   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
34.46   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
34.47   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
34.48   Property tax levy and request; authority to set
   
34.49   Sales and use tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 UNAUDITED STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.
   The governing body shall cause an unaudited statement of cash receipts and
disbursements to be filed annually in lieu of an annual audit. Such unaudited
statement shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts in a form
prescribed by him or her. The person preparing the unaudited statement of cash
receipts and disbursements shall submit not less than three copies of the
unaudited statement to the municipal authorities of the municipality. The
Auditor of Public Accounts may require an audit of any municipality’s account
based upon information contained in its unaudited statement and may specify the
period within which such audit must be performed. The unaudited statement of
cash receipts and disbursements shall become a part of the public records of
the Clerk-Treasurer involved and shall at all times thereafter be open and
subject to public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 1-813)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2903 and 19-2905
§ 34.02 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies, materials
and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office, department,
institution, board or other agency.
      PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale, lease
or other contractual means.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the municipality, no contract for
enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public
heating system, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when
the cost of such enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property,
costing over $30,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the governing
body.
   (C)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the governing body
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement of general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges,
work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of such
enlargement of improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Municipal Engineer and submitted to the governing body. In
advertising for bids as provided in divisions (D) and (F) below, the governing
body may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (D)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into for enlargement or general improvements, such as
water extensions, sewers, public heating system, bridges, work on streets or
any other work or improvement when the cost of such enlargement of improvement
is assessed to the property or for the purchase of equipment used in the
construction of such enlargement or general improvements.
   (E)   A municipal electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for such enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is: $30,000 or less; $40,000 or less and the municipal electric
utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
$60,000 or less and the municipal electric utility has gross annual revenue
from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or $80,000 or less and the municipal
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (F)   The advertisement provided for in division (D) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the municipality and, if there is no
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the municipality,
then in some newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which
the municipality is located, and if there is no legal newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the municipality is located, then
in a newspaper designated by the County Board, having a general circulation
within the county where bids are required, and if no newspaper is published in
the municipality or county, or if no newspaper has general circulation in the
county, then by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of three
public places in the municipality at least seven days prior to the bid closing.
In case of a public emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases,
destructive windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity
or unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of, or serious injury or damage to life, health or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths’ vote of the
governing body and entered of record.
   (G)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the
governing body receives fewer than two bids on a contract of if the bids
received by the governing body contain a price which exceeds the estimated
cost, the governing body may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (H)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the governing body, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the purchasing municipality, the governing body may
authorize the manufacture and assemblage of such materials and may thereafter
approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is proved by the manufacturer.
   (I)   Any municipality bidding procedure may be waived by the governing body
when materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and from the same
seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been obtained pursuant to
the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162 or when the
contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop pursuant to Neb. RS
48-1501.
   (J)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule charter, a
municipality which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any county,
a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property without
competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established by the
Federal General Services Administration or the material division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
(Prior Code, § 1-812) (Ord. 514, passed 11-12-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-568.01, 17-568.02 and 18-1756
§ 34.03 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   No person, entity or village official shall have the power to
appropriate, issue or draw any order or warrant on the Village Treasury for
money or otherwise obligate the village financially, unless the same has been
appropriated, authorized by state statute or ordered by ordinance and approved
by the governing body.
   (B)   No expenditure for any improvement or obligation to be paid from the
General Fund of the village shall exceed in any one year the amount provided
for in the adopted budget statement without prior approval of the governing
body according to law.
   (C)   Notwithstanding these restrictions of expenditures, the governing body
may by resolution, authorize department heads or village officials the
authority to use purchase orders up to a stated amount for items authorized in
the current budget, as long as the purchase order complies with all parts of
this chapter and does not cause the budget to be exceeded. Said purchase orders
shall be provided to the Village Treasury as soon as possible for the Clerk-
Treasurer’s review and action as necessary.
   (D)   All expenditures shall comply with state law and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 578, passed 9-11-2013)
§ 34.04 WARRANTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Village Clerk-Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk-Treasurer, stating the
particular fund to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and
for what particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such
warrants so drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the
adopted budget statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount
already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 34.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the claimant or his or her
agent or attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days
if the claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the Treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided, that if there exists at
the time such warrant is drawn obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 34.06 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Clerk-Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the
improvement for which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for
no other purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended
for any such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 34.07 SINKING FUNDS.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds. In the event of a donation of real estate, the Board of
Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate donated to
the village for village library purposes under the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215
and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default
in the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten
years prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the
submission of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required
in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division (C), the Board of Trustees and its successors in
office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for
under this section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, being
Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Clerk-Treasurer, by donation or by
tax levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Clerk-Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of
Trustees, in the manner provided in §
34.10. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk-Treasurer in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking
fund, or sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided, that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 34.08 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit and at all times keep on
deposit for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Clerk-Treasurer.
Such deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by
the Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other office of such bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify such bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution form acting as a depository for such municipal
funds.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or, in lieu
thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit Security Act,
being Neb. RS 77-2386 et seq. to secure the payment of all such deposits and
accretions. The Board of Trustees shall approve such bond or giving of
security. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any
money sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated
and approved.
   (C)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
to the extent that the deposits are insured by such corporation and for
deposits so insured, no other surety bond or other security shall be required.
   (D)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Prior Code, § 1-818) (Ord. 453, passed 6-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362
§ 34.09 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Clerk-Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 34.10 INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Clerk-Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess
of the amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and
improvements, the Board of Trustees may by resolution direct and authorize the
Clerk-Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or
registered warrants of the village, bonds and debentures issued either singly
or collectively by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit
banks or the 13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the General
Fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board
so directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may by resolution direct and authorize the
Clerk-Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds,
or the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water or
gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, being Neb. RS
72-1261 et seq. and the State Funds Investment Act, being Neb. RS 72-1201 et
seq. and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the State
Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State
Investment Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current authorized
investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 34.11 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as
provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-2801 et
seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 34.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.27 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
34.28. A proposed budget statement shall contain the following information,
except as provided by state law:
      (1)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period, the
revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: The unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
      (2)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: The actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (3)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: The actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
      (4)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be raised
from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
         (a)   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   For all other purposes.
      (5)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including each
proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget statement
prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, being Neb. RS 18-
2801 et seq., and a grand total of all funds maintained by the Board of
Trustees; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property, shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 34.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct
a public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time.
      (2)   Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least four
calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For the purpose of such notice,
the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters.
      (3)   At such hearing, the governing body shall make at least three
copies of the proposed budget statement available to the public and shall make
a presentation outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement,
including, but not limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any
member of the public desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall
be allowed to address the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a
reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting and noncompliance with the State Budget Act,
being Neb. RS 13-501 et seq. or Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor
detects such errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Board of such
errors, and the Board shall correct any such error. Warrants for the payment of
expenditures provided in the budget adopted under this section shall be valid
notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance for which the Auditor has notified
the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 34.29 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year, or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, together with the amount of the
tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance
for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purpose of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under §
34.27.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 34.30 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., to be termed “The Annual
Appropriation Bill,” in which the Board may appropriate those sums of money as
may be deemed necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the
village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 34.31 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
Board of Trustees that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Board may by a majority vote, unless
otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in this
subchapter or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the Board who obligate funds contrary to
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.45 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be
raised by taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in § 35.46,
the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each $100 upon
the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the village. Otherwise
authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded indebtedness of the
village may be made by the village in addition to such all-purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in village
financing, the village shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the village in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or
in other legal manners, as the Board of Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the village elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for general fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 34.46 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The village may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, being Neb. RS
13-801 et seq. or the Joint Public Agency Act, being Neb. RS 13-2501 et seq.
The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a
library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting
community nurse, home health nurse or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS
71-1637, or statue, memorial or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property
tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from the Commission of
Industrial Relations, obtained against the village which require or obligate
the village to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by
liability insurance coverage of the village, for preexisting lease-purchase
contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved
according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a
public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics
in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not
included in the levy limits established by this division (A). The limitations
on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all other general or
special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the
only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or
authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this
section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless
approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All village airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, being Neb. RS 3-501 et seq., and community
redevelopment authorities established under the Community Development Law,
being Neb. RS 18-2101 et seq. may be allocated property taxes as authorized by
law which are authorized by the village and are counted in the village levy
limit provided by division (A) above, except that such limitation shall not
apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved
prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and
secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire
interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a
portion of the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a
levy greater than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the village may
be exceeded as provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
village levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude that political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the Chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, being Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. For
petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May
1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628
through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(9) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass no more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A), but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in the
ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a
period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the village shall constitute a quorum for purposes of taking action
to exceed the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of the
registered voters residing in the political subdivision or village who are
present at the meeting. The method of voting at the meeting shall protect the
secrecy of the ballot. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10, and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote against
exceeding the limits, the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall
have no power to call for an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the
resolution or petition which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be not later than 20 days
prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 34.47 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by
law, cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied
upon the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the
village requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the
ensuing year, including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise
provided. The County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be
collected in the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in
the county where the village is situated.
   (B)   In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal purposes, if there
are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a lien on the same
property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such sales and all
sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of law herein
referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be deemed and
treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county taxes
exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 34.48 PROPERTY TAX LEVY AND REQUEST; AUTHORITY TO SET.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the village’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or ordinance
to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) of this section. If the Board of Trustees seeks to set
its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in
the prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by law after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) of this section and by passing a
resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) of this section. If any
county, city, school district, or community college seeks to increase its
property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such
political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in
lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the village's property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the Board of Trustee’s rate of levy for the current year
shall be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) of this section. If the
Board of Trustees seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that
exceeds its property tax request in the prior year, it may do so to the extent
allowed by law after holding the public hearing required in division (C) of
this section and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with
division (D) of this section. If any county, city, school district, or
community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the
requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and
(D) of this section.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For the purpose of
such notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but
not the day of hearing. If the village’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the village’s property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by:              percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $        per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The Village of Sutherland proposes to adopt a property tax
request that will cause its tax rate to be $        per $100 of assessed value;
and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of Village of Sutherland will exceed last
year’s by:        percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 34.49 SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the approval of three propositions by the electors of the
village, at the regularly scheduled primary election that was held on Tuesday,
May 10, 2022, there is hereby adopted a sales and use tax which tax shall be
1.5% upon the same transactions within the corporate limits of the village, on
which the state is authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the provisions of
state law. Said sales and use tax of 1.5% shall commence on January 1, 2023.
   (B)   As identified in division (A) above, 1% shall be used for public
infrastructure purposes which may include, but not be limited to, public
highways and bridges; municipal roads, streets, bridges and sidewalks; solid
waste management facilities; wastewater, stormwater and water treatment works
and systems; water distribution facilities and water resources projects,
including, but not limited to, pumping stations, transmission lines and mains
and their appurtenances; hazardous waste disposal systems; resource recovery
systems; airports; port facilities; buildings and capital equipment used in the
operation of municipal government; convention and tourism facilities;
redevelopment projects as defined in Neb. RS 18-2103 et seq.; mass transit and
other transportation systems, including parking facilities; and equipment
necessary for the provision of municipal services. This shall continue in
perpetuity unless repealed.
   (C)   As identified in division (A) above, 0.5% shall be used to fund the
village’s Economic Development Program, as adopted by the by the Trustees in
Res. 2022-02-01, pursuant to the Local Option Municipal Economic Development
Act, Neb. RS 18-2701 et seq., and shall continue from January 1, 2023 and end
on September 30, 2041.
(Ord. 658, passed 5-25-2022; Ord. 660, passed 7-13-2022; Ord. 665, passed 2-8-
2023)
CHAPTER 35: FORMS OF LEGISLATION
Section
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
35.01   Grant of power
   
35.02   Resolutions and motions
   
35.03   Introduction of ordinances
   
35.04   Ordinances; style, title
   
35.05   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
35.06   Publication or posting
   
35.07   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
35.08   Amendments and revisions
Initiative and Referendum
   
35.20   Purpose
   
35.21   Definitions
   
35.22   Petitions, ballots
   
35.23   Petitions; form; declaratory judgments
   
35.24   Signature sheets
   
35.25   Petitions, affidavit
   
35.26   Petitions, notification
   
35.27   Frequency of occurrence
   
35.28   Direct vote
   
35.29   Elections
   
35.30   Ballots
   
35.31   Initiative
   
35.32   Referendum limitations
   
35.33   Referendum, passage
 
   
35.99   Penalty
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 35.01 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade, commerce and
manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties
for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable
with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 35.02 RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
35.03 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
§ 35.03 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk-Treasurer for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk-Treasurer who, in the presence and hearing of a
majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the
substance of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 35.04 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Sutherland, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 35.05 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on 3 different days unless
3/4 of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement. Such requirement
shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of territory, or
the redrawing of boundaries for village board of trustees election districts or
wards or as otherwise provided by law. In case this requirement is suspended,
the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved for final passage. Three-
fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading of any such ordinance in
full before enactment under either procedure set out in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 35.06 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if
no paper is published in the village, then by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 35.07 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
35.06 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the village
which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission to the
voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage
of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 35.08 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 35.20 PURPOSE.
   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the municipality by state law. This subchapter shall govern the use
of initiative to enact and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 35.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer or the municipal official in charge of
elections.
   GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within the
legislative authority of the governing body to pass and which is not excluded
from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
35.31.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Sutherland, Nebraska.
   PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
35.22 or any copy of such document.
   PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence. If there is no
street and number for the residence, PLACE OF RESIDENCE shall mean the mailing
address.
   PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information necessary
for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which has not yet
been authorized for circulation.
   QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote at the time the
prospective petition is filed in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed by
any measure sought to be enacted by initiative or altered or repealed by
referendum.
   RESIDENCE. The place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
   SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which is
signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 35.22 PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a prospective petition. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall date the prospective petition immediately upon its
receipt. The Clerk-Treasurer shall verify that the prospective petition is in
proper form and shall provide a ballot title for the initiative or referendum
proposal as described below. If the prospective petition is in proper form, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall authorize the circulation of the petition, and such
authorization shall be given within three working days from the date the
prospective petition was filed. If the form of the prospective petition is
incorrect, the Clerk-Treasurer shall, within three working days from the date
the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of necessary changes
and request that those changes be made. When the requested changes have been
made and the revised prospective has been submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer in
proper form, the Clerk-Treasurer shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days from the
receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk-Treasurer
that the prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an
admission by the Clerk-Treasurer, governing body or municipality that the
measure is subject to referendum or limited referendum or that the measure may
be enacted by initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement of not more than 75 words of the
chief purpose of the measure. The ballots used when voting on an initiative or
referendum proposal shall contain the entire ballot title.
   (C)   Proposals for initiative and referendum shall be submitted on separate
ballots, and the ballots shall be printed in lower case ten-point type, except
that the caption shall be in bold face type. All initiative and referendum
measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan manner without indicating or
suggesting on the ballot that they have or have not been approved or endorsed
by any political party or organization.
(Prior Code, § 1-1102)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512 and 18-2513
§ 35.23 PETITIONS; FORM; DECLARATORY JUDGMENTS.
   (A)   The forms designed by the Secretary of State to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions shall be made available to the public by the Village
Clerk-Treasurer, and they shall serve as a guide for individuals preparing
prospective petitions. Substantial compliance with initiative and referendum
forms is required before authorization to circulate such petition shall be
granted by the Village Clerk-Treasurer. Chief petitioners or circulators
preparing prospective petitions shall be responsible for making copies of the
petition for circulation after the authorization for circulation has been
granted.
   (B)   Each petition presented for signature must be identical to the
petition authorized for circulation by the Village Clerk-Treasurer. Every
petition shall contain the name and place of residence of not more than three
persons as chief petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The chief petitioners
or sponsors shall be qualified electors of the municipality potentially
affected by the initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition shall contain
the caption and the statement specified to be part of the ballot title. When a
special election is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every
petition.
   (C)   The village or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory judgment
regarding any questions arising under this subchapter, as it may be from time
to time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a measure
is subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may be
enacted by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment, the
village shall be served by personal, residence or certified mail service upon
the Chief Executive Officer or Village Clerk-Treasurer. If the village seeks a
declaratory judgment, only the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be
required to be served.
   (D)   Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes of
determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in the District
Court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative petition with
the Village Clerk-Treasurer for signature verification until 40 days from the
date the Board of Trustees received notification from the verifying official
that the necessary signatures have been obtained. If the village does not bring
an action for declaratory judgment to determine whether the measure is subject
to limited referendum, or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative,
until after it has received such notification, it shall be required to proceed
with the initiative or referendum election in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter. If the village does file such an action prior to receiving
such notification, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such election
until a final decision has been rendered in the action.
   (E)   Any action for a declaratory judgment shall be governed generally by
Neb. RS 25-21,149 through 25-21,164, except that only the village and each
chief petitioner shall be required to be made parties. The village, Village
Clerk-Treasurer, Board of Trustees or any of the village’s officers shall be
entitled to rely on any order rendered by the court in any such proceeding. Any
action brought for declaratory judgment pursuant to this section shall be given
priority in scheduling hearings and in disposition as determined by the court.
When an action is brought to determine whether the measure is subject to
limited referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, a
decision shall be rendered by the court not later than five days prior to the
election.
   (F)   The provisions of this section relating to declaratory judgments shall
not be construed as limiting but construed as supplemental and additional to
other rights and remedies conferred by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-1103) (Ord. 450, passed 6-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2514, 18-2515 and 18-2538
§ 35.24 SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   Every signature sheet shall:
   (A)   Contain the caption required in §
35.22;
   (B)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories;
   (C)   Provide space for signatories to write their names, places of
residence and the date of signing; and contain a statement that anyone
falsifying information on a signature sheet shall be subject to penalties
provided by law. Petitions shall provide for no more than 20 signatures per
page. In order to be valid, a signature shall be that of an individual
registered to vote at the time of signing in the jurisdiction governed or to be
governed by the measure addressed in the petition. A signature shall include
the signatory’s full name, his or her place of residence and the date of
signing. No signatory shall use ditto marks as a means of affixing his or her
place of residence or date on any petition. A wife shall not use her husband’s
Christian or given name when she signs a petition, and she shall sign her own
Christian or given name along with her surname.
(Prior Code, § 1-1104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 35.25 PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.
   Included in the contents of every petition shall be an affidavit to be
signed by the circulator in the presence of a notary, which states that the
circulator is a qualified elector, that each person who signed the petition did
so in the presence of the circulator on the date indicated and that the
circulator believes that each signatory was registered to vote in the affected
jurisdiction at the time he or she signed the petition and that the circulator
believes that each signatory has stated his or her name and place of residence
correctly.
(Neb. RS 18-2517) (Prior Code, § 1-1105)
§ 35.26 PETITIONS, NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the county in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The municipality
shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that 100% of
the necessary signatures required by this subchapter have been obtained, he or
she shall notify the governing body of that fact and shall immediately forward
to the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk-Treasurer within six months from the date the prospective
petition was authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not
obtained by such date, the petition shall be void.
(Neb. RS 18-2518) (Prior Code, § 1-1106)
§ 35.27 FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure either in form or in essential substance may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition either affirmatively or
negatively more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Neb. RS 18-2519) (Prior Code, § 1-1107)
§ 35.28 DIRECT VOTE.
   The Chairperson and governing body of the municipality may at any time by
resolution provide for the submission to a direct vote of the electors of any
measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override of any veto if
necessary, or enacted by the electors under this subchapter and may provide in
such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a special election or
the next regularly scheduled primary or general election. Immediately upon the
passage of any such resolution for submission, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause
such measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the electors at the time
specified in such resolution and in the manner provided in this subchapter for
submission of measures upon proposals and petitions file by voters. Such matter
shall become law if approved by a majority of the votes cast.
(Neb. RS 18-2520) (Prior Code, § 1-1108)
§ 35.29 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall call elections under this subchapter, either
at a special election at a special election or regularly scheduled primary or
general election. He or she shall cause notice of every such election to be
printed in one or more newspapers of general circulation in such municipality
at least one but not less than 30 days prior to such election and also posted
in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and in at least three conspicuous places
in such municipality at least 30 days prior to such election.
   (B)   The notice shall be substantially as follows:
 
   Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the             day of                              , 20         , at (identify polling place or
precinct) of the Municipality of                                     , Nebraska, an election will be held at which there will be submitted to the
electors of the municipality for their approval or rejection, the following measures, propositions or issues:
 
(naming measures, propositions or issues), which election will be open at 8:00 a.m., and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same day. Dated
this                    day of                , 20       .
 
                                                                       Clerk-Treasurer
 
Village of                                        , Nebraska
 
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall make available for photocopying a copy in
pamphlet form of measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this
section shall designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(Neb. RS 18-2521) (Prior Code, § 1-1109)
§ 35.30 BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this subchapter shall be
prepared by the Clerk-Treasurer and furnished by the governing body, unless the
governing body contracts with the County for such service, and shall be in form
the same as provided by law for election of the executive officer and the
governing body of such municipality. When ordinances under such sections are
submitted to the electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election,
they shall be placed upon the official ballots as provided in this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 18-2522) (Prior Code, § 1-1110)
§ 35.31 INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure. An initiative shall
not be effective if the direct or indirect effect of the passage of such
initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an existing law or portion
thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject only to limited
referendum pursuant to §
35.31. Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to at
least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with the
Clerk-Treasurer and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body to
consider passage of the measure contained in the petition, including an
override of any veto necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure
without amendment, including an override of any veto if necessary, within 30
days from the date if received notification, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause
the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly
scheduled primary or general election held within the municipality.
   (B)   (1)   If the governing body desires to submit the measure to a vote of
the people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled primary
or general election held within the municipality, the governing body shall by
resolution direct the Clerk-Treasurer to cause the measure to be submitted at a
special election. Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum. Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number
to at least 20% of the qualified electors which requests that a special
election be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people has
been filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and verified pursuant to §
35.25, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider passage of the
measure contained in the petition, including an override of any veto if
necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure without amendment,
including an override of any veto if necessary, within 30 days from the date it
received notification, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such
purpose.
      (2)   The date of such election shall not be less than 30 days nor more
than 60 days from the date the governing body received notification pursuant to
§
35.25. If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the
municipality 30 days after certification of the election results unless the
governing body by resolution orders an earlier effective date or the measure
itself provided for a later effective date, which resolution shall not be
subject to referendum or limited referendum. A measure passed by such method
shall not be amended or repealed except by two-thirds majority of the members
of the governing body. No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within
one year from the passage of the measure by the electors.
(Prior Code, § 1-1111)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 35.32 REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures or portions thereof affecting the governance of the
municipality.
   (A)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations, including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness for projects previously
approved by a measure which was or is subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to the effective
date of this subchapter;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the State Budget Act, being Neb. RS 13-501 et
seq.;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by its executive officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (D) below for which a sufficient referendum petition
was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which received
voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the Clerk-Treasurer to cause measures to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election as provided in §§
35.30 and
35.32;
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in §
35.30; and
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act, being Neb. RS 13-2001 et
seq. by the municipality and which are necessary to carry out contractual
obligations provided for in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other
evidence of indebtedness.
   (B)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election, except that such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to the acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects and
measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness and
pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of the
governing body and the executive officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (C)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their passage by the governing body, including an override of any
veto if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to limited
referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to §
35.25 within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the governing body,
including an override of any veto if necessary, or after notice is first
published pursuant to division (D) below. If the necessary number of signatures
as provided in §
35.30 has been obtained within the time limitation, the effectiveness of the
measure shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
   (D)   (1)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property
utility systems or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, a municipality may exempt all subsequent measures relating to
the same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided
for in this subchapter by the following procedure:
         (a)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place
of such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to
the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
governing body’s jurisdiction;
         (b)   By passage of a measure approving the project including an
override of a veto if necessary at a meeting held on any date subsequent to the
date of hearings; and
         (c)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto
if necessary by giving notice as follows.
            1.   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum.
            2.   For projects which applicable statues do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice after that such
30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject to
any further right of referendum. The notice required by this section shall be
published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by the
governing body, including an override of a veto if necessary of a measure
approving the project.
      (2)   The right to hold such a hearing prior to the passage of the
measure by the governing body and give such notice after passage of such
measure by the governing body to obtain exemption for any particular project in
a manner described in this section is optional, and the municipality shall not
be required to hold such a hearing or give such notice for any particular
project.
   (E)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (A), (B) and (D) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the governing body, including an override of a veto if necessary
or enacted by the voters of the initiative.
(Prior Code, § 1-1112)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2527 and 18-2528
§ 35.33 REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk-Treasurer and verified pursuant to §
35.25, it shall be the duty of the governing body to reconsider the measure or
portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum. If the governing
body fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner
proposed by the referendum including an override of any veto if necessary
within 30 days from the date of the governing body receives notification
pursuant to §
35.25, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of
the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general election held
within the municipality. If the governing body desires to submit the measure to
a vote of the people at a special election prior to the next regularly
scheduled primary or general election held within the municipality, the
governing body shall by resolution direct the Clerk-Treasurer to cause the
measure to be submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall not be
subject to referendum or limited referendum.
   (B)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality which requests that a
special election be called to submit the referendum measure to a vote of the
people has been filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and verified. It shall be the
duty of the governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such measure
which is the object of the referendum. If the governing body fails to repeal or
amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner proposed by the referendum
including an override of any veto if necessary, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause
the measure to be submitted to a vote of the people at a special election
called for such purpose within 30 days from the date the governing body
received notification. The date of such special election shall not be less than
30 nor more than 60 days from the date the governing body received
notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1113)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes a
false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with
a limit of $300 on the fine.
   (B)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof or signs a false name thereto or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made or suppresses any petition or
any part thereof which has been duly filed pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501 through
18-2531, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500 on the
fine.
   (C)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531,
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this chapter, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such petition
or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to sign a
petition shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300 on the
fine.
   (D)   Any Clerk-Treasurer who willfully refuses to comply with the
provisions of Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531, or who causes unreasonable delay
in the execution of his or her duties under such sections shall be guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor, but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the
punishment.
(Prior Code, § 1-1114)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
CHAPTER 36: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Council of governments
   
36.02   Individual retirement account plan
   
36.03   Hazard mitigation plan adopted
   
36.04   Personnel manual adopted
   
36.05   Village department equipment use
   
36.06   Forms
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS.
   (A)   The village is hereby authorized by ordinance to join with any
incorporated villages, cities or counties that are eligible and may wish to
participate in the creation of the Region Eighteen Council of Governments
through the execution of an intergovernmental agreement.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Village Board is hereby authorized for and on
behalf of the village, as its corporate act and deed under its corporate name
and seal, to execute an agreement for participation by the village, in the
Region Eighteen Council of Governments, which agreement shall be substantially
in the words and figures set forth in that certain agreement, a copy of which
is attached hereto and made a part hereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201) (Ord. 198, passed 1-12-1976)
§ 36.02 INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNT PLAN.
   (A)   There is hereby established an individual retirement account plan for
all full-time employees of the village.
   (B)   The village shall make a contribution for all full-time employees to
the Adams Bank & Trust of Sutherland, Nebraska and/or Edward Jones which are
hereby designated Custodian as applicable. The amount of the contributions
shall be established for each of the full-time employees by resolution, as
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall constitute a continuing authorization
for the expenditure of funds, and the village may terminate this plan at any
time, although any contributions made on behalf of any full-time village
employee shall be fully vested.
(Prior Code, § 1-1301) (Ord. 621, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 36.03 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The governing body of the village adopts the Twin Platte NRD Multi-
jurisdictional Hazard Mitigation Plan Update in its entirety by reference and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Res. 2021-09-03, passed 9-22-2021)
§ 36.04 PERSONNEL MANUAL ADOPTED.
   The village provides a personnel manual to all employees upon hire. The
village’s personnel policies are set forth in the personnel manual and are on
file at the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The personnel manual may be
amended by resolution and is adopted by reference and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 1-1401) (Ord. 572, passed 1-9-2013; Res. 2014-05-01, passed 5-
28-2014; Res. 2014-11-01, passed 11-12-2014; Res. 2016-01-01, passed 1-27-2016;
Res. 2017-04-01, passed 4-10-2017; Res. 2017-08-01, passed 8- -2017; Res.
passed 6- -2018; Res. 2018-06-02, passed 6-13-2018; Res. 2018-06-01, passed 6-
27-2018; Res. passed 7- -2018; Res. 2018-07-01, passed 8-8-2018; Res. 2018-07-
02, passed 9-12-2018; Res. 2018-9-27, passed 10-10-2018; Res. 2018-9-28, passed
10-10-2018; Res. 2018-09-29, passed 10-10-2018; Res. 2018-11-01, passed 11-14-
2018; Res. 2018-12-01, passed 12-12-2018; Res. 2019-01-04, passed 1-23-2019;
Res. 2019-02-02, passed 2-27-2019; Res. 2019-03-04, passed 3-27-2019; Res.
2019-11-01, passed 11-13-2019; Res. 2020-09-02, passed 9-23-2020; Res. 2021-10-
01, passed 11- -2021; Res. 2022-08-05, passed 8-24-2022; Res. 2022-09-11,
passed 10- -2022; Res. 2023-02-02, passed 2- -2023)
§ 36.05 VILLAGE DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT USE.
   (A)   Policy. Village equipment is to be used for the day-to-day operations,
construction and maintenance and repair of facilities and services owned and
operated by the village. Village equipment may be rented out as set forth on a
fee schedule adopted by resolution by the governing body as amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 3-801)
   (B)   Exception. If the work or equipment is not available locally, from
within the village or county, then, with the consent of a majority of the
members of the Village Board, the work may be hired out by the village at a
rate to be established by resolution of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-802)
   (C)   Local government and non-profit organizations. Local government and
non-profit organizations may request the use of village equipment. If a
majority of the Village Board, at a Village Board meeting, consents, then the
equipment may be rented with the following provisions:
      (1)   A village employee operates the equipment on the particular job;
and
      (2)   The organization is responsible for the village employee’s time and
replacement of all materials (fuel, parts and the like).
(Prior Code, § 3-803)
   (D)   Mutual aid agreements. Nothing in this policy shall prevent the use of
village equipment in mutual aid agreements with other local government
entities.
(Prior Code, § 3-804)
§ 36.06 FORMS.
   Unless otherwise provided, all municipal license applications, license forms
and notice forms shall be substantially as follows, unless otherwise provided
by the governing body:
 
   NOTICE FORM:
 
Notice To:                                                                                      
Sutherland, Nebraska
                           , 20         
 
To:                                           
Owner (occupant) of the premises known as No:                                              
Street, legally described as follows, to-wit                                               
YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED TO                                           
YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED that failure to comply with this order constitutes a violation of prosecution and fine in the proper Court of said
                                          
 
                                           Clerk-Treasurer
 
   RETURN
 
STATE OF NEBRASKA
County of Lincoln
I,                        , Clerk-Treasurer of the Village of Sutherland, Nebraska, hereby certify that on
the                 day of                 , 20      at      o’clock,     .M., I served the within notice
on said                           by delivering a true and correct copy thereof to                         
personally (or by posting a typewritten copy thereof on said premises).
                                           Clerk-Treasurer
 
   CERTIFICATE
 
I,                                           Clerk-Treasurer of the Village of Sutherland, Nebraska, hereby certify that the foregoing is a
true, accurate and correct copy of a notice                                     now in my hands for services with all endorsements thereon.
Dated                                     , 20                                      by:                                  
                                          Clerk-Treasurer
 
   APPLICATION FORM
 
APPLICATION FOR                        LICENSE Sutherland, Nebraska,        , 20      I                                hereby make
application to the                              and                             of the Village of Sutherland, Nebraska, for license
to                                     in said village for period ending                      , 20               .
I certify that I am                                           and qualified to engage in                                 . I agree to
conform strictly to the ordinances of this                                              relative to said
                                          , and obey all orders, requirements and regulations of its lawfully constituted
authorities.
I include with this application all required documents.
I accompany this application with                                           Dollars ($                                ) in payment of
the occupation tax in the sum of                                       Dollars ($                 ), and bond for approval of the
                                          and                                           of said
                                          and other charges required by ordinance for the issuance of said license.
                                           Applicant
 
   LICENSE FORM
 
                                           LICENSE
License Fee $                                           
FOR THE CALENDAR YEAR: 20              
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
THAT                                           having paid $                                           the fee provided
by law                                           pursuant to application filed in the office of undersigned,
NOW THEREFORE, said                                           Nebraska to                                          
from the date last hereinafter written to December 31, 20         . Said license is issued on condition that licensee
and his or her employees shall at all times                                           
This license is neither negotiable nor transferable and shall be of no force and effect outside the corporate limits of
the municipality and if revoked and forfeited renders licensee ineligible to receive a new license for a period of one
year from the date of such revocation and forfeiture.
Date at Sutherland, Nebraska, this                  day of                          , 20              (SEAL)
                                           Clerk-Treasurer
 
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined a minimum of $50 and up to $500 maximum for
each offense.
   (B)   A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours
of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1501) (Ord. 476, passed 11-8-2006)
CHAPTER 37: VILLAGE RATES AND FEES
Section
   
37.01   Rates and fees established
   
37.02   Fee schedules
   
37.03   Natural gas; rate filing fee
§ 37.01 RATES AND FEES ESTABLISHED.
   The municipality shall establish a schedule of rates and fees necessary to
maintain various services or to secure various licenses. Said schedule of rates
and fees shall be set at such level as is necessary to ensure adequate revenue
for the expenses of day-to-day operation, maintenance and long-term capital
improvements or processing or to act as deterrent, whatever the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 12-101)
§ 37.02 FEE SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Schedule. A schedule of rates, fees and taxes shall be established and
amended from time to time by resolution or by ordinance by the governing body
for the following:
      (1)   Water services, reconnection fees and water monthly user rates by
property frontage feet;
      (2)   Sewer services, reconnection fees and sewer monthly use rates;
      (3)   Any other municipal utilities not specifically designated;
      (4)   Equipment rental:
         (a)   Equipment owned by the village shall only be available for
rental by other political subdivisions, including city, town, village,
district, association or other public body created by or pursuant to state law;
and with the permission of the Village Superintendent; and
         (b)   The restrictions contained herein shall not be applicable in the
event that a natural disaster or other emergency occurs, and in such event,
equipment shall be made available upon the permission of the Village
Superintendent.
      (5)   Solid waste collection;
      (6)   Dog and animal licenses;
      (7)   Occupation taxes;
      (8)   Tobacco license, per year;
      (9)   Elected official compensation, which shall only be changed by
ordinance;
      (10)   Site and land use permits;
      (11)   Moving permits;
      (12)   Peddlers and hawkers permits; and
      (13)   Any other fee created by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 12-102)
   (B)   Rates and fees. The village shall provide for fees to be charged for
the usage of the water and sewer systems owned by the village and sanitation
collection as provided through the village at fees as established and amended
from time to time by resolution or by ordinance by the governing body.
      (1)   Water rates for consumers of water from the waterworks system of
the village shall be based on a monthly consumption.
      (2)   Customer of the municipal sewer system shall be charged a flat rate
based on classifications and shall be established and amended from time to time
by resolution or by ordinance by the governing body.
      (3)   (a)   Solid waste sanitation monthly rates shall be established and
amended from time to time by resolution or by ordinance by the governing body.
         (b)   Commercial solid waste dumpsters that are removed by the village
due to nonpayment by the solid waste customer shall require a fee as set forth
by village resolution paid prior to the replacement of such commercial solid
waste dumpster.
         (c)   The sanitation deposit fee for new sanitation service is two
times the rate of one month’s service.
(Prior Code, § 12-103)
(Ord. 576, passed 8-14-2013; Ord. 630, passed 2-13-2019; Ord. 633, passed 5-8-
2019; Res. 2019-05-01, passed 5-8-2019; Res. 2021-09-01, passed 9-8-2021; Res.
2022-02-04, passed 2-23-2022; Res. 2022-03-02, passed 3-23-2022; Res. 2022-05-
01, passed 5-11-2022; Res. 2022-07-02, passed 7-22-2022; Res. 2023-03-02,
passed 3- -2023)
§ 37.03 NATURAL GAS; RATE FILING FEE.
   The village shall charge and collect a filing fee from natural gas companies
for a rate filing. The fee shall be $75.
(Prior Code, § 13-402) (Ord. 266, passed 12-9-1987)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   WATER WELLS AND OTHER FACILITIES
      
54.   SEWER
      
55.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Utilities user service fee
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Lien
   
50.05   Utility bills
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 UTILITIES USER SERVICE FEE.
   A mandatory monthly municipal utilities user service fee shall be charged to
all residents and commercial customers for municipal water, sewer and solid
waste collection services. The municipal utilities user service fee shall be
collected as a unit. Partial payments may be accepted.
(Prior Code, § 3-701)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to discontinue services and remove
its meters and other appurtenances if the charges for such services are not
paid within seven business days after the fifteenth of each month. The Village
Clerk-Treasurer shall send by first class mail a notice of disconnection of
service to the utility user on the first day after the fifteenth of the month.
Service shall not be discontinued for at least seven days after such notice of
disconnection is sent to the utility user. As to any subscriber who has
previously been identified to the village as a client of the State Department
of Health and Human Services, such notice shall be by first class mail, and
notice of such proposed termination shall be given to Health and Human
Services.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the village
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which services will be disconnected if the domestic
water subscriber does not take the appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a hearing regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the village may not disconnect the service pending
the conclusion of the hearing;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate
certifying that the domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the utility
service for a period of 30 days from such filing. Only one postponement of
disconnection shall be allowed under this division (B)(7) for each incidence of
nonpayment of any due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of services;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
village an installment payment plan which must be first approved by the
governing body;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that any domestic subscriber who is a
client of Health and Human Services may qualify for assistance in payment of
the utility bill and that the subscriber should contact his or her caseworker
in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the Village Board.
   (C)   (1)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the Village Clerk-Treasurer with a written statement that
sets forth the reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a written
statement is made by the subscriber, a hearing shall be held before the utility
may discontinue services.
      (2)   The Village Board shall constitute a committee to hear such
disputes. Such hearing shall be conducted at the Board meeting room, and
minutes shall be kept of such resolution hearing. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the Board shall render its decision and shall notify the utility
customer. In the event the utility customer is dissatisfied with such decision,
he or she shall have the right to appeal such decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction for further review.
   (D)   If a utility service is disconnected for nonpayment of utility bills,
a reconnection charge in an amount as established by the village by resolution
shall be assessed when such reconnection shall be made during regular working
hours, and a reconnection charge shall be assessed when such reconnection shall
be made after regular business hours, on weekend or holidays, in order to
compensate the municipality for the additional hookup necessary to again
provide water service to the delinquent customer. If an owner requests to have
a utility service shut off for any other reason, during normal business hours,
a reconnection charge shall also be assessed. In the case of an emergency, the
reconnection fee in an amount as established by the village by resolution may
be waived by the governing body. Reconnection charges must be paid by the
customer or owner prior to reconnection to water service.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any disconnection or interruptions of
service made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of any domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 12-203) (Ord. 548, passed 4-27-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537, 17-542, 17-1603, 17-1604 and 70-
1603 
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Any person who connects any pipe or conduit supplying water, without
the knowledge and consent of the village, in such manner that any portion
thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which water may be consumed
without passing through it, and any person who knowingly uses or knowingly
permits the use of water obtained in the above mentioned unauthorized ways
shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person who willfully injures, alters or by any instrument, device
or contrivance in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount
of the water passing through it without the knowledge and consent of the
village shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (C)   When water service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
through 70-1615 or §
50.02, any person who reconnects such service without the knowledge and consent
of the village shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
   (D)   Proof of existence of any pipe or conduit connection or reconnection
or of any injury, alteration or obstruction of a meter, as provided in this
section, shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in
possession of the premises where such connection reconnection, injury,
alteration or obstruction is provided to exist.
(Prior Code, § 12-205) (Ord. 547, passed 4-27-2011) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 86-329 through 86-331
§ 50.04 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the village for utility service furnished, such amount due together
with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent utility
rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the
same was used. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall notify in writing or cause to
be notified in writing all owners of premises or their agent whenever their
tenants or lessees are 30 days or more delinquent in the payment of utility
rent. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk-Treasurer on July 1 of each
year to report to the Village Board a list of all unpaid accounts due for
utilities, together with a description of the premises upon which the same was
used. The report shall be examined and, if approved by the Village Board, shall
be certified by the Village Clerk-Treasurer to the County Clerk to be collected
as a special tax in a manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 12-204) (Ord. 542, passed 4-27-2011)
§ 50.05 UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   Fees and collections. The governing body has the power and authority
to fix by ordinance the rates to be paid by the usage of consumers for the use
of utilities. All such fees shall be on file for public inspection at the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall collect all money
received by the municipality on the account of the utilities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 12-201)
   (B)   Billing.
      (1)   The Utilities Superintendent shall read or cause to be read the
water meters during the last week of the month during which water is consumed.
The Utilities Superintendent shall report meter readings to the Clerk-
Treasurer, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall charge and collect from each customer
payment for the amount of water and other utilities consumed since the last
meter reading, together with any other charges, properly itemized, due the
municipality.
      (2)   All bills for utility service are due and payable upon receipt.
After the fifteenth day of the month, the bill is deemed delinquent and a
penalty charge of 10% of the bill, with a minimum and a maximum amount as
established by the village by resolution, shall be assessed in addition to the
billed charge. A notice reminder of the unpaid bill will be sent as soon as
possible after the fifteenth day of the month of any unpaid bill by regular
U.S. mail to the address of the consumer. If the bill remains delinquent seven
days after the notice reminder is mailed, a disconnect notice will be served
upon any subscriber, in compliance with §
50.02.
      (3)   Any meter that does not have a curb stop and thus cannot be
individually shut-off is billed for the monthly fee regardless of usage.
(Prior Code, § 12-202) (Ord. 543, passed 4-27-2011; Ord. 545, passed 4-27-2011;
Ord. 588, passed 4-9-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-541
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The village may bring a civil action for damages against any person
who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts bypassing, tampering
or unauthorized metering when any such act results in damages to a village
utility. The village may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to this
section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service through
means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
   (B)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the village
shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering, to recover as damages the amount of the actual damage or
loss if the amount of the damage of loss is susceptible to reasonable
calculation, or liquidated damages, or $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible to reasonable calculation.
   (C)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (A) or (B) above, the
village may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred due to the
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, including, but not limited to,
disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment costs of the suit and
reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-1801.
   (D)   There shall be rebuttable presumption that a tenant or occupant at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the tenant or occupant had access to the part of the utility supply system
on the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist and was responsible or partially responsible for payment,
either directly or indirectly, to the utility or any other person for utility
services to the premises.
   (E)   There shall be rebuttable presumption that a customer at any premises
where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist caused
or had knowledge of such bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering if the
customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven to
exist.
   (F)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws, and the
remedies provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of
any civil or criminal statutory or common law remedies.
(Prior Code, § 12-206) (Ord. 546, passed 4-27-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited acts; penalty, see Neb. RS 14-2149
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Operation and funding
   
51.03   Mandatory collection service
   
51.04   Storage of waste
   
51.05   Collection of waste
   
51.06   Disposal of waste
   
51.07   Sanitary conditions required
   
51.08   Delivery to village compost site prohibited
   
51.09   Disposal at approved site
   
51.10   Commercial enterprises
   
51.11   Dead animals
   
51.12   Rates and charges; delinquent collection fees
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED RECEPTACLES. Tote carts or two-cubic-yard-capacity containers
provided by the contract vendor for the collection of solid waste.
   APPROVED WASTE DISPOSAL OR LANDFILL SITE. A place that has been approved by
the state for the disposal of garbage, trash and waste, as well as used
building materials and debris from construction, renovations or demolition.
   COLLECTION STOP. Each single-family dwelling including homes, mobile homes,
trailers or modular homes or each unit of a multi-family dwelling, each
commercial business location and each school, hospital, nursing home or other
institution which generates garbage, trash or waste and is located within the
corporate limits of the village. Any single-family dwelling which is also a
commercial business location shall be considered a single COLLECTION STOP. More
than one commercial business at a single address shall be considered a single
COLLECTION STOP.
   CONTRACT VENDOR. The commercial garbage collection business having a valid
contract with the governing body for the collection and disposal of solid waste
within the village.
   GARBAGE. Any animal, fruit, vegetable, kitchen refuse or other material that
will or may decompose and become offensive or dangerous to health, but not
including dead animals or manure.
   TRASH. Wooden or cardboard boxes, chips or pieces of wood, bottles, broken
glass, crockery, tin cans, papers, rags or any other litter or debris that is
not an immediate hazard to the health of the residents of the village;
provided, however, that used or discarded furniture or appliances, tree limbs,
branches, sticks, yard waste, garden waste, leaves or grass clippings are not
included within the meaning of the word TRASH.
   WASTE. Cinders or ashes (when cool to the touch), broken plaster, brick,
stone, sawdust, paper, plastic, glass, broken glass or metal.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, garden residue, excess garden produce,
sticks, branches and tree limbs.
(Prior Code, § 3-410) (Ord. 358, passed 9-14-1994)
§ 51.02 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality shall have the power to establish a solid waste management
system within the corporate limits. When such system shall have been
established, the municipality may provide by ordinance for the management and
operation thereof, the rates to be charged for such service, including
collection and disposal, the manner of payment and collection thereof and
prescribe penalties for the violation of such ordinance and do whatever is
necessary to protect the general health in the manner of removal and disposal
of garbage.
(Prior Code, § 3-401)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2111
§ 51.03 MANDATORY COLLECTION SERVICE.
   (A)   All garbage, trash and solid waste generated within the corporate
limits of the village shall be collected in approved receptacles for disposal
by the contract vendor. The contract vendor shall collect all garbage, trash
and waste from the approved receptacles at each collection stop not less
frequently than weekly.
   (B)   In case of weather, road conditions, disaster or other acts of God
which makes scheduled collections impossible or impractical, collection will be
made as soon thereafter as impediment can reasonably be overcome. Each
collection stop shall have approved receptacles provided by the contract vendor
sufficient for the purpose of accumulation of all garbage, trash and waste
which has been generated at said collection stop since the last collection.
   (C)   The approved receptacles shall be made available to the contract
vendor by 6:00 a.m. on the scheduled collection date by placing the approved
receptacles in the alley, or at the edge of the street in front of the
premises, as determined by the contract vendor.
(Prior Code, § 3-402) (Ord. 358, passed 9-14-1994)
§ 51.04 STORAGE OF WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any dwelling
house, building or premises in the municipality any decayed vegetable or animal
substance, garbage, rubbish or refuse matter, or any substance that may be
injurious to the public health or offense to the residents or inhabitants of
the vicinity unless the same is kept in containers and/or receptacles as set
forth in this chapter. It shall be unlawful to throw or sweep into the streets,
alleys, parks or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass,
refuse, garbage, trash or waste of any kind. No person may permit yard waste,
garbage, trash or waste to accumulate and all persons shall properly dispose of
the same within 24 hours after notification from the Chairperson of the Board
of Trustees, who shall represent the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 3-406) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 COLLECTION OF WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle on any
public street or alley in the municipality; provided, that this section shall
not be construed to prohibit solid waste in a container complying with the
provisions of this chapter prior to having such material collected and disposed
of in the manner provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-407) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 DISPOSAL OF WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Dispose of any solid waste except in compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   Dispose of any solid waste at the compost site except in compliance
with this chapter;
      (3)   Collect and dispose of any solid waste within the municipality
except as authorized in this chapter; and/or
      (4)   Burn garbage, trash, waste, refuse, rubbish or debris within the
corporate limits; provided, that the Fire Chief or his or her designated
representative may authorize the burning of grass or weeds, through the
issuance of a burn permit, and the burning of old buildings and other
combustibles by the Fire Department in firefighting practice and training.
   (B)   A burn permit may be obtained from the office of the Village Clerk-
Treasurer for the burning of leaves and yard waste for clean-up purposes during
the fall of the year, which permit shall require the approval of the Village
Fire Chief. No burning shall take place at the compost site unless specifically
authorized by the governing body.
   (C)   Burning may be permitted in containers approved by the Fire Chief.
Such containers must be fireproof and have a metal screen or grate covering the
opening.
(Prior Code, § 3-408) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 SANITARY CONDITIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Nothing in here shall be construed to prohibit the following:
      (1)   Recycling of wastes in any municipality approved program for
ecological purposes; or
      (2)   Disposal of garbage or refuse by means of a kitchen or home
disposal unit.
   (B)   The container privileges of this chapter shall not apply to large,
bulky refuse which may not be placed within a suitable container.
(Prior Code, § 3-409)
§ 51.08 DELIVERY TO VILLAGE COMPOST SITE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deliver any garbage, trash, waste, used building materials
and debris from construction, renovations or demolitions to the village compost
site for disposal except upon express consent of the governing body. Under no
circumstances shall any person deliver any such garbage, trash, waste or other
materials to the village compost site after the village compost site has been
closed by order of the governing body. Yard waste may be delivered to the
village compost site for composting when authorized by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-411) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 DISPOSAL AT APPROVED SITE.
   Used building materials and debris from construction, renovations or
demolition shall be removed from the village by the owner thereof and delivered
to an approved waste disposal or landfill site for disposal. Such removal and
disposal shall be at the expense of the owner of said materials. Any bulky
garbage, trash or waste that does not fit into the approved receptacles shall
be delivered to an approved waste disposal or landfill site by the owner
thereof at his or her expense; provided, however, that items such as discarded
furniture or appliances may be removed by the contract vendor on request.
(Prior Code, § 3-412)
§ 51.10 COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES.
   Any business, firm or commercial enterprise conducting business in the
village shall be required to properly dispose of its garbage, trash and waste
in accordance with this chapter; provided, however, that such business, firm or
commercial enterprise shall make arrangements directly with the contract vendor
or any other person for the removal and disposal of such garbage, trash and
waste. Any fees charged by the contract vendor or any other person for the
removal and disposal of such garbage, trash and waste shall be paid directly to
the contract vendor or other person by the business, firm or commercial
enterprise.
(Prior Code, § 3-413)
§ 51.11 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be removed and buried, or otherwise disposed of in a
manner that will not endanger the health of any resident of the village, by the
owner of such animals within 12 hours after death occurs. If the owner of such
animal does not take the appropriate measures within the required time, the
village may dispose of the animal, in which case the owner of the animal shall
be liable for the costs of removal and disposal. When disposal is accomplished
by burying, the animal shall be buried at least two feet deep. It shall be
unlawful for a dead animal to be placed in an approved receptacle or disposed
of in the village landfill.
(Prior Code, § 3-414) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 RATES AND CHARGES; DELINQUENT COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   Schedule of charges. The governing body shall by resolution set forth
a schedule of charges for collection of solid waste. That schedule of charges
may be modified or amended by the governing body by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-403)
   (B)   Collection charges. The solid waste collection charges shall be billed
to the residents of the municipality along with and at the same time said
residents are billed for water and sewer charges. Charges for said solid waste
collection shall be collected at the same time, in the same manner and by the
same offices as water and sewer charges are collected by the municipality.
Unpaid solid waste collection charges shall be deemed delinquent on the same
day water and sewer charges are deemed delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 3-404)
   (C)   Delinquent collection charges. All delinquent solid waste collection
charges are hereby declared to be a lien upon the premises or real estate for
which or upon which the same was used or supplied, and upon the refusal of said
person, firm or corporation to pay said delinquent collection fees, they shall
be collected by being placed upon the assessment rolls and the tax books for
collection, like any other taxes, as further provided herein. It shall be the
duty of the Clerk-Treasurer on the second Monday of January of each year to
report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for solid waste
collection, together with a description of the premises or real estate upon or
for which the collection services were used or supplied, the same to be
collected as other taxes by the County Treasurer of said county. Prior to
certification to the County Clerk, the municipality shall give 30 days’ written
notice to the owner of record of the subject property, said notice to be by
certified mail or registered mail.
(Prior Code, § 3-405)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each
offense. Each day any violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-415)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operating and funding
   
52.03   Consumer application
   
52.04   Water contract
   
52.05   Installation
   
52.06   Water permits
   
52.07   Service deposit; when required; refund
   
52.08   Single premises
   
52.09   Restricted use
   
52.10   Fire hydrants
   
52.11   Pollution
   
52.12   Mandatory hook-up
   
52.13   Water service contracts
   
52.14   Inspection
   
52.15   Destruction of property
   
52.16   Service to nonresidents
   
52.17   Repairs
   
52.18   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
   
52.19   Right to disconnect
   
52.20   Fluoride prohibited
Cross-Connection Control
   
52.35   General provisions
   
52.36   Definitions
   
52.37   Cross-connections prohibited
Backflow Prevention Program
   
52.50   Implementation; notice to consumers
   
52.51   Backflow prevention device required
   
52.52   Inspection and maintenance
   
52.53   Violations
   
52.54   Liability claims
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.65   Police reports
   
52.66   Complaints
   
52.67   Designation of consumer’s representative
   
52.68   Surveys and investigations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEEMED AVAILABLE. Any water main which passes through the premises or
through a street, alley or easement adjacent to or abutting such premises.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply line. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate purpose.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the supply pipe to the location on the
premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY LINE. Any copper or poly tubing extending from the main to a point at
or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shutoff, stop box or
curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.02 OPERATING AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department for
the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of
the Municipal Water Department. The Village Board of Trustees may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation.
   (B)   The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall
remain in the custody of the Clerk-Treasurer. The governing body shall set
rates to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and shall file a copy of
the rates in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection at any
reasonable time. The water billing procedure is located in Ch. 50.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
§ 52.03 CONSUMER APPLICATION.
   Every person who desires to connect to the Municipal Water Department must
make an application to the Village Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall pay an
account deposit. The schedule of all fees are on file at the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer and shall be established by resolution of the governing
body as amended from time to time. Such deposit shall be refundable upon
voluntary consumer discontinuation, or at such time that a request is made
after three years of uninterrupted and presently current, continued service.
Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon
order of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 619, passed 5-9-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537 and 19-2701
§ 52.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water to
persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street, alley or
easement in which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The rules,
regulations and water rates hereinafter named in this chapter and on file in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered part of
the contract now or hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of
an application on the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of water
service by present consumers thereof and the furnishing of water service to
said consumer shall constitute a contract between the consumer and the
municipality to which said contract both parties are bound. If the consumer
shall violate any of the provisions of said contract, or any reasonable rules
and regulations that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent may cut off or disconnect the water service
from the building or premises or place of such violation. No further connection
for water service to said building, premises or place shall be made save or
except by order of said Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon approval of the customers application, the municipality shall
tap the municipal main and the customer shall then be responsible for
installation of service from the shut off valve on the main to the premises
served, including pipe, trenching, corporation cock and curb stop. A water
meter is required for every curb stop, and a curb stop is required for every
water meter. A licensed plumber shall connect the water service from the main
to the residence. All services that need to be updated or replaced shall comply
with all of the installation procedures of this chapter.
      (2)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the
purpose of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must
be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience
to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After service pipes are laid,
the streets, alleys and sidewalk shall be restored to good condition. If for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by
the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be made when
connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The
second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed and the
service is restored. It is the licensed plumber’s responsibility to notify the
Village Utility Superintendent at the time the work is ready for inspection.
All installations shall be done under the supervision of the Utilities
Superintendent and strictly in accordance with the rules, regulations and
specifications prescribed for such installation; provided, that the rules,
regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing
body.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
   (B)   Expense. The subscriber shall pay the expense of providing water
service from the municipal main to the premises served. The necessary expenses
incurred by the Utilities Superintendent when installing the water service,
including, but not limited to, pipe, trenching, corporation cock, service
clamps and labor are the responsibility of the customer as well as the cost of
water meters for service over one and one-half inch.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
(Ord. 464, passed 6-22-2005; Ord. 587, passed 4-9-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.06 WATER PERMITS.
   Upon observation by the Utilities Superintendent or upon filing of a
complaint by any citizen in the municipality, any customer of the Water
Department using excessive amounts of water without first obtaining a permit
shall be issued a notice to appear before the governing body to show cause why
he or she should not be required to apply for a heavy user permit and pay
additional water fees. If said customer does not appear before the governing
body or does not satisfactorily show that his or her water use is not
excessive, he or she shall be billed an additional fee set by the governing
body and, if the customer fails to pay said additional fee, he or she shall
have his or her water service disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542 and 70-1601 through 70-1615
§ 52.07 SERVICE DEPOSIT; WHEN REQUIRED; REFUND.
   (A)   A service deposit in an amount as established by the village by
resolution shall be paid by all customers of the Municipal Water Department. If
a customer fails to pay for water charges, delinquent water charges shall be
deducted from the customer’s service deposit. The service deposit shall be
collected by the Clerk-Treasurer who shall keep said funds for the customers of
the Municipal Water Department. Said trust funds shall be put out at interest
separate and apart from other funds. Interest arising therefrom shall be
expended solely for the repair of equipment and property of the Municipal Water
Department.
   (B)   If a customer of the Municipal Water Department terminates water
service for any reason, and then asks to be reconnected to water service at the
same location or a different location within the municipality, then a new
service deposit in an amount as established by the village by resolution shall
be required.
   (C)   If the water service is interrupted for less than ten days, the
Village Board may, in its absolute discretion, waive the requirement of a new
service deposit prior to reconnection of water service.
   (D)   In the event a water service customer has received water service from
the village for more than three years, the Village Board may, in its absolute
discretion, return the security deposit to the water service customer if the
customer has maintained three years of uninterrupted and presently current,
continued service with the village. All forfeited deposits shall go to the
village’s water deposit account.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 619, passed 5-9-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.08 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or attachment without
the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent. It shall be further
unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter or by means of any
contrivance or device to divert the water from the service pipe so that the
water will not pass through the meter or, while passing through said meter,
will cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a
reduction in the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the
event of a water shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. In
the event of said water shortage, the governing body or the Utilities
Superintendent shall notify the customer of the Water Department by posting in
three prominent places throughout the municipality notice of said shortage and
the restrictions imposed. In the event that any person abuses his or her
privileges of use of the water system by continued and excessive use to such an
extent as to endanger the health and welfare of the residents of the
municipality, the governing body or Utilities Superintendent shall notify said
customer by personal service or by posting a notice at the customer’s premises,
and if said excessive use is not abated within 12 hours after said
notification, the Utilities Superintendent shall disconnect said water service
and shall not reconnect the water service until the customer shall pay to the
Clerk-Treasurer a reconnection fee, as established by the governing body.
   (B)   The municipality shall not be liable for any damages caused by
shutting off the supply of water of any customer while the system or any part
thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a shortage of water due to
circumstances over which the municipality has no control.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-110)
§ 52.10 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared
public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members of
the Municipal Fire Department under orders of the Fire Chief or members of the
Water Department to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw water
from the same or in any manner to interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Neb. RS 17-536) (Prior Code, § 3-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.12 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   Upon written notice of the governing body, each property owner, occupant or
lessee of any premises where water service is deemed available within 300 feet
of a water main shall without delay cause said premises to be connected to the
water system. All habitable buildings shall be equipped with inside water
facilities. No person shall be permitted to hook up a heat exchanger, heat
pump, cooling system device or other mechanical device to the municipal water
system.
(Neb. RS 17-539) (Prior Code, § 3-113)
§ 52.13 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing
to change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a
new contract. If any consumer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the water
service to be shut off at said premises.
   (B)   If the consumer should fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged
for all water used on said premises until the Utilities Superintendent is
otherwise advised in such circumstances.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-114)
§ 52.14 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building
to or in which water is delivered for the purpose of examining the pipes,
fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any
disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-119)
§ 52.15 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.16 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The municipality shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be
paid by the consumer. All mains, service pipe and supply lines shall meet the
standards set by the governing body in regard to size of lines, material used
and workmanship and further be subject to inspection by the Utilities
Superintendent prior to being backfilled. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Neb. RS 19-2701) (Prior Code, § 3-118)
§ 52.17 REPAIRS.
   Repairs to the service pipe shall be made at the expense of the customer.
All other repairs to the property of the Water Department shall be made by the
municipality.
(Neb. RS 17-542) (Prior Code, § 3-120)
§ 52.18 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential facility that is connected to the public water supply system shall
be lead free.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   When used with respect to solders and flux, containing not more
than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   When used with respect to pipe and pipe fittings, pipe and pipe
fittings containing not more than 8% lead.
(Neb. RS 71-5301) (Prior Code, § 3-121)
§ 52.19 RIGHT TO DISCONNECT.
   The village may disconnect utility service for any of the following reasons
or for reasons permitted by federal, state or municipal law:
   (A)   Failure to meet applicable provisions of the law;
   (B)   Violation of these ordinances or regulations pertaining to utility
service;
   (C)   Nonpayment of past or present utility bills;
   (D)   Willful or negligent waste of service due to improper or imperfect
pipes, fixtures, appliances or otherwise;
   (E)   Tampering with any meter, seal or other equipment controlling or
regulating the supply of utility service;
   (F)   Theft or diversion and/or use of service without payment thereafter;
and
   (G)   Vacancy or abandonment of premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-123)
§ 52.20 FLUORIDE PROHIBITED.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water supply of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 52.35 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)    Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the municipal water
system from contamination or pollution by containing within the consumer’s
internal distribution system or private water system contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public potable
water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation or control of
existing cross-connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures and industrial-process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water system of the municipality.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted. It is the
municipality’s intent to recognize the varying degrees of hazard and to apply
the principle that the degree of protection shall be commensurate with the
degree of hazard.
      (2)   The Municipal Water Department and governing body shall be
primarily responsible for protection of the public potable water distribution
system from contamination or pollution due to backflow or contaminants or
pollutants through the water service connection. The cooperation of all
consumers is required to implement and maintain the program to control cross-
connections. The consumer is responsible for preventing contamination of the
water system within the consumer’s own premises.
      (3)   If, in the judgment of the authorized representative, cross-
connection protection is required through either piping modification or
installation of an approved backflow prevention device, 30 days’ notice shall
be given to the consumer. The failure, refusal or inability on the part of the
consumer to provide requested protection within 30 days shall make the consumer
subject to discontinuance of water service at the discretion of the Municipal
Water Department according to the degree hazard without further notice.
(Neb. RS 17-537) (Prior Code, § 3-125)
§ 52.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of said
receptacle. An approved air gap shall be at least double the diameter of the
supply pipe, measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the receptacle
and in no case less than one inch.
   ANTI-SIPHON VACUUM BREAKER. A device which restricts the backflow of water
into a potable water system by a simple check valve. The vacuum is broken by
allowing air to enter upstream of the check valve.
   APPROVED. A term meaning that a backflow prevention device or method has
been accepted by the Inspector as being suitable for the intended use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water supply system available to the premises
other than the public water supply system and includes the water supplied by
such system. These AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEMS may include water from another
owner’s public water supply system; polluted or contaminated water; process
fluids; used water; or other sources of water over which the owner of the
public water supply system does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW or BACKSIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or
substances into the water distribution system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. Devices such as an
approved air gap, double check valve assembly, anti-siphon vacuum breaker or a
reduced pressure principle device can be used if approved by the Inspector.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in possession or control of any premises
supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water supply system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply system located on the consumer’s
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water supply
system. A household plumbing system is considered to be a CONSUMER’S WATER
SUPPLY SYSTEM. A fire suppression system is also considered a CONSUMER’S WATER
SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility or as an installation within equipment handling potentially dangerous
materials.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage or waste
to a degree which could cause an actual hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any arrangement whereby contamination due to backflow or
backsiphonage can occur.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. A term derived from an evaluation of the potential risk to
health and the adverse effects upon the potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting check valves including 100% closing shutoff ball valves
located at each end of the assembly and suitable connections for testing that
each check valve is watertight.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates a real or potential danger to the health and well-being
of the consumer.
   INDUSTRIAL PROCESS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollution or
plumbing hazard if introduced into a potable water supply.
   INTERCHANGEABLE CONNECTION. An arrangement or device that will allow
alternate but not simultaneous uses of two sources of water.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility service line by installing a cross-
connection control device or air gap separation on an individual fixture,
appurtenance or system.
   LICENSED PLUMBER. A person who has obtained the appropriate license to
perform plumbing-related work within village limits of this village.
   NONPOTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use, or
which does not meet the requirements of the State Department of Health.
   PERSON. The state, any political subdivision, public or private corporation,
individual, partnership or other legal entity. When the term “he” or “his” is
used, it shall refer to any male or female person.
   PLUMBING HAZARD. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by air gap separation or
backflow prevention devices.
   POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substance (organic,
inorganic or biological) that degrades the quality of water to a degree which
does not necessarily cause an actual hazard to the public health, but which
does adversely and unreasonably affect such water for any desired use.
   POLLUTION HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable
or degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or the consumer’s water supply system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the State Department of Health.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A water supply system designed and intended to
provide potable water to a designated consumer. The water supply shall include
the water supply source and distribution piping network.
      (1)   DISTRIBUTION PIPING NETWORK. All piping, pumping and treatment
devices used to convey an adequate quality and quantity of potable water to the
consumer.
      (2)   WATER SUPPLY SOURCE. Any artificial or natural accumulation of
water used to supply the potable water system.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between two check valves.
During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure these two
checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In cases of leakage of either
check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere,
shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than
the supply pressure. The unit must include a 100% closing shutoff ball valve
located at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with
properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual or potential threat of damage to
the physical properties of the public’s or the consumer’s water supply system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by the public water supply system to a
consumer’s water supply system after it has passed through the service
connection and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water supplier.
   WATER DEPARTMENT. The owner, operator or individual in responsible charge of
a public water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
§ 52.37 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public’s potable or
consumer’s water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water
Department and as required by the laws and regulations of the State Department
of Health.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer’s water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Municipal Water Department and the State
Department of Health.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
Municipal Water Department as necessary for the protection of health and
safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-127) Penalty, see §
10.99
BACKFLOW PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 52.50 IMPLEMENTATION; NOTICE TO CONSUMERS.
   (A)   The Inspector shall be responsible for the implementation of the
backflow prevention program as outlined within this subchapter. If an approved
backflow prevention device is required for the safety of the public water
supply system, the Inspector shall give notice in writing to the consumer to
install said device at each recommended location. The Inspector shall inspect
and approve all installations of the required backflow prevention devices. The
costs for purchasing, installing and maintaining a backflow prevention device
shall be the responsibility and sole expense of the consumer. The installation
of backflow prevention devices, except for outlet fixture vacuum breakers,
shall be by a licensed plumber. Annual testing of all double check valves and
reduced pressure zone devices shall be performed by a licensed backflow
professional. If maintenance or repairs are necessary, the owner shall be
contacted and issued an order by the Inspector to make all necessary repairs or
maintenance. The owner shall complete all maintenance or repairs within 30
days; if not, the owner shall be considered in violation of this subchapter and
will be subject to disconnection of water services as provided in this
subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall install or maintain a water service connection
containing cross-connections to a public water supply system unless such cross-
connections are abated or controlled in accordance with this subchapter, and as
required by the laws and regulations of the State Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 3-129)
§ 52.51 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the
service connection and the point of potential backflow into a consumer’s water
supply system when a health, plumbing, pollution or system hazard exists.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed when the
following conditions are found by the Inspector to exist:
      (1)   Premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as to
create an actual or potential hazard to a public water supply system. This
shall include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or
waters originating from a public water supply system which are no longer under
the sanitary control of the owner;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or there exist intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impracticable to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established; and
      (5)   Premises having more than one customer service connection which
could constitute a potential cross-connection.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water supply system serving the following types of
facilities unless the Inspector determines that no health, pollution or system
hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, dental clinics, nursing/convalescent homes
and medical buildings;
      (2)   Testing laboratories, film laboratories and film development
facilities;
      (3)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations;
      (4)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (5)   Chemical plants;
      (6)   Metal de-greasing, plating industries, machine tool plants, dye and
metal processing or productions;
      (7)   Chemical and petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (8)   Car washes, automobile servicing facilities;
      (9)   Lawn irrigation systems having chemical injection capabilities and
swimming pools;
      (10)   Laundries and dry cleaners;
      (11)   Packing houses;
      (12)   Power plants;
      (13)   Premises having radioactive materials such as laboratories,
industries and hospitals;
      (14)   Rendering plants;
      (15)   Premises having a water re-circulating system used for boilers or
cooling systems;
      (16)   Veterinary establishments, kennels, feed yards, stables, rodeo
grounds, stock-yards and pet grooming salons;
      (17)   Beauty salons, barbershops, massage parlors and health clubs;
      (18)   Fire suppression systems;
      (19)   Multi-storied buildings greater than three stories in height;
      (20)   Schools, universities and colleges;
      (21)   Other commercial or industrial facilities which may constitute
potential cross-connection; and
      (22)   All hot water and steam boiler heating systems.
(Prior Code, § 3-131)
§ 52.52 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by this subchapter are installed to have
inspections, tests and overhauls made in accordance with the following schedule
and 179 NAC 22.
      (1)   Air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of installation
and at least every 12 months thereafter.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
      (3)   Devices shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned and
repaired whenever needed.
      (4)   Reduced pressure principal backflow prevention devices shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter. They shall be dismantled, inspected internally,
cleaned and repaired whenever needed.
   (B)   Overhauls of backflow prevention devices shall be made at the expense
of the water consumer and shall be performed by a state certified backflow
prevention device tester.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices designed with testing cocks shall be
inspected and tested each year, and those tests performed by the Municipal
Water Department will be at the expense of the Water Department. Tests
performed by others shall be at the expense of the consumer.
   (D)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this subchapter are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay.
   (E)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device that has test cocks from purchase to retirement. Records of
inspections, test, repairs and overhauls performed by others shall be submitted
to the Municipal Water Department upon completion.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-132)
§ 52.53 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Municipal Water Department shall have the right to deny or
discontinue, after notice to the consumer thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein:
   (B)   Any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed or maintained in a manner acceptable to the Municipal Water
Department if:
      (1)   It is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed;
      (2)   An unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises;
      (3)   A low pressure cut-off required by this chapter is not installed
and maintained in working order; and/or
      (4)   The Municipal Water Department is denied entry to determine
compliance with these regulations.
   (C)   The Municipal Water Department shall immediately deny or discontinue,
without notice to the consumer thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein a severe cross-connection exists which constitutes an immediate threat
to the safety of the public water system. The Municipal Water Department shall
notify the consumer within 24 hours of said denial or discontinuation of
service.
   (D)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Municipal Water
Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-133)
§ 52.54 LIABILITY CLAIMS.
   Employees of the Municipal Water Department shall be relieved from personal
liability, when acting in good faith and without malice, for any damage that
may occur to any person or property as a result of any act required or
authorized by the regulations affecting the Municipal Water Department, cross-
connections, backflow prevention devices or by any act or omission of the
employee of the Municipal Water Department in the discharge of his or her
duties hereunder. Any suit brought carrying out the provisions of these
regulations shall be defended by the municipality or by the municipality’s
insurance carrier, if any, through final determination of such proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 3-134)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.65 POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff’s Department to report to the
Utilities Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and
all violations of this code relating to the Water Department and shall have the
additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)
§ 52.66 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent or Clerk-Treasurer may appear
before the governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who
considers himself or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge
demanded for the use of water or for resumption of water service after the same
shall have been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest, in which event
the Clerk-Treasurer shall write on the receipt given such customer the words
“Paid Under Protest.” Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim
in the manner provided for presenting claims to the governing body in the same
manner as other claims against the municipality as set forth in §
34.04.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
§ 52.67 DESIGNATION OF CONSUMER’S REPRESENTATIVE.
   The consumer, as defined in these regulations, if requested by the
Inspector, shall designate an individual or individuals who shall be
responsible for contact and communications with the Inspector in matters
relating to system alteration and construction, monitoring and sampling,
maintenance, operation, record keeping and reporting, as required by law and
these regulations. Any change in assigned responsibilities or designated
individuals shall be promptly reported to the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 3-128)
§ 52.68 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct or
cause to be conducted periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her
premises as necessary to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections in the consumer’s water supply system. The Inspector shall have the
authority to conduct or cause to be conducted periodic surveys and
investigations, of a frequency as determined by the Inspector, of water use
practices within a consumer’s premises to determine whether there are actual or
potential cross-connection to the consumer’s water supply system through which
contaminants or pollutants could backflow into the public water supply system.
The Inspector may conduct these surveys to provide information in determining
what level of protection will be necessary to protect the public health and
safety.
   (B)   On request by the Inspector, the consumer shall furnish the Inspector
information on water use practices within the consumer’s premises. If the
consumer refuses to submit the proper information or to cooperate in obtaining
the proper information, the Inspector shall treat the premises as if no
appropriate cross-connection survey has been complete, and in such event the
consumer shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention device.
   (C)   The Inspector shall have the right to enter a premises served by the
public water supply system at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
surveys and investigations of water use practices within the premises. In order
to inspect a premises, the Inspector shall give notice setting forth a proposed
date and time to the consumer at least ten days in advance. If the consumer
cannot make the premises available for inspection at the proposed date and
time, the consumer shall contact the Inspector and arrange for another date and
time for the inspection. If the Inspector and the consumer cannot agree on a
date and time, the Inspector shall treat the premises as if no appropriate
cross-connection survey has been completed, and in such event, the consumer
shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention device as required
by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-130)
CHAPTER 53: WATER WELLS AND OTHER FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Well permits
   
53.02   Abandoned wells
   
53.03   Cross-connections prohibited
   
53.04   Discontinuance by governing body
   
53.05   Cancellation of permit
   
53.06   Consent by permittee
Well-Head Protection Program
   
53.20   Purpose
   
53.21   Identification of existing wells
   
53.22   Permit required
   
53.23   Wells prohibited
   
53.24   Wells removed from service
   
53.25   Protection area
   
53.26   Municipal water supply protection
   
53.27   Sources of contamination
   
53.28   Management and prevention
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 WELL PERMITS.
   (A)   Well permits. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dig, drill or
construct a well within the corporate limits of the municipality without first
having obtained a permit therefor from the governing body.
      (2)   The applications for private well permits shall be obtained from
the Clerk-Treasurer and shall set forth:
         (a)   The location of proposed well in conjunction with sewers: No
well shall be located within 50 feet of any sewer line, private or public. No
well shall be located within 500 feet of any septic tank or within 500 feet of
any disposal field or with 1,000 feet of existing municipal wells;
         (b)   The location of proposed well in conjunction with water lines:
No well shall be located within 25 feet of any water line public or private;
         (c)   The intended use of water: No water from the private wells shall
be used for domestic purposes;
         (d)   The depth of proposed well;
         (e)   The size and type of casing to be installed;
         (f)   The pumping equipment to be used; and
         (g)   The name and address of well driller.
      (3)   Such application shall be accompanied by an application fee which
shall cover the inspections, no part of which is refunded if the application is
denied. The amount of the fee is on file at the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s
office. Applications shall be valid for a time period of 90 days following
payment of such fee, after which such permit is renewable.
      (4)   Closed loop heating pump systems are not considered wells for the
purpose of this section, provided holes are not drilled into the water table.
(Prior Code, § 3-135)
   (B)   Temporary well permit. The municipality may grant a temporary well
permit when an emergency is determined to exist for purposes other than lawn
and garden irrigation. In granting said permit, the municipality may establish
conditions under which said well is operated, including the purposes therefor,
its location, the period of time during which such well shall be operated,
conditions for the closing and capping of such well and such safety
requirements as the governing body may provide and such other conditions as may
protect the health and welfare of the municipality. The application for a
temporary well permit shall give the same information as required for a regular
well permit and shall be accompanied by an application fee, no part of which
shall be refunded if the application is denied.
(Prior Code, § 3-136)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.02 ABANDONED WELLS.
   All abandoned wells shall be properly abandoned, closed up or destroyed in
accordance with Minimum Standards for a Private Water Well in Nebraska.
Whenever the Utilities Superintendent shall find a well that has been
improperly abandoned and discontinued for use, it shall be his or her duty to
notify or inform the owner of the property on which such well is located, in
writing, that such well must be abandoned in accordance with this section
within three days of the time of service of such notice. Upon failure of the
owner of the property upon which said well is located, to comply with such
order the Utilities Superintendent shall fill up, destroy or abandon such well,
assessing the cost and expenses to the property and the property owner upon
which such well is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-137)
§ 53.03 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   Cross-connections shall only be allowed from a private well to or from the
municipal water system in accordance with the following.
   (A)   Any cross-connection between private wells and the municipal water
supply without the presence of a recognized, approved and properly installed
backflow prevention device will be immediately disconnected and permanently
removed. Failure or refusal to remove or protect the cross-connection will
result in immediate termination of the public water supply with no additional
notice. The owner will be liable for any damage caused or expenses incurred by
the municipal water system in conjunction with the cross-connection.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the property to give
the Utilities Superintendent access to the property at reasonable times for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the requirements herein. If the Utilities
Superintendent is denied entry to ensure compliance, a judicial order for entry
into and onto the property shall be obtained. The owner or occupant’s water
shall immediately be disconnected and remain disconnected until such time as
the Utilities Superintendent or other authorized individual confirms conformity
with the requirements established in this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-138) (Ord. 632, passed 2-13-2019)
§ 53.04 DISCONTINUANCE BY GOVERNING BODY.
   The municipality shall have the power and authority to refuse to issue well
drilling permits if it appears that the plan of drilling and construction is
not sound, or the proposed driller does not have proper equipment, or if it
appears that such well may endanger, impair or in any other way interfere with
the public water system of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-139)
§ 53.05 CANCELLATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The governing body may order the discontinuance of the use of a
private well or wells where it has reason to believe that the public health is
endangered, and for that purpose may revoke and cancel any well permit or
renewal of such permit after notice and hearing.
   (B)   Such permit or renewal thereof may be revoked and cancelled by the
municipality upon violation of any of the terms and provisions of this chapter
by the permittee or his or her successor in the interest to the property upon
which such well is located or its occupants, in and to any private well after
notice and hearing.
(Prior Code, § 3-140)
§ 53.06 CONSENT BY PERMITTEE.
   The granting of a well permit or the renewal of a permittee or its
successors in interest shall constitute consent and shall grant consent by the
permittee or any tenant thereon to and for the Utilities Superintendent of the
municipality or his or her agents or employees to enter upon the premises upon
which the well is located in order to take any action required by the Utilities
Superintendent by this chapter and to determine whether or not there is any
violation of the ordinance by said well or the use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-141)
WELL-HEAD PROTECTION PROGRAM
§ 53.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Well-Head Protection Program is to ensure that the public
water supply of the municipality meets the requirements of the State Department
of Health at all times. The Well-Head Protection Program is designed to prevent
microbiological contamination of the wells supplying water to the municipal
water system. The Utilities Superintendent shall be responsible for the
development and implementation of the Well-Head Protection Program.
(Prior Code, § 4-501) (Ord. 574, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 53.21 IDENTIFICATION OF EXISTING WELLS.
   It shall be the duty of all persons who are the owners of existing potable
and non-potable wells located within the municipality, or within one mile of
the corporate limits of the municipality, or within one-fourth mile of a
municipal well to register said potable and non-potable wells with the Village
Clerk-Treasurer. Such registration shall include the location of the well, the
date such well was placed into service (if known), the diameter and depth of
the well, whether the well is potable or non-potable, the current use of the
well and water supplied therefrom and any other information requested or
required by the Utilities Superintendent. In the event that any landowner fails
or refuses to register such wells, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her
duly authorized agent shall have the authority to enter upon the landowner’s
property for the purpose of acquiring well registration information.
(Prior Code, § 4-502) (Ord. 574, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 53.22 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No well shall be drilled by private individuals or commercial drillers
within the municipality, or within one mile of the corporate limits of the
municipality, or within one-fourth mile of any municipal well, without first
obtaining a permit from the governing body. Applications for such permits shall
be available at the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer during regular
business hours. Permits are to be issued by the governing body only after a
determination by the Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized
agent that there is no threat of contamination to any municipal well or to the
underground water supply. The governing body shall deny the application, and no
permit shall be issued if the governing body determines that such action is
necessary to protect the municipal wells from possible contamination. All new
wells within the municipality, or within one mile of the corporate limits of
the municipality, or within one-fourth mile of any municipal well, must meet or
exceed the requirements of Title 179 of the regulations governing public water
supply systems promulgated by the State Department of Health, Division of
Drinking Water and Environmental Sanitation.
(Prior Code, § 4-503) (Ord. 574, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 53.23 WELLS PROHIBITED.
   No new wells shall be allowed to be drilled by any person within a 1,000-
foot radius around all existing municipal wells serving the municipal water
supply and any new municipal wells that may be drilled in the future, pursuant
to Title 179, NAC 7, which are the regulations of the State Department of
Health, Division of Drinking Water and Environmental Sanitation governing
public water supply systems; provided, that a water well constructed for a
closed loop heat pump system shall be allowed within 1,000 feet if the
following specific conditions are met:
   (A)   There is an engineering study done to demonstrate that the proposed
closed loop heat pump system wells installation will not constitute a pollution
hazard to the safety of the drinking water supply;
   (B)   The village has reviewed the engineering report and the proposed
location and installation of the closed loop heat pump system wells meet the
village’s requirements;
   (C)   The village submits the engineering report to the Department of Health
with a request for the Department of Health to not consider the closed loop
heat pump system well as an encroachment on the municipal water supply system;
and
   (D)   The proposed loop heat pump system meets with the approval of the
Department of Health and complies with the requirement of Title 178, Ch. 12
NAC.
(Prior Code, § 4-504) (Ord. 574, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 53.24 WELLS REMOVED FROM SERVICE.
   The governing body may, in its discretion, require any potable or non-
potable wells located within the municipality, or within one mile of the
corporate limits of the municipality, or within one-fourth mile of any
municipal well to be immediately removed from service and an approved plug be
put in the casing if the governing body determines that such well is an
immediate threat of contamination to the municipal water supply or to
groundwater.
(Prior Code, § 4-505) (Ord. 574, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 53.25 PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      WELL-HEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and sub-surface area surrounding a
water well or well-field, supplying a public water system, through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach such water well or
well field. The designated WELL-HEAD PROTECTION AREA will be recommended to the
governing body by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The village has designated a well-head protection area for the purpose
of protecting the municipal water supply system. The boundaries of the well-
head protection system are designated in the village’s well-head protection
area map drawn by the groundwater section of the State Department of
Environmental Quality. A current map shall be on file in the office of the
Village Clerk-Treasurer and the office of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 4-506) (Ord. 574, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 53.26 MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION.
   (A)   The minimum distance separating the municipal water supply wells of
the village from potential sources of contamination shall be as follows:
Category Distance in Feet
Category                                                  Distance in Feet
Absorption or disposal field for waste                    500
All water wells, including, but not limited to, domestic
supply wells, irrigation wells, stock wells and heat pump 1,000
wells
Cesspool                                                  500
Chemical storage (dry or liquid)                          500
Corral or animal enclosure                                500
Dump                                                      1,000
Feed lot, feed lot runoff or animal waste disposal        1,000
Land application of solid or liquid waste                 500
Petroleum storage                                         500
Pit toilet                                                500
Sanitary landfill                                         1,000
Sanitary or industrial discharges                         500
Sanitary sewer connection                                 100
Sanitary sewer line                                       50
Sanitary sewer line (permanently watertight)              10
Sanitary sewer manhole                                    100
Septic tank                                               500
Sewage lagoon                                             1,000
Sewage treatment plant                                    500
Sewage wet well                                           500
 
   (B)   If the village or the State Department of Health determine that
surface runoff or underground movement from potential sources of contamination
may adversely affect the quality of water in a municipal water supply well, the
distance separating these potential sources of contamination and the municipal
water supply well shall be greater than the minimum distance listed in the
above schedule, as determined by the village or the State Department of Health.
   (C)   Any person who intends to construct a potential source of
contamination or enlarge an existing potential source of contamination shall
file a written application for a permit with the Board of Trustees. The Board
of Trustees may approve a permit which conforms to the distance requirements of
this section; provided, however, if the Board of Trustees determines that the
proposed construction poses a risk of contaminating a municipal water supply
well, the Board of Trustees shall deny the permit. Appeal of the decision of
the Board of Trustees shall be to the County District Court within 30 days of
the decision of the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may consider an application for potential
sources of contamination which are proposed to be in closer proximity than the
minimum distances listed above. The Board of Trustees may only approve such
potential sources of contamination when there is no other reasonable location
for the potential sources of contamination and when the Board of Trustees and
the State Department of Health determine that such location will not constitute
a pollution hazard to a municipal water supply well. The village shall be
required to retain a professional engineer to provide a written report
demonstrating that such location will not constitute a pollution hazard to a
municipal water supply well. The cost of the professional engineer, including
fees and estimated costs and expenses, shall be paid by the applicant prior to
the commencement of the engineering report. The applicant may appeal the
decision of the Board of Trustees by filing a notice of appeal with the County
District Court within 30 days of the decision of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Fees for contamination source permits shall be established by
resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all land within the
corporate limits of the village, and that portion of the unincorporated area
within one mile of the corporate limits of the village, and within one-fourth
mile of any municipal well of the village.
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall supersede any land use regulation
which allows the installation of a potential source of contamination. Nothing
in this section shall be construed to allow the installation of any potential
source of contamination which is restricted or prohibited by any federal, state
or local law, statute, regulation or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-507) (Ord. 574, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 53.27 SOURCES OF CONTAMINATION.
   The Utilities Superintendent or duly authorized agent shall use every means
available to identify all potential sources of chemical or microbiological
contamination within the well-head protection area. He or she shall have the
authority to enter upon the property of any resident of the municipality, and
upon any property located within the municipality, or within one mile of the
corporate limits of the municipality, or within one-fourth mile of any
municipal well of the municipality for the purpose of inspection to identify
potential sources of chemical or microbiological contamination of the municipal
water supply. All persons shall cooperate with the Utilities Superintendent or
his or her duly authorized agent by providing answers to questionnaires or
surveys. Failure by any person to respond to a survey or questionnaire from the
Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agent attempting to
identify sources of chemical or microbiological contamination shall be deemed
to be a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-508) (Ord. 574, passed 7-24-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.28 MANAGEMENT AND PREVENTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall manage all identified potential sources
of chemical and microbiological contamination within the protection area to
prevent contamination of the municipal wells and shall have the authority to
request assistance from the State Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 4-509) (Ord. 574, passed 7-24-2013)
CHAPTER 54: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Definitions
   
54.002   Operation and funding
   
54.003   Application for permit
   
54.004   Sewer contract
   
54.005   Mandatory hook-up
   
54.006   Direct connections
   
54.007   Service contracts
   
54.008   Classification
   
54.009   Manholes
   
54.010   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
   
54.011   Tampering with sewer facilities prohibited
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
54.025   When applicable
   
54.026   Permit required
   
54.027   System specifications
   
54.028   Maintenance
   
54.029   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
54.040   Permit required; application; fee
   
54.041   Expense
   
54.042   Single premises
   
54.043   Use of existing sewers
   
54.044   Construction standards
   
54.045   Unlawful connection
   
54.046   Inspections
   
54.047   Excavations
Sewer Use
   
54.060   Installation expense
   
54.061   Repairs and replacement
   
54.062   Rate setting
   
54.063   Sewer rental bills
Hazardous and Prohibited Discharges
   
54.075   Special equipment
   
54.076   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling water and process
water
   
54.077   Harmful and obstructive substances
   
54.078   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent
   
54.079   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use
   
54.080   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
54.081   Maintenance by owner
   
54.082   Control manholes/sampling stations
   
54.083   Special exceptions
Administration and Enforcement
   
54.095   Inspections
   
54.096   Lien
   
54.097   Municipal powers
   
54.098   Complaints
   
54.099   Compliance with chapter; inspections generally
 
   
54.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine in parts per million by weight
which must be added to sewage to produce a specified residual chlorine content
or to meet the requirements of some other objective in accordance with
procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, which is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwaters,
surface waters and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is “wastewater.”
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. The pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage
and Industrial Waste, published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, sub-surface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the municipality, or his or
her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment, in addition to the service charge, which is
levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the
concentration values established as representative of normal sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids and that
is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   UNPOLLUTED WATERS. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 54.002 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through the
Utilities Superintendent. The governing body shall have the authority to adopt
rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the Sewer
Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574 and 17-925.01
§ 54.003 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person who desires to connect to the municipal sewer system must make an
application to the Village Clerk-Treasurer. The applicant shall pay an account
deposit. All fees for the Municipal Sewer Department shall be established by
resolution by the governing body. The Department shall not supply sewer service
to any person outside the corporate limits without special permission from the
governing body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation
charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to residents.
(Neb. RS 17-574) (Prior Code, § 3-203)
§ 54.004 SEWER CONTRACT.
   The municipality, through its Municipal Sewer Department, shall furnish
sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The
municipality may also furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are
situated outside the corporate limits of the municipality as and when,
according to law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules,
regulations and sewer rental rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be
considered a part of every application hereafter made for sewer service and
shall be considered a part of the contract between every customer now or
hereafter served. Without further formality, the making of the application on
the part of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers
thereof shall constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality
to which said both parties are bound.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 54.005 MANDATORY HOOK-UP.
   (A)   Upon written notice by the Clerk-Treasurer, the property owner,
occupant or lessee of any premises that is within 100 feet of the village sewer
system shall, without delay, cause said building to be connected with the sewer
system and equipped with inside sewerage facilities. Every building hereafter
erected shall be connected with the sewer system at the time of its
construction.
   (B)   In the event that any property owner, occupant or lessee shall
neglect, fail or refuse within a period of 90 days after notice has been given
to him or her to do so by registered mail or by publication in a newspaper in
or of general circulation in the municipality to make such connection, the
governing body shall have the power to cause the same to be done, to assess the
cost thereof against the property and to collect the assessment thus made in
the manner provided for collection of other special taxes and assessments
within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-574 and 17-575
§ 54.006 DIRECT CONNECTIONS.
   Each and every building, except buildings customarily incidental to the
primary building and trailers must make a direct connection with the main sewer
line. Under no circumstances will two or more houses be allowed to make such
connections through one pipe.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
§ 54.007 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or she
shall at once inform the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
§ 54.008 CLASSIFICATION.
   The governing body may classify, for the purpose of rental fees, the
customers of the Municipal Sewer Department; provided, that such
classifications and reasonable and do not discriminate unlawfully against any
consumer or group of consumers.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01) (Prior Code, § 3-209)
§ 54.009 MANHOLES.
   Entrance into a manhole or opening for any purpose except by authorized
persons is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any receptacle connected with the sewer system any substance which
is not the usual and natural waste carried by the sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-214) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.010 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-240) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.011 TAMPERING WITH SEWER FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to maliciously, willfully or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the wastewater system.
Any person or persons who demolish a structure having sewer access lines must
provide a suitable cap to the sewer access line to prevent the introduction of
any materials into the sewer access line.
(Prior Code, § 3-247) Penalty, see §
54.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 54.025 WHEN APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
54.005, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
54.005, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in
compliance with this chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with clean bank run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
§ 54.026 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit application; fee. Before commencement of construction of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on
a form furnished by the municipality which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the municipality
at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-218)
   (B)   When effective; inspections. A permit for a private sewage disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-219)
§ 54.027 SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Public Health.
No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is less than
12,250 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-220)
§ 54.028 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-221)
§ 54.029 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the health officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-222)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 54.040 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Permit required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-223)
   (B)   Classes of permits.
      (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee for a residential or commercial building sewer permit
and for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the municipality
at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-224)
Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.041 EXPENSE.
   (A)   The customer, upon the approval of his or her application for sewer
service, shall pay to the Utilities Superintendent a tap fee as set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees for the expense of processing his or her
application and tapping the sewer main.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent, at his or her discretion, may direct the
customer to hire a licensed plumber to tap the main. The customer shall then be
required to pay the expense of procuring the materials required as well as the
services of a licensed plumber and shall pay all other costs of installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-225)
§ 54.042 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the real
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-226)
§ 54.043 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and test by the Superintendent to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-227)
§ 54.044 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M and the W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and
verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-228)
§ 54.045 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of runoff or groundwater to
a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-229) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.046 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-230)
§ 54.047 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-231)
SEWER USE
§ 54.060 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The customer, upon approval of his or her application for sewer service,
shall be responsible for all expenses incurred in the tapping of the sewer main
and running the service lateral. The sewer service installation shall be done
only be a licensed plumber. If the property has not been assessed in the past
for sewer installation, there shall be an additional charge per foot as a sewer
assessment. The charge is on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 3-208)
§ 54.061 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair and replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements, up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of such owner or
the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such connection
line. If, within 30 days of mailing such notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) (Prior Code, § 3-212)
§ 54.062 RATE SETTING.
   The governing body has the power and authority to fix the rates to be
charged for the usage of the municipal sewer line. The Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer shall bill the customers and collect all money received by the
municipality on the account of the Sewer Department. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
fully account for and pay to the Clerk-Treasurer all revenue collected, taking
as his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one with the Clerk-
Treasurer and keeping the other on file in the Sewer Department official
records.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 54.063 SEWER RENTAL BILLS.
   Sewer rental bills shall be due and payable monthly at the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall charge and collect from each
customer the sewer rental bill which shall include all other charges, properly
itemized, due the Sewer Department. Bills shall be due on the first day of each
month and shall be payable by the fifteenth day of each month. Bills not paid
by the fifteenth day of each month shall be deemed to be delinquent. Upon being
deemed to be delinquent as herein defined, the Clerk-Treasurer shall implement
procedural policies for utility disconnection. The Clerk-Treasurer may assess
an additional fee, set by ordinance by the governing body and on file at the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer, in the event that water service is shut off for
the nonpayment of any sewer rental bill to compensate the municipality for the
additional hook-up necessary to again provide water service to the delinquent
customer.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01, 18-503 and 70-1601 through 70-
1615
HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 54.075 SPECIAL EQUIPMENT.
   In the event a customer of the Municipal Sewer Department discharges an
unusually large amount of waste daily, or an unusually large amount of grease
or oil or waste with an unusually high biochemical oxygen demand, the governing
body may require said customer to install interceptors or other preliminary
treatment equipment to reduce the objectionable characteristics of the waste to
within such maximum limits as he or she shall prescribe subject to the review
of the governing body. All preliminary treatment facilities shall be purchased
and maintained continuously in satisfactory and efficient operation at the
customer’s expense. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit a special
agreement or arrangement between the governing body and an industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the municipality for treatment subject to additional rental fees or other
charges.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
§ 54.076 STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING WATER AND PROCESS
WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the municipality of such
costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the approval of
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-232)
§ 54.077 HARMFUL AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances of such size or in such quantities as
to be capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but
not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshing, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   An average daily flow greater than 2% of the average sewage flow
of the municipality; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide at his or her expense such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 3-233) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.078 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AS DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 Hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the foreperson in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment of reduction by the sewage treatment process employed or are amenable
to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharges to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 3-234) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.079 REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
54.076 and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
54.010.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-235)
§ 54.080 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-236)
§ 54.081 MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-237)
§ 54.082 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS.
   (A)   When required; installation and maintenance. When required by the
Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-238)
   (B)   Method. All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association and shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole
has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined for periodic
grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 3-239)
§ 54.083 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor,
by the industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-241)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 54.095 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her authorized agents shall have free
access at any reasonable time to all parts of each premises and building which
is connected with the sewer system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair
or violations of this chapter therein.
(Prior Code, § 3-215)
§ 54.096 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for sewer service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a
delinquent sewer rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real
estate for which the same was furnished. The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify in
writing or cause to be notified in writing all owners of premises or their
agents whenever their tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the
payment of sewer rent. It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer on June 1 of
each year to report to the governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for
sewer service, together with a description of the premises served. The report
shall be examined and, if approved by the governing body, shall be certified by
the Clerk-Treasurer to the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the
manner provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-925.01) (Prior Code, § 3-216)
§ 54.097 MUNICIPAL POWERS.
   The municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user
charges and sewer use regulations on all existing or future users of the system
whether located inside or outside the municipal limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-246)
§ 54.098 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Utilities Superintendent or Clerk-Treasurer may appear
before the governing body and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who
considers himself or herself aggrieved by being required to pay the charge
demanded for the use of the sewer, or for the resumption of the sewer service
after the same shall have been shut off, shall pay such charge under protest,
in which event the Clerk-Treasurer shall write on the receipt given such
customer the words “Paid Under Protest.” Such consumer may then present his or
her verified claim in the manner provided for presenting claims to the
governing body for a refund of the amount so paid under protest. Such claims
shall then be considered by the governing body in the same manner as other
claims against the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-248)
§ 54.099 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER; INSPECTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Inspections generally. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the municipality bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representatives
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-242)
   (B)   Injury liability. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the municipality shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the municipal employees, and the
municipality shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property
by municipal employees and against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required by the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-243)
   (C)   Inspections; easements. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the municipality bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the
municipality holds a duly negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-244)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except §
54.082(A) shall be served by the municipality with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 3-245)
CHAPTER 55: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
55.01   Ownership
   
55.02   Posting signs
   
55.03   Destruction of property
   
55.04   Rent or sublease
§ 55.01 OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   The village owns the village electrical system through the Utilities
Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the care, management and maintenance of the village electrical system, may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the corporate
limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as
the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody of the Village Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct management and
control of the village electrical system and shall faithfully carry out the
duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority to adopt rules
and regulations for the sale and efficient management of the electrical system
to the supervision and review of the governing body. The governing body shall
by resolution set the rates to be charged for services rendered and shall file
the same in the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection at
any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-901)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906 and 17-909
§ 55.02 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the village electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-902) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.03 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the village electrical system.
(Neb. RS 28-512) (Prior Code, § 3-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 55.04 RENT OR SUBLEASE.
   The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care,
management and maintenance of the village electrical system, may rent or
sublease the village electrical system to a public or private electrical
company authorized to do business in the state which supplies electrical power
to consumers.
(Prior Code, § 3-904)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.03   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.04   Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.05   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
70.06   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
70.07   Traffic officers
   
70.08   Vehicles on pedestrian overpass
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such fire department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as are
designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations or public buildings which occupy at least 300 feet
of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are disabled
and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Village Marshal or other chief law enforcement official,
any village police officer or any other person authorized to enforce village
ordinances. With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also
include any person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a Business District when the property on such highway for a
distance of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two
or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
Board of Trustees as a school crossing zone through the use of a sign or
traffic control device as specified by the Board in conformity with the Manual
but does not include any area of a freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at
the location of the first sign or traffic control device identifying the SCHOOL
CROSSING ZONE and continues until a sign or traffic control device indicates
that the SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE has ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. The part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed for
the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals and vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device not
inconsistent with the State Rules of the Road placed or erected by authority of
the Board of Trustees or any official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the State Rules of the
Road or of any law, ordinance, order, rule or regulation regulating traffic
which is not otherwise declared to be a misdemeanor or a felony or, in this
title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.03;
      (8)   Regulate operation of bicycles and require registration and
inspection of such, including requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the State Rules of
the Road;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate use of heavily traveled highways by any class
or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a Business
District or any designated highway except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
National System of Interstate and Defense Highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(22), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power producing engine into
a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss;
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations except as prohibited by state law
or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall not erect or maintain any traffic control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under divisions (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17) or
(A)(19) above shall be effective until traffic control devices giving notice of
such local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such
affected highway, or part thereof affected, as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.03 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the Board is responsible whenever any such highway by
reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic condition will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced. The Board shall erect or cause to be
erected and maintained signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or
resolution at each end of that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the
ordinance or resolution shall not be effective until such signs are erected and
maintained.
   (B)   The Board may also by ordinance or resolution prohibit the operation
of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to the weight
thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations shall be
designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.04 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Board of Trustees shall place and maintain such traffic control devices
upon highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to
carry out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn or guide traffic.
All such traffic control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform
with the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.05 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the State Rules of
the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject
to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in the
Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the State Rules of the Road and
this title, the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or suspected violator of the law or
when responding to but not when returning from a fire alarm, may:
      (1)   Stop, park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing direction of movement or
turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication
or a stop sign but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of Neb. RS 60-6,288
through 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.07 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The Board of Trustees or the village police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections. All traffic
officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control traffic at
the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct
the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of any such traffic
officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device that may
have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 VEHICLES ON PEDESTRIAN OVERPASS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or operate any mechanical, self-
propelled or manually propelled vehicle or device, including, but not limited
to, any motor vehicle, moped, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle, mini-bike,
bicycle, roller-skates or roller blades on the village’s pedestrian overpass;
provided, however, that this prohibition shall not extend to any device used
for transporting a physically handicapped or disabled person.
(Prior Code, § 5-1001) (Ord. 442, passed 5-14-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this traffic code, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-1101)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Turning generally; U-turns
   
71.02   Crosswalks
   
71.03   One-way traffic
   
71.04   Position of vehicle on highway; generally
Right-of-Way
   
71.15   Generally
   
71.16   Emergency vehicles
   
71.17   Stop and yield signs
Speed Limits
   
71.30   Basic rule
   
71.31   Maximum limits
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
71.45   Littering
   
71.46   Signs, markers, devices or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.47   Backing
   
71.48   Unnecessary stopping
   
71.49   Passing
   
71.50   Driving abreast
   
71.51   Following
   
71.52   Driving in sidewalk space
   
71.53   Vehicle muffler
   
71.54   Emergency regulations
   
71.55   Village law enforcement officer
   
71.56   Crowding; front seat
   
71.57   Loads
   
71.58   Engine braking prohibited
   
71.59   Unnecessary noise
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TURNING GENERALLY; U-TURNS.
   (A)   U-turns. No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite
direction, except at a street intersection. No vehicle shall be turned so as to
proceed in the opposite direction at any intersection where an automatic signal
is in operation or where a sign is posted indicating that U-turns are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-222)
   (B)   Turning generally.
      (1)   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall
approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right-hand
side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand curb as
possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall
approach such centerline of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as
possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable
to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purpose
of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean the meeting point of
the medial lines of the highway intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 5-226)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,159
§ 71.02 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may by resolution establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks or intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street and at such other
places as it may deem necessary.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-106)
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   The governing body may by resolution provide for one-way travel in any
street or alley located in the village and shall provide for appropriate signs
and markings when said streets have been so designated by resolution.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-105)
§ 71.04 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY; GENERALLY.
   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the driver
of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing
or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one-half of
the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,131) (Prior Code, § 5-223)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 71.15 GENERALLY.
   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection at approximately the
same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way
to the vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and there
is danger of a collision. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left
within an intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which
is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate
hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-of-way to a
pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where the movement of traffic is
being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices. Every
pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a pedestrian crossing,
crosswalk or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles upon the
street. The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street from a private road
or drive shall yield the right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the
latter are operated upon official business and the drivers thereof make proper
use of visual or audible signals.
(Neb. RS 60-6,146 through 60-6,154) (Prior Code, § 5-224)
§ 71.16 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, every vehicle within
one block of the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately stop except
at the time they are on or crossing a street intersection, and then stop. Every
vehicle along the route of such emergency vehicle shall immediately move to a
position as near the right-hand curb as possible and remain there until such
authorized emergency vehicle or vehicles have passed; provided, that said
vehicles are operated on official business and the drivers thereof make use of
proper visual or audible signals.
(Neb. RS 60-6,151) (Prior Code, § 5-225)
§ 71.17 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a stop is
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall
stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side
of the intersection or, if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. After having stopped,
such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or which is approaching so closely on such
highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or
into such intersection.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a speed
reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to stop,
shall stop at a clearly marked stop line or shall stop, if there is no such
line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if
no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After
slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute
an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.30 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.31 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.30, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-
6,305 and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless reduced pursuant
to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any Residential District;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any Business District;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the Board of Trustees pursuant
to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The Board may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways under
its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems necessary to
give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to divisions (A)
or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see § 71.99
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 71.45 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop or cause to be left upon any
municipal highway, street or alley except at places designated by the governing
body, any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be guilty of
littering.
(Neb. RS 39-311) (Prior Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.46 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic control devices, traffic surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter or
knock down any sign, traffic control device or traffic surveillance device.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly
authorized representative of the Department of Transportation, the county or
the village, to remove any sign, traffic control device or traffic surveillance
device placed along a highway for traffic control, warning or informational
purposes by official action of the department, county or village.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a sign or device
which has been removed in violation of this division (C).
   (D)   Any person violating divisions (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of
the sign, traffic control device or traffic surveillance device and the cost of
replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.47 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, that a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety, and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-205) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.48 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to stop any vehicle on any
public street or alley other than in permitted parking areas except when such a
stop is necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control
devices and regulations or to yield to the right-of-way to pedestrians or to
other vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164) (Prior Code, § 5-206) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.49 PASSING.
   (A)   Intersections. The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction while traversing a street
intersection if such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the
left of the center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)
   (B)   Hindrance. The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by
another vehicle shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until
completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,136 and 60-6,186
§ 71.50 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing or
traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, that motorcycles may be
driven not more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,139 and 60-6,308
§ 71.51 FOLLOWING.
   (A)   Following distance. The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another
vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the
speed of the vehicles and the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-210)
   (B)   Following fire apparatus. The driver of any vehicle shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet
or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 5-211)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS. 60-6,140 and 60-6,183
§ 71.52 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk space except
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,178) (Prior Code, § 5-212)
§ 71.53 VEHICLE MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within the municipality shall be provided with
a muffler in good working order to prevent excess or unusual noise or smoke. No
person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, intake muffler or any other
noise abatement device of a motor vehicle in a manner such that the noise
emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that emitted by the vehicle as
originally manufactured. It shall be unlawful to use a “muffler cut-out” on any
motor vehicle upon any streets; provided, that the provisions of this section
shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-213) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-371 and 60-6,286
§ 71.54 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   Village law enforcement officers are empowered to make and enforce temporary
traffic regulations to cover emergencies.
(Neb. RS 81-2005) (Prior Code, § 5-214)
§ 71.55 VILLAGE LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Village law enforcement officers are authorized, empowered and ordered to
exercise all powers and duties with relation to the management of street
traffic and to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate and when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude in the interest of public safety, health and
convenience the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular traffic of every
kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any vehicle shall stop
upon the signal of any police officer.
(Neb. RS 60-683) (Prior Code, § 5-215)
§ 71.56 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons exceeding three as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,179) (Prior Code, § 5-216) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.57 LOADS.
   (A)   Projecting. When any vehicle shall be loaded in such manner that any
portion of the loads extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or
the body of such vehicle, a red flag of not less than 12 inches both in length
and width shall be carried by day and red light after sunset at the extreme
rear end of such load.
(Prior Code, § 5-218)
   (B)   Spilling. All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand,
gravel, rock, asphalt, tar or any similar substance shall be so constructed as
to prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(Prior Code, § 5-219)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,243 and 60-6,304
§ 71.58 ENGINE BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use engine brakes, commonly known as
compression brakes, on trucks within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 5-221) (Ord. 429, passed 6-13-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.59 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   All streets, or portions thereof, lying within 300 feet of any hospital,
nursing home or school, and which have been declared to be “quiet zones” by the
governing body shall be respected as such by all drivers, and no driver of any
vehicle shall within such zones, make any unnecessary noise or sound the horn
or other warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency. It shall be
unlawful for any person in any part of said village to make, or cause to be
made, any unnecessary noise with any signal device, or to use the same except
as a road signal.
(Neb. RS 60-680) (Prior Code, § 5-227) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
72.02   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
72.03   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
72.04   Alleys
   
72.05   Truck parking, loading and unloading
   
72.06   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.07   Current registration
   
72.08   Time limits
   
72.09   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
72.10   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
72.11   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.12   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
   
72.13   Snow routes
   
72.14   Boats, trailers, recreational vehicles and the like
   
72.15   Weight limitations
Parking for Disabled Persons
   
72.30   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
72.31   Designation of off-street parking spaces
   
72.32   Permit issuance
   
72.33   Display of permit required
   
72.34   Removal of unauthorized vehicle
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees with respect to highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of the police power may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the Board regulates or prohibits stopping, standing or parking all
vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or a portion of
a highway, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle subject to such
regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than a
period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
Board of Trustees indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall
not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or
unloading in an alley shall be parked in such manner as will cause the least
obstruction possible to traffic in the alley.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   No person shall park a truck, the extreme length of which, including
bumpers, attached trailer or other attached load, exceeds 19 feet, or a truck
containing livestock, on a street which the Board has designated to be a “No
Truck Parking” area, or upon any asphalt street, unless loading or unloading in
any alley is impossible, and then said vehicles may stop, stand or unload only
after the operator of said truck has obtained written permission from the
Village Utilities Superintendent to do so.
   (B)   No person shall park a truck, the extreme length of which, including
bumpers, attached trailer or other attached load, exceed length 19 feet, or a
truck containing livestock, within a Residential District except for common
carriers making a pickup or delivery, or where the owner-operator has parked
immediately adjacent to and in front the residence of the truck owner-operator.
All semi-trailers stopped or parked in residential areas shall be attached to
the semi-tractor and shall be unloaded except for any common carrier making a
pickup or delivery.
   (C)   In no event shall parking in a residential area exceed a period of
time longer than 24 hours from the time of parking until the time of removal.
The village may by resolution designate any street or portion thereof where the
parking of trucks shall be permitted. Upon the passage of such resolution, the
village shall erect such signage as necessary to delineate the boundaries of
the truck parking area.
(Ord. 651, passed 9-14-2020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the village any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to
a breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
village. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act that is not registered in accordance with the Act.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 72.08 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, it is unlawful to
park or stand any vehicle on any highway in the village at any time within 12
hours after a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour
period if the snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, the village police or any
other designated person may order any highway or portion thereof vacated for
weather emergencies or highway maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally
notifying the owner or operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by
posting appropriate signs along the highway not less than four hours prior to
the time that the vacation order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a
vehicle on a highway or portion thereof vacated in accordance with this
division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the village police, to a suitable nearby
location without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may permit angle or center parking on any
roadway, except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any
federal-aid highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the
Director-State Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width
to permit angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first stopping the motor of
such vehicle, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition and
effectively setting the brakes thereon and, when standing upon any roadway,
turning the front wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the village and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
§ 72.13 SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may by resolution designate streets or portions
of streets within the village as emergency snow routes and shall place
appropriate signs, marks, signals or other traffic control devices indicating
the existence of said snow emergency routes.
   (B)   Whenever the Chairperson of the Village Board shall find, on the basis
of falling snow, sleet or freezing rain or on the basis of an official forecast
by the U.S. Weather Bureau of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather
conditions will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and
that parking on snow emergency routes be prohibited or restricted for snow
plowing and other purposes, the Chairperson of the Village Board may place into
effect a parking prohibition on all snow emergency routes by declaring that
emergency conditions exist; provided, however, that the provisions of this
division (B) shall take effect automatically when conditions set forth in
division (C) below take place. While the prohibition is in effect, no person
shall park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a snow
emergency route. Once in effect, the prohibition shall remain in effect until
terminated by declaration of the Chairperson. Nothing in this division (B)
shall be construed to permit parking at any time or place where it is forbidden
by any other provision of law. In any declaration of emergency conditions, the
Chairperson shall state the time that said emergency shall be in effect, and
from the time so designated all parking vehicles on snow emergency routes shall
be prohibited.
   (C)   Whenever there may have fallen four or more inches of snow on the
streets of the village during any 24-hour period, it shall be unlawful for any
automobiles to be parked on any snow emergency route within the village until
after such accumulated snow shall have been removed by snow removers provided
by the village. Any automobile left parked in violation of this division (C)
may be ordered to be removed by appropriate law enforcement officials, and such
illegal parking shall constitute cause for the appropriate law enforcement
officers to remove said automobile. If such unlawfully parked automobile is not
removed, and its presence causes any part of the streets of the village not be
plowed clear of snow, the person in violation of this division (C) shall be
civilly liable to the village for any added plowing expense necessarily
incurred as a result of such unlawful parking, unless the violator shall
promptly clean such unplowed area.
   (D)   Whenever a motor vehicle becomes stalled for any reason on any snow
emergency route on which there is a parking prohibition in effect, the person
operating such vehicle shall take immediate action to have the vehicle towed or
pushed off the roadway of such snow emergency route.
   (E)   The Chairperson shall cause each declaration of snow emergency made by
the Chairperson to be publicly announced by means of broadcast from a local
broadcasting station and to be further announced in a newspaper of general
circulation when feasible. The Chairperson shall make or cause to be made a
record of each time and date when any declaration is announced to the public by
issuing an executive order as soon after the declaration of an emergency is
feasible.
   (F)   Whenever the Chairperson shall find that some of the conditions which
gave rise to a parking prohibition no longer exists the Chairperson may declare
the prohibition terminated in whole or part effective immediately upon
announcement or at a later specified date.
   (G)   Any provision of this section, which becomes effective by declaration
of the Chairperson or upon the occurrence of a snow emergency, while
temporarily in effect, takes precedent over other conflicting provisions of law
normally in effect, except that it shall not take precedent over provisions of
law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency
vehicles or emergency traffic directions by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-230) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 BOATS, TRAILERS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   All boats, trailers and motorized non-seasonal or recreational vehicles, and
motor homes, must be removed from the village streets between November 1 and
March 1 of each year, except for the use of loading or unloading during normal
business. Any vehicle, trailer or motor home in use must be moved from the
village streets in the event of a snow emergency to allow for the proper and
adequate plowing of the village streets.
(Prior Code, § 5-231) (Ord. 627, passed 10-10-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle and trailer over 12,000 pounds
gross weight on any asphalt surfaced street in the municipality; provided, that
any vehicle may stop or stand to load or unload cargo for a period of time
necessary to complete the loading or unloading.
(Prior Code, § 5-324) (Ord. 459, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 72.30 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The governing body may by resolution designate parking spaces for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113 et seq.;
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled person as certified by the
governing body, whose vehicles display the identification specified in this
subchapter; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the governing body,
which display such identification.
   (B)   (1)   All such permits shall be displayed in the operator’s area in a
conspicuous location upon the vehicle’s dashboard or its equivalent so as to be
clearly visible through the front windshield.
      (2)   Whenever the governing body so designates a parking space or
parking spaces, it shall be indicated by a sign which is in conformance with
the nineteenth edition and all subsequent editions of the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways issued by the Federal Highway
Administration.
      (3)   In addition to such sign, the space may also be indicated by blue
paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to the
space.
(Prior Code, § 5-308)
§ 72.31 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The governing body and any person in lawful possession of any off-
street parking facility may designate stalls or spaces in such facility for the
exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicle displays the
distinguishing license plates issued pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113 et seq.;
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons as certified by the governing body; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the governing body,
which display such identification.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting immediately adjacent to and
visible from each stall or space a sign which is in conformance with the
nineteenth edition and all subsequent editions of the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices for Streets and Highways issued by the Federal Highway
Administration.
(Prior Code, § 5-309)
§ 72.32 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide applications on forms provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles to handicapped or disabled or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons or their parent, legal guardian or foster
parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person driving a
motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in those
spaces provided for by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-310)
§ 72.33 DISPLAY OF PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a handicapped parking zone
without displaying an authorized handicapped parking permit.
(Neb. RS 17-567) (Prior Code, § 5-320) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.34 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the Police or Sheriff’s Department and the
municipality, providing on-street parking or owning, operating or providing an
off-street parking facility, may cause the removal from a stall or space
designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons of any vehicles not displaying proper
identification or the distinguishing license plates, specified in this
subchapter, if there is posted immediately adjacent to and visible from such
stall or space, a sign which clearly and conspicuously states the area so
designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
owner or person in lawful possession of such facility shall inform the
municipality of a violation of this subchapter prior to taking any action
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 18-1736) (Prior Code, § 5-311) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Anyone parking in any on-street parking space in violation of §
72.34, which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of such persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking
space in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the
proper identification or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for
whom the license plate or permit is issued is not being transported shall be
guilty of a traffic violation infraction as defined in Neb. RS 60-672 and shall
be subject to the penalties and procedures set forth in Neb. RS 60-689.
(Prior Code, § 5-311)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.001   Operation
   
73.002   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
73.003   Applicability
Motorcycles
   
73.015   Definitions
   
73.016   Lights
   
73.017   Protective helmets required
   
73.018   State Rules of the Road; applicability
Minibikes
   
73.030   Definition
   
73.031   Unlawful operation
   
73.032   Emergencies and parades
   
73.033   Public lands
   
73.034   Traffic laws inapplicable
Snowmobiles
   
73.045   Equipment
   
73.046   Unlawful acts
   
73.047   Public lands
   
73.048   Regulations
   
73.049   Emergency operation
Mopeds
   
73.060   Definition
   
73.061   Operator’s license required
   
73.062   State Rules of the Road; applicability
   
73.063   Operation
   
73.064   Prohibited acts
   
73.065   Protective helmets required
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
73.080   Definitions
   
73.081   Registration; modified or retrofitted vehicles
   
73.082   Operation
   
73.083   Insurance requirement
   
73.084   Village permit requirements
   
73.085   Headlights
   
73.086   Equipment requirements
   
73.087   Prohibited acts
   
73.088   Competition
   
73.089   Accident report
   
73.090   Enforcement
Golf Car Vehicles
   
73.105   Definition
   
73.106   Operation
   
73.107   Insurance requirement
   
73.108   Village permit requirements
   
73.109   Accident report
   
73.110   Enforcement
 
   
73.999   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.001 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of this municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any
position in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycles or roller blades shall be propelled faster than is
reasonable and proper but every bicycle or roller blades shall be operated with
reasonable regard to the safety of the operator and any other persons upon the
streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons propelling bicycles or roller blades shall observe all traffic
signs and stop at all stop signs.
   (D)   No persons shall propel bicycles or roller blades on the sidewalks of
the Commercial District.
   (E)   No bicycles shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise without a
headlight visible under normal atmospheric conditions from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet indicating the approach or presence of the bicycle,
firmly attached to such bicycle and properly lighted or without a yellow or red
light reflector attached to and visible 500 feet from the rear thereof. The
headlight shall give a clear, white light.
   (F)   No person shall propel a bicycle or roller blades upon any street or
other public highway abreast of more than one other person propelling a bicycle
or roller blades.
   (G)   Any bicycle used on a highway shall be equipped with a brake or brakes
which will enable the operator to stop the bicycle within 25 feet of the point
of braking when moving at a speed of ten mph on dry, level, clean pavement.
   (H)   Every person propelling a bicycle or roller blades upon any street or
other public highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the
right-hand side of the street or highway, pass to the left when passing
overtaken vehicles and individuals that are slower moving and shall pass
vehicles to the right when meeting.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-138, 60-314, 60-315, 60-317 and 60-611
§ 73.002 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person propelling a bicycle or roller skates shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling
upon any bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach himself or herself, or
his or her bicycle or roller skates, to such vehicle so driven and operated by
him or her.
(Neb. RS 60-6,316) (Prior Code, § 5-402) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a highway shall have all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle under the State Rules of the Road, except for special bicycle
regulations in the Rules, except for those provisions of the Rules which by
their nature can have no application and except that bicycles may be operated
on paved shoulders of highways included in the state highway system other than
state segments of the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways as
provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
   (B)   Regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a bicycle is
operated upon any highway or path set aside by the Department of Roads or a
local authority for the exclusive use of bicycles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,314) (Prior Code, § 5-403)
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter, with a
motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower as measured at the
drive shaft.
(Prior Code, § 5-501)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-639 and 60-640
§ 73.016 LIGHTS.
   No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways from
one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless the same
shall be equipped with at least one and not more than two headlights plainly
visible from the front and with a taillight exhibiting a red light visible from
a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such motorcycle; provided, that
said lamps shall comply with the requirements and limitations of state
statutes.
(Neb. RS 60-6,219) (Prior Code, § 5-502) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.017 PROTECTIVE HELMETS REQUIRED.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle on any highway
in the state unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and
design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such
helmet is secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the
vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce
injuries to the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to
protect the use by remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting
penetration and spreading the force of impact. Each such helmet shall consist
of lining, padding and chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards
established in the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 (49 C.F.R. § 571.218) for motorcycle helmets.
(Prior Code, § 5-503) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282
§ 73.018 STATE RULES OF THE ROAD; APPLICABILITY.
   Any person who operates a motorcycle shall have all of the rights and shall
be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle
under the State Rules of the Road, except for special motorcycle regulations in
the Rules except for those provisions of the Rules which by their nature can
have no application.
(Neb. RS 60-6,306) (Prior Code, § 5-504)
MINIBIKES
§ 73.030 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINIBIKE. A two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total wheel and tire
diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine rated capacity of less than 45
cubic centimeters displacement or any other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily
designed by the manufacturer for off-road use only.
(Prior Code, § 5-601)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-636, 60-6,352 and 60-6,353
§ 73.031 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-601) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-636, 60-6,352 and 60-6,353
§ 73.032 EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
   Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter during any
public emergency or while being used in parades by regularly organized units of
any recognized charitable, social, educational or community service
organization.
(Neb. RS 60-6,348) (Prior Code, § 5-602)
§ 73.033 PUBLIC LANDS.
   Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the
municipality except where allowed by resolution of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 60-678) (Prior Code, § 5-603)
§ 73.034 TRAFFIC LAWS INAPPLICABLE.
   The provisions of Neb. RS Ch. 60, art. 1, 3, 4 and 5 shall not be applicable
to the owners and operators of any minibike.
(Neb. RS 60-6,347) (Prior Code, § 5-604)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.045 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every snowmobile operated within the municipality shall be registered
with the state as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a
public street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one headlamp, one
taillamp, reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on
each side forward of the handlebars and with brakes as prescribed by the
Director of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply
to snowmobiles except those relating to required equipment and those which by
their nature have no application.
(Prior Code, § 5-701) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-335 and 60-663
§ 73.046 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile either
owned or operated by him or her to be operated:
   (A)   Within the congested area of the municipality unless weather
conditions are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe
vehicular travel or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger person
or property;
   (D)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when such would be required
by conditions;
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock; and
   (F)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of the
owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
(Prior Code, § 5-702) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-337 and 60-6,344
§ 73.047 PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by
the municipality except where allowed by resolution of the governing body.
(Neb. RS 60-6,338) (Prior Code, § 5-703) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.048 REGULATIONS.
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street at any hour of the day
if:
   (A)   Crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the main
traveled way of the street;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
   (D)   If said crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, under the circumstances set forth in §
73.049 or during conditions of reduced visibility, said snowmobile shall be
equipped with at least one taillamp and both front and rear lights shall be on.
(Prior Code, § 5-704)
§ 73.049 EMERGENCY OPERATION.
   A snowmobile may be operated upon a public street or highway other than is
provided herein in an emergency during a period of time when and at locations
where snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile impractical.
(Prior Code, § 5-705)
MOPEDS
§ 73.060 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOPED. A bicycle with fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power,
an automatic transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50
cubic centimeters which produces not more than two brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the bicycle at a minimum design speed of not more than 30
mph on level ground. MOPEDS, their owners and their operators shall be subject
to Neb. RS Ch. 60, art. 6, and amendments thereto.
(Neb. RS 60-637) (Prior Code, § 5-801)
§ 73.061 OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys or public highways
of the municipality unless such person has a valid Class O operator’s license
or a valid school or learner’s permit.
(Neb. RS 60-6,310) (Prior Code, § 5-802) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.062 STATE RULES OF THE ROAD; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under the State Rules of the Road except for special moped regulations
in the Rules and except for those provisions of the Rules by their nature can
have no application.
   (B)   Regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a moped shall be
operated upon any street, alley or public highway within the municipality or
upon any path set aside by the Department of Roads or local authority for the
use of mopeds.
(Neb. RS 60-6,311) (Prior Code, § 5-803)
§ 73.063 OPERATION.
   (A)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent
regular seat attached thereto and shall not carry any other person nor shall
any other person ride on a moped unless such moped is designed by the
manufacturer to carry more than one person.
   (B)   A person shall ride upon a moped only while sitting astride the seat,
facing forward. Further, no person shall operate a moped while carrying any
package, bundle or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both
hands on the handlebars.
   (C)   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride in a
position that interferes with the operation or control of the moped or the view
of the operator.
   (D)   Any person who carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests
for such passenger.
   (E)   No person who rides upon a moped shall attach himself or herself or
the moped to any vehicle on a roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,312) (Prior Code, § 5-804) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.064 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any street
or highway with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less, and no vehicle
shall be operated in such a manner as to deprive any moped of the full use of
such land, except that mopeds and motorcycles may be operated two abreast in a
single lane.
   (B)   No person shall operate a moped between lanes of traffic or between
adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
   (C)   Mopeds shall not be operated more than two abreast in a single lane.
   (D)   Any person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized speed
limit of more than 45 mph shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway
as practicable and shall not ride more than single file.
   (E)   No person who rides on a moped shall attach himself, herself or the
moped to any other vehicle on the roadway.
   (F)   Mopeds shall not be operated on sidewalks.
   (G)   Notwithstanding the maximum speed limits in excess of 25 mph
established in Neb. RS 60-6,186, no person shall operate any moped at a speed
in excess of 30 mph.
(Neb. RS 60-6,313) (Prior Code, § 5-805) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.065 PROTECTIVE HELMETS REQUIRED.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a moped on any highway in
the state unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and
design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such
helmet is secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the
vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce
injuries to the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to
protect the use by remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting
penetration and spreading the force of impact. Each such helmet shall consist
of lining, padding and chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards
established in the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218 (49 C.F.R. § 571.218) for moped helmets.
(Prior Code, § 5-806) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-road vehicle which is 50 inches or
less in width, has a dry weight of 600 pounds or less, travels on three or more
low-pressure tires, is designed for operator use only, with no passengers, has
a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and has handlebars or
other steering assemble for steering control.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-road vehicle which is not less than
48 inches, nor more than 74 inches in width, is not more than 180 inches,
including the bumper, in length, has a dry weight of not less than 900, nor
more than 2,000 pounds, travels on four or more non-highway tires and is
equipped with a steering wheel and bench- or bucket-type seating designed for
at least two people to sit side-by-side. UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include
all-terrain vehicles, golf car vehicles or low-speed vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-901) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-135.01 and 60-6,355
§ 73.081 REGISTRATION; MODIFIED OR RETROFITTED VEHICLES.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles which have been modified or
retrofitted with after-market parts to include additional equipment not
required by Neb. RS 60-6,357 and 60-6,358 shall not be registered under the
Motor Vehicle Registration Act, being Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., nor shall such
modified or retrofitted vehicles be eligible for registration in any other
category of vehicle defined in the Act (Neb. RS Ch. 60, art. 3).
(Prior Code, § 5-901) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-135.01 and 60-6,355
§ 73.082 OPERATION.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle may be operated on
streets and highways, other than a controlled-access highway with more than two
marked traffic lanes, within the corporate limits of the village, only if the
operator and vehicle comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
on any controlled-access highway with more than two marked lanes, and the
crossing of any controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic
lanes shall not be permitted. The crossing of any one of these streets or
avenues shall be permitted by an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or avenue and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or avenue;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   The crossing is made only at an intersection of such street or
avenue with another street or avenue; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle may be operated as
authorized in division (A) above when such operation occurs only between the
hours of sunrise and sunset.
   (D)   It is unlawful to operate a three-wheeled all-terrain vehicle or
utility-type vehicle within the village limits.
   (E)   When operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle, the
headlight and taillight of the vehicles shall be on. Whenever an all-terrain
vehicle or utility-type vehicle is operated within the village, all cargo must
be securely attached to the vehicle in such a manner that the cargo remains
secured without any assistance of the operator.
   (F)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall not be operated
at a speed in excess of 30 mph and shall observe posted speed limits if lower
than 30 mph.
   (G)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
shall have obtained a valid Class O Operator’s License or a farm permit from
the State Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Operator’s
License Act, being Neb. RS 60-401 et seq.
   (H)   No passenger is allowed on any all-terrain vehicle. Only one passenger
is allowed in a utility-type vehicle unless the utility-type vehicle is
equipped with rear seats.
   (I)   No driver of a utility-type vehicle that is manufactured with occupant
protection systems shall operate a utility-type vehicle upon any village street
unless the driver and each occupant in the utility-type vehicle are wearing
occupant protection systems and all occupant protection systems worn are
properly adjusted and fastened.
   (J)   All terrain-vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated on
public streets, roads and highways in parades which have been authorized by the
state, or any department, board, commission or political subdivision of the
state.
   (K)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated on
highways outside the corporate limits of any municipality by electric utility
personnel within the course of their employment in accordance with the
operation requirements of Neb. RS 60-6,356, except that the operation of the
vehicle pursuant to this division (K) need not be limited to the hours between
sunrise and sunset.
(Prior Code, § 5-902) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-501 et seq., 60-6,270 and 60-6,356
§ 73.083 INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
shall have liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle or utility-
type vehicle while operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
within the village. The liability insurance coverage required herein shall be
provided by policies of liability insurance consistent with the requirements of
the Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act, Neb. RS 60-501 et seq. to the same
extent as if an all-terrain vehicle and a utility-type vehicle were defined as
a motor vehicle therein.
   (B)   The person operating all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall
provide proof of such insurance coverage to any peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-903) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014)
§ 73.084 VILLAGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any all-terrain vehicle
or utility-type vehicle within the village until the owner has demonstrated
proof of insurance to the village and obtained an insurance decal for the
current year. The village will issue a decal for the current year that must be
affixed to the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle in a conspicuous
place.
   (B)   The village will charge a fee set by resolution of the governing body
for the issuance of the permit to operate an all-terrain vehicle and utility-
type vehicle in the village. A copy of said resolution shall be kept on file at
the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer and shall be available for inspection
at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 5-904) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.085 HEADLIGHTS.
   In addition to the requirements set forth in §
73.081, every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall display a
lighted headlight and taillight during the period of time from one-half hour
after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and at any times when visibility
is reduced due to insufficient light or unfavorable atmospheric conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-905) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,357
§ 73.086 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle shall be equipped
with the following:
      (1)   A bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five feet above
the ground attached to the rear of such vehicle. Such flag shall be triangular
in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be Day-Glo in
color;
      (2)   A brake system maintained in good operating condition, including
functioning brake light(s);
      (3)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
      (4)   A United States Forest Service Qualified Spark Arrester.
   (B)   Any owner of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle who wishes
to use a trailer shall ensure that the trailer has functioning taillights and
brake lights and that the trailer is connected by a ball mount or pin type
hitch. Whenever a trailer is being used to haul cargo, all cargo must be
securely attached to the trailer in such a manner that the cargo remains
secured without any assistance of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 5-906) (Ord. 551, passed 5-25-2011; Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014)
Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,356 and 60-6,358
§ 73.087 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle with a cutout, bypass or similar device;
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with the
exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate and all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with the spark
arrestor removed or modified except for use in closed course competitions.
(Prior Code, § 5-907) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,359
§ 73.088 COMPETITION.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles participating in competitive
events may be exempted from the requirements of this subchapter and Neb. RS 60-
6,357 through 60-6,359 at the discretion of the Director of Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-908) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,360
§ 73.089 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Prior Code, § 5-909) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,361
§ 73.090 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision, including
conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-911) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-678
GOLF CAR VEHICLES
§ 73.105 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CAR VEHICLE. A vehicle that has at least four wheels, has a maximum
level ground speed of less than 20 mph, has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200
pounds, has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds, has a maximum
passenger capacity of not more than four persons and is designed and
manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting and recreational
purposes.
(Ord. 636, passed 5-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-116.01
§ 73.106 OPERATION.
   (A)   A golf car vehicle may be operated on streets and highways, other than
a controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, within the
corporate limits of the village, only if the operator and vehicle comply with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   A golf car vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled-access
highway with more than two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any
controlled-access highway with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be
permitted. The crossing of any one of these streets or avenues shall be
permitted by a golf car vehicle if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or avenue and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the street or avenue;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard; and
      (4)   The crossing is made only at an intersection of such street or
avenue with another street or avenue.
   (C)   A golf car vehicle may be operated as authorized in division (A) above
when such operation occurs only between the hours of sunrise and sunset.
   (D)   A golf car vehicle may be operated only on streets with a posted speed
limit of 35 mph or less.
   (E)   When operating a golf car vehicle as authorized in division (A) above,
the operator shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
   (F)   Any person operating golf car vehicle shall have obtained a valid
Class O operator’s license or a farm permit from the State Department of Motor
Vehicles pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, being Neb. RS
60-401 et seq.
(Ord. 636, passed 5-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,381
§ 73.107 INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person operating a golf car vehicle shall have liability insurance
coverage for the golf car vehicle while operating the golf car vehicle within
the village.
   (B)   The person operating the golf car vehicle shall provide proof of such
insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five days
after such a request.
   (C)   The liability insurance coverage shall be subject to limits, exclusive
of interest and costs, as follows: $25,000 because of bodily injury to or death
of one person in any one accident and, subject to such limit for one person,
$50,000 because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one
accident and $25,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others
in any one accident.
(Ord. 636, passed 5-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,381
§ 73.108 VILLAGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any golf car vehicle within
the village until the owner has demonstrated proof of insurance to the village
and obtained an insurance decal for the current year. The village will issue a
decal for the current year that must be affixed to the golf car vehicle in a
conspicuous place. The village will charge a fee set by resolution of the
governing body for the issuance of the permit to operate a golf car vehicle in
the village. A copy of said resolution shall be kept on file at the office of
the Village Clerk-Treasurer and shall be available for inspection at any
reasonable hour.
(Ord. 636, passed 5-8-2019) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.109 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each golf car vehicle involved in the accident shall give notice of the
accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-699.
(Ord. 636, passed 5-8-2019)
§ 73.110 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state or of any political subdivision, including
conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission shall be charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 636, passed 5-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-678
§ 73.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §§
73.080 through
73.089 which is also a violation under Neb. RS Ch. 60 may be punished under the
penalty provision of such chapter.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
73.080 through
73.089 may be punished under the penalty provision established in §
70.99.
   (C)   Any violation of §§ 73.100 through
73.105 may be punished under the penalty provision established in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-910) (Ord. 592, passed 8-13-2014; Ord. 636, passed 5-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,362
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Street designations
      
IV.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limits.
 
Street           Location          Speed Limit When Applicable Ord. Date Passed
North County     From West County              When signs are
Road             Road to Pioneer   35 mph      posted          389  5-8-1996
                 Trace
North County     From West County              When signs are
Road             Road to Prairie   25 mph      posted          428  5-30-2001
                 Trace
                 From U.S. Highway             When signs are
Pioneer Trace    30 to North       35 mph      posted          389  5-8-1996
                 County Road
                 From 700 feet
                 south of South                When signs are
State Highway 25 Street to 700     45 mph      posted          445  6-11-2003
                 North of South
                 Street
                 From Pioneer                  When signs are
U.S. Highway 30  Trace Road to     40 mph      posted          446  7-9-2003
                 West County Road
                 From U.S. Highway             When signs are
West County Road 30 to North       35 mph      posted          389  5-8-1996
                 County Road
 
   (B)   Signs. The Utilities Superintendent shall be authorized and directed
to post signs which indicate the speed limit along sections of roadways
described herein.
(Ord. 389, passed 5-8-1996)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop signs shall be erected at locations as established by resolution
by the governing body as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Every person operating a vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with the ordinances prescribed heretofore, cause such
vehicle to come to a complete stop before entering or crossing any street,
highway or railroad crossing. The vehicle operator shall stop at a marked stop
line, or, if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk; but if
neither is indicated, then as near the right-of-way line of the intersecting
roadway as possible.
Street Location Ord./Res. Date Passed
Street            Location                             Ord./Res.    Date Passed
Cherrywood Drive  Prairie Trace                        607          12-9-2015
Cobbler Lane      North County Road                    607          12-9-2015
Darlin Street     Cherrywood Drive                     607          12-9-2015
Darlin Street     North County Road                    607          12-9-2015
East County Road  South Street                         Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
East County Road  Union Street                         Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
Elm Street        East side of Walnut Street,          251          1-9-1984
                  intersecting with Elm Street
Elm Street        Liberty Street                       607          12-9-2015
Elm Street        Pioneer Trace                        607          12-9-2015
Elm Street        Walnut Street                        607          12-9-2015
Emerson Street    West County Road                     607          12-9-2015
Highway 25        South Street                         Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
Linden Street     North side at its intersection with  251          1-9-1984
                  Fern Street
Linden Street     Pioneer Trace                        607          12-9-2015
Linden Street     Walnut Street                        607          12-9-2015
Locust Street     McKinley Street                      607          12-9-2015
Locust Street     Oak Street                           607          12-9-2015
Locust Street     Poplar Street                        607          12-9-2015
Locust Street     Walnut Street                        607          12-9-2015
Locust Street     West County Road                     411          5-26-1999
Locust Street     West County Road                     Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
Maple Street      Elm Street                           607          12-9-2015
Maple Street      Highway 30                           607          12-9-2015
Maple Street      Pine Street                          607          12-9-2015
Maple Street      Third Street                         607          12-9-2015
McKinley Street   Oak Street (4-way stop)              Res. 2006-08 8-9-2006
North County Road Darlin Street                        Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
North County Road Pioneer Trace                        607          12-9-2015
North County Road Poplar Street                        Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
North County Road Prairie Trace                        Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
North County Road Walnut Street                        Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
North County Road West County Road                     607          12-9-2015
Oak Street        East side at its intersection with   251          1-9-1984
                  Third Street
Oak Street        Highway 30                           607          12-9-2015
Oak Street        Highway 25                           607          12-9-2015
Oak Street        Locust Street                        607          12-9-2015
Oak Street        South Street                         607          12-9-2015
Oak Street        Third Street                         607          12-9-2015
Park Street       Highway 30                           607          12-9-2015
Park Street       Second Street                        607          12-9-2015
Park Road         West County Road                     607          12-9-2015
Paulman Blvd      Poplar Street                        Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
Pine Street       Pioneer Trace                        607          12-9-2015
Pioneer Trace     Highway 30                           607          12-9-2015
Pool Road         West County Road                     Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
Poplar Street     Highway 30                           607          12-9-2015
Poplar Street     No-Name Street                       607          12-9-2015
Poplar Street     North County Road                    607          12-9-2015
Poplar Street     Third Street                         607          12-9-2015
Poplar Street     Third Street                         411          5-26-1999
                  East and west sides of Walnut
Second Street     Street, intersecting with Second     251          1-9-1984
                  Street
Second Street     Spruce Street (4-way stop)           Res. 2006-06 5-24-2006
Second Street     West County Road                     Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
South Street      East County Road                     411          5-26-1999
South Street      Highway 25                           607          12-9-2015
South Street      Pioneer Trace                        607          12-9-2015
South Street      West County Road                     607          12-9-2015
Spruce Street     Highway 30                           607          12-9-2015
Spruce Street     Second Street (4-way stop)           607          12-9-2015
                  East and west sides of Walnut
Third Street      Street, intersecting with Third      251          1-9-1984
                  Street
Third Street      West County Road                     Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
                  Southeast corner of the intersection
U.S. Highway 30   of the ethanol access road,          Res. 2001-16 2-28-2001
                  northbound
Union Street      East County Road                     411          5-26-1999
Union Street      Oak Street                           Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
Union Street      Pioneer Trace                        607          12-9-2015
Victory Street    Highway 30                           607          12-9-2015
Victory Street    Pine Street, northbound              Res. 2000-01 2-23-2000
Victory Street    Pine Street                          607          12-9-2015
Walnut Street     First Street                         607          12-9-2015
Walnut Street     Highway 30                           607          12-9-2015
Walnut Street     North County Road                    607          12-9-2015
Walnut Street     Second Street                        607          12-9-2015
Walnut Street     Third Street                         607          12-9-2015
West County Road  Highway 30                           Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
West County Road  South Street                         Res. 2006-12 9-13-2006
 
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this schedule, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each
offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-228) (Ord. 251, passed 1-9-1984; Ord. 367, passed 8-9-1995;
Ord. 607, passed 12-9-2015)
SCHEDULE III. STREET DESIGNATIONS.
 
Street        Location                  Designation         Ord. Date Passed
Locust Street The Intersection of       Through or arterial 251  1-9-1984
              McKinley Street           street
Walnut Street Between Second Street and Through or arterial 251  1-9-1984
              Elm Street                street
 
(Prior Code, § 5-228)
SCHEDULE IV. SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   The village establishes the following as emergency snow routes.
Street Location Ord./Res. Date Passed
Street                     Location                 Ord./Res.       Date Passed
Elm Street                                         Res. 2019-03-02 3-27-2019
First Street               From Maple Street to Oak Res. 2001-09    1-24-2001
                           Street
First Street               From Oak Street to Maple Res. 2019-03-02 3-27-2019
                           Street
Locust Street              From West County Road to Res. 2019-03-02 3-27-2019
                           Walnut Street
Maple Street               From First Street to Elm Res. 2001-09    1-24-2001
                           Street
North Maple Street                                 Res. 2019-03-02 3-27-2019
Pioneer/Prairie Trace Road From South Street to     Res. 2019-03-02 3-27-2019
                           Highway 30
South Oak Street           To South Street          Res. 2019-03-02 3-27-2019
South Street               To East County Road      Res. 2019-03-02 3-27-2019
Walnut Street                                      Res. 2019-03-02 3-27-2019
 
   (B)   The Village Superintendent shall erect signs reflecting the same.
(Res. 2019-03-02, passed 3-27-2019)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Prohibited parking.
Street Location Side Prohibition Ord./Res. Date Passed
Street       Location       Side         Prohibition  Ord./Res.     Date Passed
                                         No person
                                         shall park a
             Ball Diamond                truck
-            and Swimming   -            exceeding 19 Res. 2019-01- 1-23-2019
             Pool public                 feet, or a   03
             parking lot                 truck
                                         containing
                                         livestock
                                         Restrictive
                                         parking,
                                         loading and
                                         unloading
                                         zone from 8:
First Street Lil’ Sailors North        00 a.m. to   Res. 2003-16  8-13-2003
             Preschool                   4:00 p.m. on
                                         Tuesdays and
                                         Thursdays,
                                         when school
                                         is in
                                         session
             From the
             corner of
             Spruce Street
First Street to Walnut      -            No truck     Res. 2021-06- 6-23-2021
             Street and                  parking      01
             from Walnut
             Street to
             Maple Street
             Between the
             southern
             right-of-way
             line of the
Highway 25   Union Pacific  -            No parking   233           8-19-1981
             Railroad
             Company and
             the southern
             corporate
             limits
             North edge of
             the highway
             and the south  Extending
Highway 30   curb line of   easterly and No parking   -             -
             the traffic    westerly
             islands within
             the Business
             District
             From the
             corner of
Walnut       Second Street, West         No parking   390           5-22-1996
Street       north for a
             distance of 80
             feet
             North of the
Walnut       intersection   East         No parking   Res. 2001-18  6-13-2001
Street       with Elm
             Street
 
   (B)   Designation. The Utilities Superintendent shall post the necessary
signs or cause the curb to be painted, or both, to designate the prohibition
against parking described herein.
(Ord. 390, passed 5-22-1996)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
   
90.03   Regulations for use of parks
   
90.04   Camping restrictions
   
90.05   Anchor Memorial Park
Library
   
90.20   Operation and funding
   
90.21   Rules and regulations
   
90.22   Money collected
   
90.23   Books
   
90.24   Damaged and lost books
   
90.25   Book removal
Swimming Pool
   
90.40   Operation and funding
   
90.41   Admission charge
   
90.42   Rentals
   
90.43   Rules and regulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
PARKS
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the village has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for
park purposes or recreational facilities, or has already built or hereafter
builds swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, the Board of Trustees
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the village. The levy shall be collected and put into the Village
Treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the village. The
Funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing and
beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities or dams, and for the
payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of such
labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees creates a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund,
as the case may be, shall be audited by such Board, and warrants against the
Fund shall be drawn by the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn
shall be paid by the Village Clerk-Treasurer out of the Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall at once be
extended over such real estate; and the Board of Trustees or Park Board shall
have power to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and
preservation of any real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations
for the closing of the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the
general public, and charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the
village or by any person, persons or corporation leasing same. They may provide
suitable penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules or ordinances; and
the police power of the village shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the Board of Trustees prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure or destroy any tree, plant or shrub in any village park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table or any other property of any village park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the village parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 90.03 REGULATIONS FOR USE OF PARKS.
   The following regulations for park operation are hereby prescribed in order
to promote orderly and safe use of the municipal parks and to prevent needless
injury and destruction to park property.
   (A)   Picnic area. Use of picnic areas and facilities is on a first come,
first serve basis.
   (B)   Ballfields. Organized regulation games and practices must be cleared
through the Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-502)
§ 90.04 CAMPING RESTRICTIONS.
   Overnight camping is permitted in the village parks, except that no person
shall be allowed to camp in the village parks for more than 72 consecutive
hours without a camping permit. No person camping in the village parks shall be
allowed to use village water except for incidental purposes. The governing body
may promulgate rules and regulations for the use of the village parks by
campers, and the violation of any such rules and regulations shall be deemed to
be a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-504) (Ord. 326, passed 12-9-1992) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ANCHOR MEMORIAL PARK.
   (A)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the village hereby find and
determine that it is in the best interest of the village that a village park be
identified and created on land donated to the village legally described as: Lot
2 of Cherry Hills Fifth Replat of Blocks 2 and 3, Cherry Hills Seventh
Subdivision, Sutherland, Lincoln County, Nebraska.
   (B)   The name of the park located at the above stated location shall be
“Anchor Memorial Park.”
   (C)   The village may make improvements to Anchor Memorial Park as it sees
fit for the use as a public park.
(Ord. 591, passed 8-13-2014)
LIBRARY
§ 90.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and manages the Municipal Library through the
Library Board.
   (B)   The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
management, purchases, improvements and maintenance of the Library, may each
year levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the
municipality that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be
known as the Library Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of
conveyance, bequests or other valuable income-producing personal property and
real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the Municipal Library.
The Library Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Clerk-Treasurer.
The President of the Library Board shall draw warrants on the Library Fund and
when countersigned by the Secretary shall be honored by the Municipal Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Board shall have the power and authority to appoint the Librarian
and to hire such other employees as it may deem necessary and may pass such
other rules and regulations for the operation of the Library as may be proper
for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the
supervision and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-201, 51-202 and 51-211
§ 90.21 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Library Board shall establish rules and regulations for the governing of
the Municipal Library for the preservation and efficient management thereof.
The Board shall fix and impose by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for
injury to the Library grounds, rooms, books or other property, or for failure
to return a book. All fees, penalties and forfeitures shall be collected in
civil action in the event of failure, neglect of refusal to pay said
assessments.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-205 and 51-214
§ 90.22 MONEY COLLECTED.
   Any money collected by the Library shall be turned over monthly by the
Library Board to the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
(Neb. RS 51-209) (Prior Code, § 3-603)
§ 90.23 BOOKS.
   The Library Board may authorize the sale, exchange or disposal of any
surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or duplicate books in the Library.
Records shall be kept of any such surplus, damaged, defective, obsolete or
duplicate books so disposed of.
(Neb. RS 51-207) (Prior Code, § 3-604)
§ 90.24 DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the Library
shall forfeit and pay to the Library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may
assess.
(Neb. RS 51-211) (Prior Code, § 3-605) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the Library without the consent of the
Librarian or an authorized employee of the Library.
(Neb. RS 51-211) (Prior Code, § 3-606) Penalty, see §
90.99
SWIMMING POOL
§ 90.40 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the Municipal Swimming Pool. The governing
body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance and
improvements of the Swimming Pool, may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool Fund
and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests or other
valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any source for
the purpose of endowing the Swimming Pool. The Swimming Pool Fund shall at all
times be in the custody of the Municipal Clerk-Treasurer. The Board shall make
recommendations regarding the hiring of the Swimming Pool Manager and employees
to the governing body, which shall be responsible for hiring the manager and
employees. The Park Board will make recommendation to the governing body of
such rules and regulations for the operation of the Swimming Pool as may be
proper for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the
supervision and control of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-948, 17-951 and 17-952
§ 90.41 ADMISSION CHARGE.
   The governing body may, for the purpose of defraying the expenses involved
in maintaining, improving, managing and beautifying the Swimming Pool, make a
reasonable admission charge for the use by any person of the Municipal Swimming
Pool. Said charges shall be on file at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and
shall also be posted in a conspicuous place at the Municipal Swimming Pool for
public inspection. Such rates may be structured for classes of persons in a
reasonable manner; provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to permit
or allow discrimination on the basis of race, creed, color or national origin
in the classification of persons for admission charges.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (Prior Code, § 3-1002)
§ 90.42 RENTALS.
   The governing body shall have the authority to rent the Municipal Swimming
Pool to such organizations and other persons. The Board shall prescribe rules
and regulations for such rentals and shall require an appropriate number of
qualified lifeguards to be in attendance during the rental period. Such fees
and other costs shall be on file at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and
posted in a conspicuous place at the Municipal Swimming Pool.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (Prior Code, § 3-1003)
§ 90.43 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The governing body shall have the power and authority to enact bylaws, rules
and regulations for the protection of those using the Swimming Pool and for the
efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable penalties for the
violation of such bylaws, rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 17-949) (Prior Code, § 3-1004)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-1101)
   (B)   Any person removing a book from the Library without properly checking
it out shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-606) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-211
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Prevention of the spread of communicable disease and the like
Nuisances
   
91.15   Purpose
   
91.16   Jurisdiction
   
91.17   Duty to keep free of nuisance
   
91.18   Definitions
   
91.19   Abatement; notice procedure
   
91.20   Enforcement
   
91.21   Unsafe buildings; nuisance abatement
   
91.22   Trees; nuisance abatement
   
91.23   Vehicles; nuisance abatement
   
91.24   Weeds and noxious growth; nuisance abatement
   
91.25   Recovery of village costs
Smoke-Free Air Regulations
   
91.40   Definitions
   
91.41   Smoking prohibitions
   
91.42   Posting of warning
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health, sanitation and safety of the
residents of the village, the village shall adopt this chapter, future
ordinances or resolutions, and the village and/or the nuisance officer shall,
from time to time, adopt such rules and regulations to prevent the introduction
and spread of contagious, infectious or malignant diseases into the village, to
make quarantine laws for that purpose and to enforce same.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.02 PREVENTION OF THE SPREAD OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts the Regulations for the Prevention of the
Spread of Communicable Disease, Illness or Poisoning as adopted by the West
Central District Health Department (“Health Department”) and as attached to the
ordinance codified in this section.
   (B)   The village authorizes the Health Department to exercise control over
the health matters covered by these regulations and to enforce the same within
the jurisdiction of the village.
   (C)   The village agrees to assist the Health Department in the enforcement
of these regulations, to the extent of the village’s ability to provide such
assistance, and the village shall cause its agencies and departments to take
all reasonable steps to fulfill and carry out the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 649, passed 4-22-2020)
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 PURPOSE.
   The village in this subchapter exercises its authority to define, regulate,
suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what shall be a nuisance, and to
abate same for the health and sanitation of the village and within its zoning
jurisdiction of one mile.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.16 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of the village and the nuisance officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter shall extend to, and the territorial application
shall include, all territory within the corporate limits of the village and all
territory adjacent to the limits within one mile and within its zoning
district.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001 and 18-1720
§ 91.17 DUTY TO KEEP FREE OF NUISANCE.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of real
estate in the village and within one mile of its corporate limits to keep such
real estate free of public nuisances for the benefit of the health and
sanitation of the residents of the village. A person commits the offense of
maintaining a nuisance if he or she erects, keeps up or continues and maintains
any nuisance to the injury of any part of the citizens of the village or within
its zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1321
§ 91.18 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENGINE BRAKING. Noise from the use of engine brakes (a practice commonly
known as “jake braking”) is declared a nuisance in the one mile nuisance
jurisdiction of the village. The use of ENGINE BRAKES is not permitted within a
mile of village limits.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      NUISANCE. Consists of doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the municipality;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
      POLLUTED AIR. Air shall be considered to be POLLUTED when the discharge
into the open air of dust, fumes, gases, mist, odors, smoke or any combination
of same is of such a character and such a quantity which to any group of
persons interferes with their health, repose or safety, or causes severe
annoyance or discomfort, or is offensive and objectionable to normal persons
and causes injury to real and personal property of any kind.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure
which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition and which may
cause or aid in the spread of diseases or injury to the health of the occupants
of it or neighboring structures; which because of faulty construction, age,
lack of proper repair or any other cause is especially liable to fire and
constitutes or creates a fire hazard; which by reason of faulty construction or
any other cause is liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of
all or any part of such structure. UNSAFE BUILDING also means any building that
is declared unsafe by the Village Board or one that is defined as unsafe by the
International Property Maintenance Code (in its amended and current form), and
any structure declared by the Village Board to be dangerous to the public
health of the residents of the village.
      WEEDS or NOXIOUS GROWTH. Any weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation which
exceed 12 inches in height or eight inches in height on any lot or piece of
ground located within the corporate limits of the village during any calendar
year if, within the same calendar year, the village has acted to remove weeds,
grasses or worthless vegetation exceeding 12 inches on the same lot or piece of
ground and had to seek recovery of the costs and expenses of such work from the
owner. The terms include, but are not limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula),
Canadian thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba),
Russian Knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa) and
ragweed (Ambrosiaceae) or any noxious weed that is designated and listed as
noxious in rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the State Director
of Agriculture.
   (B) “Nuisances” further defined. The maintaining, using, placing,
depositing, leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts,
omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   The emission of smoke, dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors or polluted
air from any source that is injurious or offensive to the residents of the
village;
      (3)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats or other insects and rodents, or
which are foul or malodorous;
      (4)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (5)   Dead animals or dead animals buried within the corporate limits;
      (6)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (7)   Hauling any garbage, waste or refuse matter through the streets and
alleys, except when the same is loaded and conveyed in such a way when none of
the contents shall be spilled;
      (8)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the nuisance officer
and/or village, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the nuisance officer and/or village;
      (9)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (10)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
or other insects or rodents may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire
danger or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property values in the
vicinity thereof;
      (11)   Any unsafe building, unsightly building, billboard or other
structure, or any old, abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure
or any building or structure commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards or other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public
health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in
the vicinity thereof;
      (12)   All places used or maintained as junk yards or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (13)   Stock-yards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is
being processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the
premises on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and
kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality or are maintained
and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
      (14)   Dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets within
the corporate limits of the village, or on private property within the one-mile
zoning jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits;
      (15)   Undrained lots which hold or may hold stagnant water or any other
nuisance;
      (16)   Any condition which allows the perpetuating of insects and
rodents;
      (17)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing or allowing to remain
trash, garbage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or
partially destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind,
including any junk or abandoned motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery
and equipment;
      (18)   Any vehicle which is not properly registered, or is inoperable,
wrecked, junked or partially dismantled and remaining longer than 30 days on
private property. This does not apply to a vehicle in an enclosed building or a
solid or semi-solid fence, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the lawful operation
of such business enterprise; or on private property, which is previously
approved by the Board of Trustees by resolution for storage of said vehicles
and complies with any limitation thereof; or a vehicle covered completely with
a fitted cover as further described in §§
132.30 through
132.32, and as long as said premises are not a nuisance and are maintained in a
healthful and safe condition;
      (19)   Lots, pieces of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys with
growth of weeds or noxious growth;
      (20)   Any operator of a motor vehicle that uses engine brakes when
operating said vehicle, and in such a manner that the use of said brakes
results in excessive or unreasonable noise likely to cause inconvenience or
annoyance to persons within the village; and
      (21)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 2-946.02, 2-953, 17-555, 17-563 and 18-1720
§ 91.19 ABATEMENT; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nuisance officer.
      (1)   The village shall appoint an individual or organization to identify
and enforce abatement of nuisances within the village. Said individual or
organization shall be identified as the “nuisance officer,” and said
appointment shall be identified by resolution of the village.
      (2)   The Utilities Superintendent shall serve as nuisance officer for
the village.
   (B)   Identifying nuisances.
      (1)   The village may identify suspected nuisances, in which case the
Village Clerk-Treasurer shall, upon direction of the Village Board, notify the
nuisance officer of the suspected location, person or persons in violation of
any provision of this chapter and provide the address of such alleged nuisance.
      (2)   The village may request that the nuisance officer audit the village
for nuisances in the village as defined by this code. The nuisance officer
shall then view the property or area for any violations of the nuisances of the
village. The nuisance officer shall not go upon private property for said audit
unless granted permission by the resident or owner of suspected property.
   (C)   Confirming, documenting and presenting nuisances. The nuisance officer
shall identify and confirm that in his or her opinion a nuisance exists as
defined by federal, state or village law.
      (1)   Upon confirming that a nuisance appears to exist, the nuisance
officer shall document said nuisance with photographs and other evidence
pertinent to the situation. The nuisance officer will also obtain the legal
description of the property and identify the current owners and, if possible,
the occupants of the property upon which the nuisance exists.
      (2)   The nuisance officer shall then present this information to the
Village Board at a regular or special meeting for its confirmation that a
nuisance exists as stated in this subchapter.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013; Res. 2023-05-01, passed 5-10-2023)
§ 91.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation violation is brought to the
governing body by the nuisance officer or upon the governing body’s own action.
The governing body then may declare by resolution a nuisance, health and/or
sanitation violation.
      (2)   The nuisance, health and/or sanitation ordinances may be enforced
by:
         (a)   Village administrative procedures;
         (b)   Penal prosecutions through the courts; and/or
         (c)   Civil procedures in the courts.
      (3)   Any of these procedures or any combination of these procedures may
be used to enforce the nuisance, health and/or sanitation ordinances of the
village.
   (B)   Administrative procedure. The village may proceed with abatement of
the nuisance, sanitation and/or health violation with or without court
involvement after the following procedure is followed.
      (1)   After a nuisance is declared, the Village Clerk-Treasurer notifies
the nuisance officer to serve notice upon the violator(s).
      (2)   The nuisance officer shall prepare and serve notice which shall
describe the found nuisance and state the required date of abatement and
removal of the nuisance shall be accomplished. The notice shall also provide
information as to how the interested parties may request a hearing before the
governing body described in division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   The notice shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized
agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, said notice shall
be given by a single publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village or county and by conspicuously posting the notice on the lot or ground
upon which the nuisance is to be abated and removed. The date of service is
determined by the letter of certified mail receipt, personal service or
publication date.
      (4)   The accused violator (owner/agent/occupant) may request in writing
a hearing before the governing body of the village within five days after
notice of violation is served or published. For tree nuisance violations, the
period for requesting a hearing is extended to 30 days after service.
      (5)   If no request for a hearing is received in the required time
period, the governing body may cause a hearing to be held. This option is at
the sole discretion of the governing body to be used in exceptional cases.
      (6)   If a hearing is requested, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall fix
the date of said hearing to be no later than 15 days from receipt of the
request for the hearing. Notice of said hearing with the date and time shall be
served upon the agent, owner and of the nuisance property by certified and
regular mail.
      (7)   The hearing shall be a “show cause” hearing in which the agent,
owner or occupant of the nuisance property (objecting property) shall provide
evidence as to why the alleged condition should not be found to be a public
nuisance and remedied. This hearing shall be heard before a quorum of the
governing body. The presiding official of the governing body may conduct the
hearing, or said presiding official may appoint another person as the hearing
officer to conduct the hearing (said hearing officer may be the Village
Attorney or the enforcement officer). At the hearing, the hearing officer shall
mark and receive evidence which was presented when the finding of a nuisance
was made, relevant evidence of the nuisance since that time and evidence that
the notices were properly given. The objecting party shall then provide its
evidence. The rules of evidence are not required at said hearing, but all
evidence must be relevant to the particular nuisance being heard. Testimony
shall be under oath as administered by the hearing officer or any person so
designated by the hearing officer, and the person providing the testimony is
subject to the laws of perjury. Evidence may be submitted in writing by
affidavit.
      (8)   No later than 14 days after the hearing and consideration of the
evidence, the governing board may by majority vote rescind the resolution of
violation. If the resolution of violation is not rescinded, it shall stand.
Furthermore, if the objector or its designated agent fails to appear at the
hearing or does not provide evidence, the nuisance shall stand. If the
resolution is not rescinded, the governing board may by resolution extend the
date that owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee shall abate and remedy said
public nuisance, but in no case shall this time exceed 60 days. The findings of
the governing board shall be made no later than 14 days after the hearing and
notice of its finding shall be served upon the objecting party by regular U.S.
mail within five days of the finding. The finding of this hearing is final;
provided, that an interested party or parties may appeal such decision to the
appropriate court for adjudication.
      (9)   If the nuisance officer determines the nuisance is not remedied and
abated within the time period designated, the village shall cause the abatement
of the nuisance.
      (10)   The village shall have the right to remove such nuisance and
assess the cost of removal against the property on which such nuisance exists.
      (11)   If an interested party properly appeals to an appropriate court
the findings and orders of the village, the village actions shall be stayed
during until such time that the legal proceedings are completed or dismissed.
In cases of appeal from an action of the village condemning real property as a
nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the municipality, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 91.21 UNSAFE BUILDINGS; NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the nuisance officer or designated official of the governing body
shall determine that any building or structure in the village is an unsafe
building, the written determination shall be filed with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon serve the owner and
occupant of the premises notice as stated in §
91.20. The violator is given 30 days to remedy the nuisance. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall also cause the property to be posted of the violation and shall
file a copy of such determination in the office of the County Register of
Deeds. If the unsafe building or structure is an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice, the village may
summarily repair or demolish and remove such building or structure.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 91.22 TREES; NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Notice to abate and remove tree violations and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the village
may have such work completed by the village or by a third party, and the owner
or occupant shall be responsible for any charges or fees related to such work.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 91.23 VEHICLES; NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice to remove for private property. Notice of removal may be given
to the owner or occupant of the private property upon which such vehicle is
located and such notice shall request that said vehicle be removed from said
property within 30 days of the date of said notice, and the notice shall advise
that upon failure to comply with the notice to remove, the village or its
designee may issue a citation or shall undertake such removal with the cost of
removal to be levied against the owner of the vehicle or the owner or occupant
of the property.
   (B)   Removal after notice.
      (1)   Upon the notice to remove, the owner of the vehicle and the owner
or occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either or all
of them, shall be responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and
disposition by the village, the owner or occupant of the private property where
the same is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
      (2)   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied
within the 30-day period of compliance, the nuisance officer or his or her
designee shall have the right to take possession of said vehicle and remove it
from the premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder or refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property
for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Valuation and title. If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of
abandonment, has no number plates of the current year affixed and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of the vehicle, of
$250 or less, title shall immediately be vested in the village.
   (D)   Duties of nuisance officer. Except for vehicles governed by division
(C) above, the nuisance officer or designated official shall:
      (1)   Make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of such
vehicle;
      (2)   Notify the last registered owner, if any, that the vehicle in
question has been recovered as an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, it
will be sold at public action after five days from the date such notice was
mailed. (If the village is notified that a lien or mortgage exists on said
vehicle, such notice shall also be sent the lien holder or mortgagee); and
      (3)   Proceed to obtain title of the abandoned vehicle in the village’s
name, pursuant to Neb. RS 60-1903.
   (E)   Proceeds of sale; disposition. Any proceeds from the sale of an
abandoned vehicle less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by
the village without interest, for the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for
a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, such
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
   (F)   Liability for removal. Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the
premises from which any abandoned vehicle shall be removed nor the village
shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its
removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual agent, or
as a result of any subsequent disposition.
   (G)   Cost of removal and storage. The last registered owner of an abandoned
vehicle shall be liable to the village for the costs of removal and storage of
such vehicle.
   (H)   Redemption of impounded vehicles. The owner of any vehicle seized
under the provisions of this section may redeem such vehicle at any time after
its removal but prior to the sale or destruction thereof upon proof of
ownership, presentment of a valid registration certificate, current license
plates and payment to the nuisance officer or designated official of such sum
as said officer/official may determine and fix for the actual and reasonable
expense of removal and any preliminary sale advertising expenses, including a
reasonable amount for storage for each vehicle redeemed.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 WEEDS AND NOXIOUS GROWTH; NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Excessive growth and weeds are subject to abatement as described in
this subchapter and as follows.
   (B)   The Village Utilities Superintendent (who is the nuisance officer for
this procedure) may identify these types of nuisances and act upon them as
follows:
      (1)   Obtain photographs of the alleged nuisance and store same in a file
at the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office for the nuisance; and
      (2)   Notify the owner, occupant or agent of the property of the
identified nuisance.
         (a)   Notification shall be made by:
            1.   Mailing the notice by certified and first class mail to the
address identified by the assessor’s office for said tract of land as well as
to the occupant at the address of the identified property if different than the
assessor’s address. Mailings shall be conspicuously marked of the importance of
the content;
            2.   Personal service of the notice upon the owner, occupant or
agent; or
            3.   Posting the tract of land with the notice after personal
service upon the owner, occupant or agent is attempted and failed (attempts
shall be noted and signed by the person attempting the service in the file of
the nuisance).
         (b)   The notice shall state that the owner or resident has five days
from the notice date (as identified therein) to request a hearing in front of
the Board of Trustees and if no request is received in a timely manner said
hearing shall be deemed waived. The procedure for the hearing is stated in §
91.20(B).
         (c)   The notice date is the later of five days after personal service
is made, or the property is posted, or the date of receipt of certified mail.
         (d)   If a hearing is requested, and the Board finds that a nuisance
exists, or no hearing is requested, the Village Utilities Superintendent shall
immediately abate or have abated said nuisance at village expense.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013)
§ 91.25 RECOVERY OF VILLAGE COSTS.
   (A)   When the village has effected the abatement of the nuisance, health
and/or sanitation violation through either village employees or through
contract with a third party and has incurred expenses and costs thereof, the
actual cost thereof shall be charged to the owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control of such property. The billing shall be calculated
at the actual cost of abating the nuisance plus an administrative fee in an
amount as established by the village by resolution.
   (B)   This billing shall be submitted to the last known address of the owner
of the nuisance property as found in the County Treasurer’s office by regular
U.S. mail.
   (C)   If said costs are not paid within two months after the work is done
and one month after the expenses, and costs are submitted to the owner and/or
occupant, the village may levy and assess the expenses and costs upon the real
estate benefitted by the actions in the same manner as other special
assessments are levied and assessed, and the village may collect said
assessments in the same procedure as other special assessments are collected.
The village may also recover said expenses and costs of abating the nuisance,
health and/or sanitation violation(s) in a civil action in the courts of the
appropriate county in the state.
(Ord. 577, passed 8-14-2013)
SMOKE-FREE AIR REGULATIONS
§ 91.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any noncombustible product containing nicotine
that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed, dissolved or
ingested by any other means.
   BALLFIELD. Includes village-owned baseball, softball, soccer and football
fields.
   ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYSTEM. Any product or device containing
nicotine, tobacco or tobacco derivatives that employs a heating element, power
source, electronic circuit or other electronic, chemical or mechanical means,
regardless of shape or size, to simulate smoking by delivering the nicotine,
tobacco or tobacco derivatives in vapor, fog, mist, gas or aerosol form to a
person inhaling from the product or device.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling or roof that is
contained on all sides by walls (exclusive of doorways) or windows, either
permanent or temporary, which extend from the floor to the ceiling or roof.
   FACILITIES. Buildings, vehicles, equipment and machinery, if they constitute
an enclosed area.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, plant or other tobacco product in any manner or in any form
including the use of an electronic nicotine delivery system and/or alternative
nicotine product.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Sutherland, Nebraska.
   VILLAGE PARK. Includes village-owned parks and recreational areas.
(Ord. 647, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 91.41 SMOKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited:
      (1)   In all enclosed areas in all facilities, including buildings and
vehicles owned, leased or operated by the village, including common work areas,
auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, reception areas, private
offices, elevators, hallways, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs, restrooms
and all other enclosed facilities;
      (2)   Within the fenced confines of any animal exercise area of any
village-owned park, excluding the village’s rodeo grounds except where
otherwise indicated;
      (3)   Within the perimeter fencing of public swimming pools and
ballfields, as well as bleachers and grandstands providing seating for public
swimming pools and ballfields; and
      (4)   Within 25 feet of any entrance or exit to or from the Public
Library.
   (B)   The village reserves the right to exempt other village-owned
properties from the requirements of this section by adoption of a resolution
specifically identifying the area that such regulations are inapplicable.
(Ord. 647, passed 2-12-2020; Ord. 648, passed 3-11-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 POSTING OF WARNING.
   No person shall be prosecuted for violation of this subchapter unless the
violation occurred in an area posted with a sign prohibiting smoking. The signs
shall set forth the words “No Smoking,” or the international “No Smoking”
symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette
enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it) and shall be clearly and
conspicuously posted on or adjacent to each entrance door of every enclosed
facility or area where smoking is prohibited by this subchapter.
(Ord. 647, passed 2-12-2020)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense, in
addition to any and all fees or costs assessed and/or incurred with respect to
the original violation(s). A new violation shall be deemed to have been
committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
   (B)   (1)   Penal court enforcement procedure. If a declared nuisance,
health and/or sanitation violation is not abated within 15 days after notice is
served upon the owner and/or occupant as described in §§
91.15 through
91.24 and the Village Clerk-Treasurer has not received a request for hearing,
the nuisance officer may cause issue of a citation for the code violation.
         (a)   The citation shall be prosecuted to the appropriate court by the
Village Attorney or other designated prosecutor for the village.
         (b)   A person or persons found guilty of these violations shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined up to $500 per each offense.
         (c)   Each day that the nuisance as identified in the nuisance
resolution and notice, is not abated shall be a separate offense and subject to
a separate fine.
      (2)   Civil court procedure. The governing board may instruct by
resolution the Village Attorney to file a civil action for the abatement of a
nuisance. Said civil suit may commence after 15 days’ notice has been served,
as stated in §§
91.19 and
91.20, and may be filed and prosecuted at the same time any other enforcement
procedure has commenced, terminated or in progress.
   (C)   A violator of §§
91.15 through
91.25 may be found guilty of a misdemeanor, assessed costs of abatement and be
subject to a civil court action (see §
91.20).
   (D)   A person who violates §§
91.35 through
91.37 shall be punished as provided generally in this code. The penalty for
violation of any provisions of §§
91.35 through
91.37 shall be not more than $500, and each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 575, passed 7-24-2013; Ord. 577, passed 8-14-2013; Ord. 647, passed 2-12-
2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1321
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Care of animals
   
92.03   Excessive animal noise
   
92.04   Prohibited animals in residential area
   
92.05   Animal abuse
   
92.06   Animal fighting
   
92.07   Killing, injuring or poisoning domestic animals
   
92.08   Abandonment
   
92.09   Running at large; tethering
   
92.10   Removal of animal waste required
   
92.11   Commercial animal establishments
   
92.12   Disposal of dead animals
   
92.13   Animal bites and disease control
   
92.14   Impoundment
Dogs
   
92.25   Generally
   
92.26   Dog licenses
   
92.27   Rabies vaccination required
   
92.28   Running at large
   
92.29   Dangerous dogs
   
92.30   Potentially dangerous dogs
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE CARE. Normal and prudent attention to the needs of an animal,
including the care which is normally necessary to maintain good health in a
specific species of animal.
   ADEQUATE CONTROL. The control necessary to restrain or govern an animal so
that the animal does not injure or pose a threat to itself, any person, any
other animal or property.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. Wholesome foodstuffs suitable for the species provided at
suitable intervals in a sanitary manner in quantities sufficient to maintain
good health in an animal considering its age and condition.
   ADEQUATE HEALTHCARE. The provision to each healthy animal of all
immunizations and preventative care required to maintain good health, and space
adequate to allow the animal rest and exercise sufficient to maintain good
health, and the provision to each sick, diseased or injured animal of necessary
veterinary care or humane deaths.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structurally sound, properly ventilated, sanitary and
weatherproof shelter for the species, condition and age of the animal which
provides access to shade from direct sunlight and regress from exposure to
inclement weather conditions.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A constant access to or access at suitable intervals to a
supply of fresh, clean, potable water provided in a sanitary manner suitable
for the species, condition and age of the animal in sufficient amounts to
maintain good health in the animal.
   ANIMAL. Any live vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, other than a human,
including, but not limited to, the following.
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal which is tame or domesticated or adapted
to live in intimate association with humans, such as a pet.
      (2)   FARM ANIMAL. An animal raised on a farm or ranch and used or
intended for use in farm or ranch production, or as food or fiber.
      (3)   FOWL. Any and all fowl, domesticated and wild, male and female,
singular and plural.
      (4)   LARGE ANIMAL. Any swine, bovine, goat, sheep or beast of burden, or
any other domestic or wild animal of similar or larger size.
      (5)   SMALL ANIMAL. Any animal not within the definition of large animal,
but including all dogs without reference to size.
      (6)   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which is predominantly free-roaming as
opposed to domesticated.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The County Sheriff’s Department, any duly appointed
Sheriff Deputy, humane officer or animal control officer of the village
designated by the Village Board to control animals and enforce this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facilities operated by the village or its authorized
agents, or any facility designated by the village for the purpose of impounding
or caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   CAT. Any domestic feline animal (Felis domesticus), male or female, sexed or
neutered.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, animal
exhibit, rodeo, auction, riding school, stable, carriage horse service,
cattery, kennel, patrol, sentry or guard dog service, animal trainer or
business keeping animals in stock for retail or wholesale trade, or any
establishment performing one or more of the principal activities of such
establishment.
   DOG. Any domestic canine animal (Canis familiaris) male or female, sexed or
neutered. Any cross or hybrid which is part dog and part wild animal shall be
considered a wild animal for the purpose of this chapter.
   HARBOR. To feed or shelter an animal at the same location for three or more
consecutive days.
   HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of any animal accomplished by a method
approved by the American Veterinary Medical Association Committee on
Euthanasia.
   OFFICER. Any authorized law enforcement officer, animal control officer or
other person designated by the governing board to enforce this chapter.
   OWNER. Any person who keeps or harbors an animal or professes to be owning,
keeping or harboring an animal.
   PESTS. Birds, rabbits or rodents which damage property or have an adverse
effect on the public health.
   PRIMARY ENCLOSURE. Any structure used to immediately restrict an animal to a
limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, run, cage, compartment, pool or
hutch.
   PRIVATE ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility which is used to house or contain dogs
or cats, or both, and which is owned, operated or maintained by an incorporated
humane society, animal welfare society, society for the prevention of cruelty
to animals or other nonprofit organization devoted to the welfare, protection
and humane treatment of such animals.
   SANITARY. Clean and free from infectious or deleterious influences.
   SERVICE FEE. The fee owed and paid to the village to violators of this
chapter to offset costs incurred in enforcement.
   TRANSPORTATION FEE. The fee assessed owed and paid to the village to
violators of this chapter to offset costs incurred in transporting animals to
the village impound facility, designated village impound facility or other
location deemed necessary by the animal control officer.
   VETERINARIAN. A person licensed by the state to engage in the practice of
veterinary medicine.
   VETERINARY MEDICAL CARE FACILITY. A facility which has the primary function
of providing medical care for animals and is operated by a currently licensed
veterinarian.
   VILLAGE. The corporate limits of the Village of Sutherland.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022)
§ 92.02 CARE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   No person, whether as owner, keeper or custodian shall keep or
maintain any horse, mule, burro, cow, sheep, goat, swine, nor any turkey,
goose, guinea fowl, chicken or other animal within the residential limits of
the village, except upon obtaining a special animal permit from the Village
Board.
      (2)   A resident may be allowed 4-H animals in the normal preparation for
a 4-H project or fair project.
      (3)   A resident may maintain up to six female chickens which are caged
humanely.
      (4)   The Board may at its discretion contact surrounding neighbors and
residents and the animal control officer for their input prior to issuing a
permit. If at any time the requirements of the special animal permit are no
longer being adhered to by the owner, keeper or custodian, the Village Board
may revoke such permit upon written notice to the owner, keeper or custodian.
      (5)   The Village Board shall establish the fee for issuing of a special
animal permit.
   (B)   Required care. It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping,
harboring or otherwise in possession or control of any animal to fail to
provide any or all of the following to the animal:
      (1)   Adequate care;
      (2)   Adequate control;
      (3)   Adequate food;
      (4)   Adequate healthcare;
      (5)   Adequate shelter; and
      (6)   Adequate water.
   (C)   Responsibility of parents for animals owned by minors. Any parent,
guardian or other person having custody of a minor child is deemed legally and
criminally responsible for the adequate care of any animal owned by, in the
control of or harbored by that minor child.
   (D)   Limitation on number of dogs and cats. It shall be unlawful and a
public nuisance for any person in charge of a residence to keep or allow to be
kept more than four dogs or cats, or any combination of such animals exceeding
four in number, over the age of 90 days at such residence, unless the residence
or the owner of the dogs and cats kept there is within one more of the
following exceptions:
      (1)   The residence is licensed as a commercial animal establishment
pursuant to §
92.11; or
      (2)   The owner of the dogs and cats over 90 days of age has applied for
and received a permit to keep dogs and cats in excess of four as provided for
under this section and, upon request of an officer, presents for inspection
such permit.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 EXCESSIVE ANIMAL NOISE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EXCESSIVE NOISE. Any noise produced by an animal which is so loud and
continuous as to disturb the peace and quiet of a neighbor or person who
reasonably could expect that the excessive noise would disturb his or her peace
and quiet
      NEIGHBOR. An individual residing in a residence structure which is within
100 yards of the property on which the animal is kept or harbored and who does
in writing state the animal is making excessive noise.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any animal which,
by making excessive noise, disturbs a neighborhood.
   (C)   A neighbor to the location where an animal is located and accused of
making excessive noise may file a complaint to the animal control officer, the
Village Clerk-Treasurer or the County Sheriff’s office by submitting a written
complaint in a form provided by the Village Clerk-Treasurer or animal control
officer. This complaint shall then be investigated by the animal control
officer to determine if a violation was made and the proper way to handle it.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an officer from filing a
complaint for excessive noise based on his or her own observations and personal
knowledge.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PROHIBITED ANIMALS IN RESIDENTIAL AREA.
   (A)   It is prohibited to keep, harbor, sell, feed and maintain any wild
animal, poisonous or venomous animal or any warm-blooded carnivorous or
omnivorous animal, including, but not limited to, nonhuman primates, raccoons,
skunks, foxes, leopards, panthers, tigers and lions, but excluding fish, fowl,
dogs, house cats, ferrets and small rodents of varieties commonly kept as
household pets, such as rats, mice, gerbils, guinea pigs and hamsters.
   (B)   Nonpoisonous snakes and other reptiles which are normally considered
pets may be allowed but shall be kept in a locked, escape-proof cage except
when being handled. No snake shall be permitted by the owner keeper or handler
to escape from its cage or while being handled.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, RESIDENTIAL AREA shall mean any area
not zoned for commercial agricultural or industrial purposes.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 ANIMAL ABUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to beat, ill-treat, torment, overload,
overwork or cause injury or unnecessary pain to any animal.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty defined, see Neb. RS 28-1008
§ 92.06 ANIMAL FIGHTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, instigate, train or
torment any animal for or permit any fight between any animal and other animal
or human.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attend or solicit attendance at
or be an umpire, judge or other official at a fight staged between any animal
and other animal or human.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 KILLING, INJURING OR POISONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to kill or to administer or cause to be administered
poison of any sort to a domestic animal, or in any manner injure, maim or
destroy or in any manner attempt to injure, maim or destroy any domestic animal
that is the property of another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food
where the poison or poisoned food is accessible to a domestic animal.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to abandon any animal.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, TO ABANDON means for the owner or the
keeper to leave an animal without demonstrated or apparent intent to recover
the animal or resume custody of the animal, or to leave an animal for more than
12 hours without providing for adequate food, water and shelter for the
duration of the absence, or to leave an animal confined in a motor vehicle in a
public place during weather conditions that endanger its life.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring a
horse, mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine or fowl or any other animal to allow or to
permit the animal to be herded or to run at large on any of the public ways and
property, or upon the property of another, or to be tethered or staked out in
such a manner so as to allow such animal to reach or pass into any public way,
within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring any
horse, mule, cow, sheep, goat, swine or other animal to keep or maintain the
animal within 100 feet of any part of any building used by another as a
residence or place of dwelling. For the purpose of this section, OTHER ANIMALS
shall not include rabbits or animals required by this chapter to be vaccinated
against the rabies virus.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring any
rabbit to keep or maintain the rabbit within 15 feet of any part of any
building used by another as a residence or place of dwelling, which is located
in a Residential District of the village.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring any
fowl to keep or maintain the fowl within 25 feet of any part of any building
used by another as a residence or place of dwelling.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL WASTE REQUIRED.
   The owner or harborer of every animal, when such animal is off the property
controlled by the owner or harborer, shall be responsible for the removal of
any fecal material before taking the animal from the immediate area where such
excretion occurred. Failure to remove such fecal material is unlawful.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a commercial
animal establishment within the village without first having secured a license
for the current year from the Village Clerk-Treasurer and having paid the
occupation tax assessed against commercial animal establishments. The license
fee shall be established per licensing year. The commercial animal
establishment operator shall not be required to obtain a license for each
individual dog lawfully kept in the establishment after the issuance of the
license. The owner or operator shall operate a licensed commercial animal
establishment only during the continuance of the existence of the license and
subject to all rules and regulations of the village.
   (B)   Upon application to the Animal Control Commission for a commercial
animal establishment license, the Commission or its designated agent shall make
an inspection of the proposed site of the establishment to ensure the site is
sanitary and can be maintained in a sanitary condition and that the site will
provide shelter from the elements for the animals. The license shall state the
name of the person licensed to operate such establishment, the maximum number
of animals that may be kept and the location of the establishment. All dog
kennels shall contain a minimum square footage of 100 square feet per dog.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   The animal control officer or his or her authorized agent shall be
responsible for the removal of all dead animals found within the village except
as otherwise provided in this section. For the purpose of this section, the
term DEAD ANIMAL shall mean one not killed for food or no longer fit for food.
The actual cost of such removal shall be paid by the owner.
   (B)   All large dead animals shall be removed and legally disposed of by the
owner or proprietor of the premises within 12 hours after death of such animal.
If not so removed, such animal shall be removed at actual cost to the property
owner or proprietor.
   (C)   On occupied property, the owner or the tenant thereof shall provide
easy access to the subject animal for purposes of its removal. No person owning
or having in his or her possession the carcass of any animal not to be used for
food shall permit the carcass to remain in or upon any street, sidewalk, park,
public ground, private lot or other place without at once giving notice to the
Director of Public Health.
   (D)   Burial of animals shall only be permitted at pet cemeteries and
licensed landfills.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022)
§ 92.13 ANIMAL BITES AND DISEASE CONTROL.
   (A)   Any bite to a human or wound exposing an individual to the possibility
of rabies or other zoonotic disease (referred to in this section as an
“incident”) shall be immediately reported to the Sheriff’s office and the
Village Clerk-Treasurer by the victim and by the owner or harborer of the
animal if the incident is known to them. Any such animal bite that requires
medical treatment shall be reported within 24 hours to the Sheriff’s Department
by the treating physician or hospital caring for the patient.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner or harborer of any animal, upon
receiving notice or having knowledge of the involvement of his or her pet in a
human exposure to the possibility of rabies or other zoonotic disease by
biting, to immediately place such animal in a duly licensed veterinary medical
facility, the address of which must be furnished to the Village Clerk-
Treasurer, where such animal shall be isolated and confined for observation for
ten consecutive days from and including the date of the incident. It shall be
unlawful for the owner or harborer of the animal involved in such incident to
release it from said placement or to hide or conceal such animal or to take or
allow such animal to be taken beyond the limits of the village or the facility
in which it is placed, unless authorized by the Sheriff’s Department or court,
until a period of confinement and observation required in this section is
completed.
   (C)   The owner or harborer of such animal involved in an incident shall be
liable for the costs of confinement and observation.
   (D)   The death of such animal or any suspicious change in the health or
behavior of any such animal undergoing observation shall be reported as soon as
possible by the observing authority to the Sheriff’s Department or its designee
and the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Unless determined otherwise by the Sheriff’s Department, an exception
to the confinement required by this section shall be granted in cases where a
female dog is nursing unweaned puppies or a female cat is nursing unweaned
kittens.
   (F)   If any dangerous, fierce or vicious animal believed involved in an
incident (as the term “incident” is used in divisions (A) and (B) above cannot
be safely captured or prevented from escaping by usual means, such animal may
be slain by the Sheriff or his or her designee. In a case where such animal may
have exposed a person to rabies and is slain before the completion of the
observation period stipulated for the species by the Director of Health, it
shall be the duty of the person slaying such animal to forthwith deliver, or
cause to be delivered, all remains of such animal, including the undamaged
head, to the location designated by the Sheriff.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any animal found in violation of this chapter may be taken by an
officer and impounded in a designated impoundment facility or at a designated
holding place and be there confined in a humane manner pending further action
pursuant to this chapter or other law. Prior to an animal being transported to
the impoundment facility, if the owner or keeper is available within a
reasonable time, prior to the animal being transported to the impoundment
facility, the animal may be released to the owner or keeper upon him or her
paying to the village a service fee as follows:
      (1)   First offense within a 24-month period: in an amount as established
by the village by resolution;
      (2)   Second offense within a 24-month period: in an amount as
established by the village by resolution; and
      (3)   Third and any further offenses within a 24-month period: in an
amount as established by the village by resolution plus costs for obtaining the
proper vaccinations, certificates, permits and licenses. Such costs shall apply
to each animal subject to this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any animal is confined by authority of this chapter, it shall
be the duty of the officer to release the animal to its licensed owner, upon
payment to the village of all applicable fees required by this chapter.
   (C)   The village shall notify the owner of any licensed animal bearing a
legible tag of its impoundment. No liability shall attach to the village or to
the officer for failure to give such notice if the owner of the animal is not
able to be located after reasonable investigation.
   (D)   Impounded animals that are not claimed by their owners shall be kept
for the period the village or the impoundment facility determines feasible, but
no less than three days, except:
      (1)   When given to dispose of by an owner, keeper or harborer, in which
case the animal shall be held until the next calendar day before making
disposition. The owner, keeper or harborer of the animal shall execute a waiver
or release granting the animal control officer or his or her agent exclusive
and total authority to dispose of the animal in any humane fashion, including,
but not limited to, euthanizing, and shall execute a release from liability
associated therewith;
      (2)   When an animal arrives at the shelter in so sick or injured a
condition that in the judgment of the officer or licensed veterinarian, human
compassion requires that the suffering be promptly ended. In such instance the
time period shall not apply, and the animal will be humanely killed to prevent
needless suffering; or
      (3)   When an animal has previously been kept for a minimum of three days
by the political subdivision surrendering the animal and it is certified that
the animal has been held for the required length of time.
   (E)   Whenever an animal remains in the impoundment facility or other place
of impoundment or holding for a period longer than three days (except those
animals impounded for disease control observation, in which case the holding
period shall begin at the expiration of the observation period), the animal
shall be disposed of in a humane manner. No officer shall dispose of any
captured or impounded animal except through the procedures provided by this
chapter.
   (F)   Whenever any animal is captured and impounded, the owner or harborer
of the impoundment facility shall assess intake fees, boarding fees and other
costs for maintaining the animal as determined by the facility. The owner or
harborer is also obligated for the following fees:
      (1)   Transportation fees of an amount as established by the village by
resolution;
      (2)   Service fees as designated herein;
      (3)   Licensing, permit, certificate fees as designated by the village;
      (4)   Required vaccination fees; and
      (5)   Such costs shall apply to each animal subject to this chapter.
   (G)   An owner or keeper must pay the designated fees in full to obtain
custody of his or her animal. The fees may be waived by the village and
impoundment facility for properly adopted animals, but fees shall not be waived
for animals adopted to persons of the same household or closely related to the
animal’s owner or keeper or for the purpose of returning the animal to its
owner or harborer.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022)
DOGS
§ 92.25 GENERALLY.
   These are dog regulations within the village which are in addition to the
general animal regulations found in this chapter and apply to all dogs.
Enforcement of the dog regulations is similar to the enforcement of all animal
regulations and can be enforced by the animal control officer and the County
Sheriff.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022)
§ 92.26 DOG LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of four
months within the village shall, within 30 days after the acquisition of said
dog, acquire a license for each dog annually by or before January 1 of each
year. Any dog brought into the village after January 1 of any year shall have
30 days to comply with this licensing provision.
   (B)   Said licenses shall be issued by the Village Clerk-Treasurer upon the
payment of a license fee which is set by resolution by the Board of Trustees
for each dog. Said fee shall not be transferable, and no refund will be allowed
in the case of death, sale or other disposition of the licensed dog. The owner
shall state at the time of the application is made and upon printed forms
provided for that purpose, his or her name and address and the name, breed,
color and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or her. Before a license shall
be issued, a certificate that the dog has had a rabies shot effective for the
ensuing year of the license shall be presented and that the dog has not been
declared a potentially dangerous or dangerous dog by any other village, city or
county in this or any other state.
   (C)   Upon payment of a license fee, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
to the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tags shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of all dogs so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor said dog
until the December 31 following such licensing. In the event that a licensed
tag is lost and upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or tag was
issued in accordance with the provisions herein, the Village Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for the issuance
fee of $1.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harbored of any dog to
maintain or keep said dog within the village without a license tag affixed as
stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Vaccination required. All dogs over four months of age must be
vaccinated against rabies. Young dogs shall be vaccinated within 30 days after
they have reached four months of age. Unvaccinated dogs acquired or moved into
the village must be vaccinated within 30 days after arrival or purchase, unless
under four months of age as specified in this section. Each dog shall be re-
vaccinated following a period of not more than 36 months since its last
vaccination for rabies. Rabies vaccines used must meet the requirements of the
current compendium of animal rabies vaccines and Neb. RS 71-4402. The cost of
rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the dog.
   (B)   Issuance of certificate of vaccination and tag.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, at the time of
vaccinating any dog, to complete a certificate of rabies vaccination, which
shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   The owner’s name and address;
         (b)   A description of the dog, including the breed, sex markings, age
and name;
         (c)   The date of vaccination;
         (d)   The rabies vaccination tag number;
         (e)   The type of rabies vaccine administered; and
         (f)   The manufacturer’s serial number of the vaccine.
      (2)   The veterinarian shall issue a tag with the certificate of
vaccination.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of division (A) above with respect to
vaccination shall not apply to any nonresident owner or keeper of a dog while
such nonresident is passing through the village; provided, that such dog shall
remain on a leash or otherwise be physically restrained as provided for
elsewhere in this chapter. Dogs of nonresidents need not be licensed during dog
shows or exhibitions; however, proof of rabies vaccination shall be presented
by the owners or keepers upon demand, and failure to do so shall constitute a
violation of this section.
   (D)   Display of tags. The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep in his or her
possession the certificate of rabies vaccination as proof of the vaccination.
Further, the tag of rabies vaccination shall be attached to the harness or
collar of the dog at all times. No person shall remove or cause to be removed
the collar, harness or rabies tag from any dog or cat without the consent of
the owner or keeper.
   (E)   Impoundment. Any dog found outside the owner’s or keeper’s premises
whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for such dog shall be impounded. Each impounded
dog, except as provided for in §
92.13, shall be kept at a designated animal shelter for a period of not less
than three days unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of
all animals, including any significant marks of identification shall be posted
at the shelter as public notification of impoundment. Any unvaccinated dog may
be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment by payment of the
prescribed impoundment fees and by complying with rabies vaccination
requirements within 72 hours of release. Any vaccinated dog impounded because
its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination, and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for such dog may be reclaimed by its owner by
furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all impoundment fees
prior to release.
   (F)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to have his or
her dog vaccinated for rabies as required by this section, to fail to affix or
attach the valid rabies vaccination tag to the animal’s collar or harness, to
fail to possess and present proof of valid and current rabies vaccination or to
violate any of the provisions or requirements of this section. Failure of the
owner of a dog to present to an animal control officer, upon demand, the valid
rabies vaccination certificate and valid rabies vaccination tag shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the dog is not properly vaccinated and
that the requirements and provisions of this section have been violated.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.28 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring any
dog to permit, suffer or allow the dog to run at large within the village. For
the purpose of this section, any dog shall be deemed to have been permitted,
suffered or allowed by its owner, keeper or harborer to run at large when
outside of the property of the owner, keeper or harborer and not effectively
physically restrained on a chain or leash or behind a suitable fence or other
proper method of physical restraint from which it cannot escape. Service dogs
being used in their official capacity shall be exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   If a dog is running at large within the village, an officer has the
authority to capture the animal and attempt to notify the owner or harborer or
transport it to the village designated place of impoundment.
   (C)   (1)   The village will reasonably attempt to contact the owner or
harborer of a running at large dog that has previously obtained a rabies
vaccination and has a valid dog license issued from the village before
transporting the dog to impoundment.
      (2)   The dog will be released to the owner or harborer of said animal
only upon he or she is paying a “service fee” to the village as follows:
         (a)   First offense within a 24-month period: in an amount as
established by the village by resolution;
         (b)   Second offense within a 24-month period: in an amount as
established by the village by resolution; and
         (c)   Third and any further offenses within a 24-month period: in an
amount as established by the village by resolution.
      (3)   Such costs shall apply to each animal subject to this chapter.
   (D)   Any dog within the village who is not properly rabies vaccinated, or
does not have a valid dog license, or for whom the village is unable, after
reasonable efforts, to contact the owner or harborer (as stated in division (C)
above), or refuses to pay the service fee shall be impounded at the village
designated animal impoundment facility. Prior to the animal being released from
the impoundment facility, the owner or harborer shall in addition to paying the
service fee, pay the impound fee(s) as designated by the impound facility,
obtain a rabies vaccination, obtain a required license and pay transportation
fees in an amount as established by the village by resolution.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring any
dog to allow the animal to injure or destroy any personal or real property of
any description belonging to another person. The owner, keeper or person
harboring any such dog, in addition to the person’s usual judgment upon
conviction, may be held liable for restitution to the person so injured in an
amount equal to the value of the damage sustained.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.29 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A) The owning, allowing, keeping, selling or harboring of a dangerous dog
within the corporate limits of the village is hereby prohibited and unlawful.
   (B)   Any dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer and placed in quarantine, at the owner’s costs, until ordered
by the court to either return the dog to the owner or humanely kill it or until
the time for impounding has passed. The option of releasing the animal to the
owner in lieu of impoundment, as provided in §§
92.14 and
92.28, shall not be available when the dog or animal is being confiscated and
impounded pursuant to this section.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog or animal that has:
            1.   Inflicted severe injury on a human being without provocation
on public or private property;
            2.   Killed a severely mutilated a domestic animal without
provocation while off the owner’s property;
            3.   Been previously found to be potentially dangerous, the owner
has received due notice of such determination and the dog aggressively bites,
attacks or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals;
            4.   Been previously found to be potentially dangerous and the
owner having received due notice of such findings, the dog again commits any
act that would cause it to be declared a potentially dangerous dog; and/or
            5.   By any other section in this chapter that causes such animal
to be declared a DANGEROUS DOG or DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
         (b)   Dogs shall not be declared DANGEROUS if the threat, injury or
damage was sustained by a person who, at the time was committing a willful
trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or
was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or has in the past been observed
or reported to have tormented abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery, or
bites which break the skin and requires medical attention.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.30 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG or POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any dog that,
when unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or a domestic animal either on
public or private property, or chases or approaches a person upon the streets,
sidewalks or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of
attack; or any dog or animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise threaten the safety of
humans or domestic animals.
      PROPER ENCLOSURE. Confinement indoors or confinement in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure, suitable to prevent the entry of young
children and designed to prevent the animal from escaping. As minimum
requirements, PROPER ENCLOSURES shall:
         (a)   Have secure sides and a secure top;
         (b)   Be securely embedded into the ground to a depth of at least one
foot;
         (c)   Provide protection from the elements for the dog;
         (d)   Be located at the minimum of ten feet from any property line of
the owner; and
         (e)   Have warning signs located on the property where the structure
or pen is located that are clearly visible from all areas of public access that
inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property. Each warning sign shall
be no less than ten inches by 12 inches and contain the words “warning” and
“dangerous dog” or “dangerous animal” in high contrast lettering at least three
inches high on a black background and a sign with a “warning symbol” of the
presence of a dangerous dog.
   (B)   Determination and notification.
      (1)   If it is determined by an animal control officer that a dog or
other animal is potentially dangerous, an animal control officer shall notify
in writing to the owner of the dog that has been declared a potentially
dangerous dog or animal. A copy of the written notification shall be submitted
to the Village Clerk-Treasurer who shall keep said notice on file.
      (2)   If the owner of the dog disagrees with the determination, the owner
may appeal in writing to the Village Board within ten days of receiving the
notice by giving written notice to the Village Clerk-Treasurer. Upon receiving
the appeal, the Board shall hold a hearing at its next regular meeting to
examine the evidence concerning the determination previously made.
         (a)   The hearing shall be informal in nature and the rules of
evidence shall not apply, but the Board shall consider only credible and
relevant evidence. The owner and animal control officer shall have the
opportunity to present evidence and to be heard on the matter.
         (b)   The determination that a dog or animal is potentially dangerous
shall be made by the concurrence of a majority of all members elected to the
Board, and notification shall be sent to the owner in writing within ten days
of a meeting.
         (c)   During the procedure described in this division (B)(2), a dog or
animal declared as potentially dangerous may be impounded pursuant to §§
92.14 and
92.28 at the owners expense or, if the animal control officer is assured by the
owner’s signed agreement of proper confinement and safeguards and that the dog
has a current rabies vaccination and license, the dog may be released to its
owner pending a final decision.
   (C)   Certification.
      (1)   The owner or harborer of a dog which has been declared as a
potentially dangerous dog shall immediately apply for a “certificate of
registration of a potentially dangerous dog” from the Village Board. The
certificate of registration shall be issued by the Village Board upon the
payment in an amount as established by the village by resolution if the owner
presents sufficient evidence of a “proper enclosure,” a photograph of the dog,
liability insurance that the owner or harborer is insured for damages that
might be caused by the dog in no less than $100,000 and other requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   It is prohibited for the owner or harborer of a potentially dog to
not obtain a certificate of registration within five days after said animal is
declared “potentially dangerous.” A violation of this requirement results in
the animal being impounded until compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Proper enclosure. It is unlawful for an owner of a potentially
dangerous dog to permit the dog to be outside the proper enclosure unless the
dog is muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash and under
physical restraint of a responsible person. The muzzle shall be made in a
manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or
respiration but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
   (E)   Impoundment of potentially dangerous dogs and animals. Any potentially
dangerous dog or animal which is:
      (1)   Not validly registered under this section;
      (2)   Not maintained in the proper enclosure;
      (3)   Outside the dwelling of the owner or outside of the proper
enclosure and not under physical restraint of the responsible person; and/or
      (4)   Not covered by liability insurance coverage or a surety bond as
required by this section.
   (F)   Destruction of dangerous animals or potentially dangerous dogs. If the
court finds that a dog is a potentially dangerous dog as defined in this
section, the court may, in addition to the usual judgment of conviction, order
that the dog be humanely killed. Upon a finding by the court that a dog is a
dangerous dog as defined herein, or other dangerous animal, the court shall, in
addition to the usual judgment of conviction order that the dog or other animal
be humanely killed.
(Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Dangerous dogs, see Neb. RS 54-617 through 54-624
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Unless stated otherwise in the specific section, violators of any
sections of this chapter shall be charged with a misdemeanor and fined in an
amount as established by the village by resolution.
   (C)   Any person or owner as defined herein who violates any provision of §
92.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
unless otherwise specified in this chapter or by statute, the penalty for such
violation shall be in an amount as established by the village by resolution in
the discretion of the court.
   (D)   Any person found to have violated §
92.30 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided for in
§
92.14.
(Ord. 631, passed 2-27-2019; Ord. 657, passed 6-22-2022)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fires
   
93.01   Removal of property
   
93.02   Disorderly spectator
   
93.03   Equipment
   
93.04   Interference
   
93.05   Obstruction
   
93.06   Assistance
   
93.07   Driving over hose
   
93.08   False alarm
   
93.09   Traffic
   
93.10   Pedestrians
   
93.11   Fire hydrants
Fire Prevention
   
93.25   Fire Prevention Code
   
93.26   Fire Code enforcement
   
93.27   Fire prohibited
   
93.28   Open burning ban
   
93.29   Fire limits
   
93.30   Removal or repair required
Hazardous Materials and Explosives
   
93.45   Poisonous and flammable substances
   
93.46   Explosives; blasting permits
Fireworks
   
93.60   Definition
   
93.61   Time limits
   
93.62   Prohibited acts
   
93.63   Permit for public display required
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIRES
§ 93.01 REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or any officer in charge of the Fire Department shall
have the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any
building, structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire. The Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be blown
up, with explosives, any building or structure during the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 93.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for
a period of 36 hours after its being extinguished to hinder, resist or refuse
to obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of their official duties.
(Neb. RS 29-908) (Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any fire trucks and other apparatus
belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or obstruct the Municipal Fire
Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance of their duty.
(Neb. RS 29-908) (Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant or
have any material within 15 feet of said hydrant. Any vehicle or material found
to have an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief or any
member of the Fire Department at the risk, cost and expense of the owner or
claimant.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) (Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without consent of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, to drive any vehicle over the unprotected hose of the
Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 60-6,184) (Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause to raise any false alarm of fire.
(Neb. RS 28-907) (Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(Neb. RS 60-6,183) (Prior Code, § 7-109)
§ 93.10 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks have completely
passed.
(Neb. RS 28-908) (Prior Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief, members of the
Municipal Fire Department or person authorized by the Village Clerk-Treasurer
or Village Board of Trustees to molest, destroy, handle, tamper with, use or
remove water from any fire hydrant located within the corporate limits of this
village.
(Prior Code, § 7-111) (Ord. 224, passed 7-9-1979) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.25 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this subchapter as though spread at large herein,
together with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies of the Fire
Prevention Code shall be on file with the Clerk-Treasurer and shall be
available for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902 and 81-502
§ 93.26 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions, and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 93.27 FIRE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out a fire on the pavement or
near any curb not built or hereafter to be built within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-203) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 OPEN BURNING BAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to build or set out any bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land. The Fire Chief of the Fire
Department or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban for an area
under his or her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person
requesting permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire
Chief to a person desiring to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the
Fire Chief to a person desiring to conduct an open burn shall be in writing and
signed by the Fire Chief on a form prescribed by the State Fire Marshal. The
State Fire Marshal shall provide local fire departments with the forms. The
Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open burning ban in his or her
district when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone burning in such
district when the open burning ban has been waived must notify the Fire
Department of his or her intention to burn. It shall be unlawful for any person
to set fire to, burn or cause to be burned any garbage, animal matter or
vegetable matter. Fires set while in possession of a burning permit or at a
time the open burning ban has been waived shall at all times be attended by the
person setting the fire, and said fire shall be located at least 20 feet from
any building.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn rubbish of any kind,
including paper, paper goods, cardboard or leaves, anywhere in the municipality
except in a stove, furnace or incinerator inside a building. It is further
unlawful to burn off any leaves or vegetation from any garden or areas in the
municipality. This section shall not prohibit backyard barbecuing or wood
stoves or fireplaces.
(Neb. RS 81-520) (Prior Code, § 7-204) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.29 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Rebuilding and remodeling.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep on file and provide to those
requesting the boundaries of the municipal fire limits if any such fire limit
is created.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, re-build or remodel
upon any lot within the fire limits of the municipality a building or buildings
unless the same shall be constructed of fireproof material, i.e., brick, stone,
cement, steel or a material approved by the State Fire Marshal.
      (3)   No building shall be erected within the fire limits of the
municipality until an application for a permit has been made to the Board of
Trustees and the permit granted.
      (4)   Wooden buildings shall not be repaired to the extent of a new roof,
foundation or under sills, and no repairs of any kind shall be made on any such
building without the consent of the Board of Trustees.
      (5)   No wooden building shall be moved into the fire limits or moved
from one lot to another within the fire limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
   (B)   Fire limits defined. The fire limits for the village will be defined
as set forth by the county.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 93.30 REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged or out
of repair by fire, dilapidation, vandalism or act of God, it shall be the duty
of the owner, lessee or occupant to remove or repair said building in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow a building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any
such building shall be removed or repaired within 180 days or longer with the
permission of the governing body after receiving notice to do so by the
governing body.
(Neb. RS 17-550) (Prior Code, § 7-207) Penalty, see §
93.99
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 93.45 POISONOUS AND FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep in the village for
any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable liquids and gases
including anhydrous ammonia, except liquid petroleum, or add to, enlarge or
replace any facility used for the storage of such substances, must first get
permission from the governing body. The governing body shall require the name
of the gas and the place of storage.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
§ 93.46 EXPLOSIVES; BLASTING PERMITS.
   Any person wishing to discharge high explosives within the municipality must
secure a permit from the governing body and shall discharge such explosives in
conformance with its direction and under its supervision, and in no case shall
any person perform blasting operations unless operating under the direct
supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit issued by the
State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 7-501) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556 and 28-1229
FIREWORKS
§ 93.60 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation and which
meets the definition “common or special fireworks” set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R.
(Neb. RS 28-1241) (Prior Code, § 7-401)
§ 93.61 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge fireworks within the
corporate limits of the municipality at any time except the period from June 25
through and including July 3 of each year, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m., and on July 4 of each year, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:
59 p.m. unless an individual obtains a permit consistent with the conditions
contained herein. The discharge of fireworks at any other time is hereby
designated a nuisance to be controlled and abated.
   (B)   Any person desiring to have or hold a fireworks display within the
corporate limits of the municipality any time except the period from June 25
through and including July 3 of each year, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m., and on July 4 of each year, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:
59 p.m. shall file with the Village Clerk-Treasurer an application in writing
for a permit therefor, which application shall set forth and specifically
designate the place where such fireworks display is to be held, the kind and
quantity of fireworks to be used, the date and time thereof and the name of the
person who will be in charge of such public fireworks display. The Village
Clerk-Treasurer may thereupon issue or refuse to issue such a permit. The
Village Clerk-Treasurer shall contact the Village Fire Chief for approval prior
to the issuance of any permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-402) (Ord. 652, passed 9-9-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 93.62 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Throwing at people and livestock prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or propel fireworks
at, near or in the direction of people and any livestock within the corporate
limits of the municipality. It shall be unlawful to throw or propel fireworks
into any street of the municipality while the street is being used for a public
parade or is crowded with people or livestock for any reason.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge fireworks within
the municipal rodeo grounds while a rodeo or any other form of entertainment is
being performed. Throwing fireworks in the vicinity of people or livestock,
throwing fireworks into a street during a parade or other gathering, or
discharging fireworks within the rodeo grounds during any performance therein
are each hereby designated a nuisance to be controlled and abated.
(Prior Code, § 7-403)
   (B)   Discharge in public parks prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to discharge, set off or burn any fireworks in the public parks of the
municipality, or to discharge or throw fireworks into such park from any
adjacent land, street or highway. The discharge of fireworks in the public
parks of the municipality is hereby designated a nuisance to be controlled and
abated.
(Prior Code, § 7-404)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 93.63 PERMIT FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to have or hold a public fireworks display within the
corporate limits of the municipality shall file with the Village Clerk-
Treasurer an application in writing for a permit therefor, which application
shall set forth and specifically designate the place where such public
fireworks display is to be held, the kind and quantity of fireworks to be used,
the date and time thereof and the name of the person who will be in charge of
such public fireworks display. The Village Clerk-Treasurer may thereupon issue
or refuse to issue such a permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-405)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of the chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-601)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §
93.11 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new violation shall be
deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of a continuing violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-111)
(Ord. 224, passed 7-9-1979)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
      
114.   RAILROADS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Amounts
   
110.02   Due and payable
   
110.03   Certificates
   
110.04   Failure to pay
   
110.05   Pro rata payment
   
110.06   Fire insurance premiums
Specific Businesses
   
110.20   Tobacco licenses
   
110.21   Fireworks vendors
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 AMOUNTS.
   The governing body shall have the power to raise revenue by levying and
collecting a license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the
municipality and regulate the same. All such taxes shall be uniform in respect
to the classes upon which they are imposed; provided, that all scientific and
literary lectures and entertainments shall be exempt from such taxation, as
well as other concerts and other musical entertainments given exclusively by
the citizens of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 10-701)
§ 110.02 DUE AND PAYABLE.
   All occupation taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except
in the event that said tax is levied daily, unless another time is specifically
provided upon the payment thereof by any person or persons to the Clerk-
Treasurer, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give a receipt properly dated and
specifying the person paying said tax and the amount paid. The revenue
collected shall then be immediately deposited into the General Fund by the
Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all
revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein mentioned
shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each party in the
transaction.
(Prior Code, § 10-702)
§ 110.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of the occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. Said certificate shall specify the amount of the
tax and the name of the person and business that paid said tax. The occupation
tax certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such
a way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-703)
§ 110.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided herein on the day it becomes due and payable, the
municipality shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due. All
delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-704)
§ 110.05 PRO RATA PAYMENT.
   The amount of tax herein levied and imposed shall be for the period of one
year. No occupation tax in an amount less than the sum provided for a yearly
period shall be accepted regardless of the time within the taxing period when
such business is commenced.
(Prior Code, § 10-705)
§ 110.06 FIRE INSURANCE PREMIUMS.
   For the use, support and maintenance of the Municipal Fire Department, all
revenue paid from the occupation tax on fire insurance companies shall be
transferred to the Fire Department Fund.
(Neb. RS 35-106) (Prior Code, § 10-706)
SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
§ 110.20 TOBACCO LICENSES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership or corporation to
sell, keep for sale or give away in the course of trade any cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes or cigarette material to anyone without first obtaining a license
from the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The applicant shall file a written application stating the name of
the applicant, exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with
such application a license fee in the amount as stated in
Ch. 37. The license shall then be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer and the license
fee transferred to the local school district.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
   (B)   For sale; application; contents; fee. Every person, partnership,
limited liability company or corporation desiring a license to sell tobacco at
retail shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a written application, on forms
provided by the municipality, stating the name of the person, partnership,
limited liability company or corporation for whom the license is desired and
the exact location of the place of business and shall deposit with the
application a license fee, the amount which is on file in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer. If the applicant is an individual, the application shall
include the applicant’s Social Security number.
(Prior Code, § 10-302)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1421 through 28-1429
§ 110.21 FIREWORKS VENDORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell fireworks of
any description whatsoever, except sparklers, Vesuvius mountains, spray
fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet-type color aerial shells
without explosive charges for the purpose of making a noise, color wheels, toy
cap pistols and permissible caps may be sold at retail at all times; provided,
that all other fireworks named may be sold only between June 24 and July 15;
that fireworks of any description are permissible for proposes of pubic
exhibitions or displays as authorized by the governing body; and, further, that
said vendor shall secure a license prior to such sales.
   (B)   Application shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer upon forms
supplied by the municipality and requesting such information and documents as
the governing body may deem necessary as to whether or not to grant said
license. Upon the determination to grant the license, the governing body shall
direct the Clerk-Treasurer to collect the appropriate fee and issue said
license. Any license so issued may be revoked at any time by the governing body
upon proper notice and hearing if one is requested by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 10-603) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-137 and 28-1241 through 28-1252
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Public dances
Games of Chance and Lotteries
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   Occupation tax required
   
111.17   License; applications; display; fee
   
111.18   Exceptions
   
111.19   Lottery participation; restrictions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PUBLIC DANCES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC DANCE. Includes any dance, rock festival, masquerade or ball given
or conducted for which a fee, contribution or collection for purposes of
admission is charged; provided, that the term shall not be construed to include
dances, music festivals, masquerades or balls to which admission is limited
strictly to persons expressly invited by the person, organization or society
giving or holding such dance, masquerade or ball and which is not given or
conducted designedly for profit or gain so such person, organization or society
giving or conducting the same and, provided further, that the provisions herein
shall not apply to any dance conducted under the supervision and direction of
the governing body of any school district within the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 10-501)
   (B)   Supervision.
      (1)   The municipal law enforcement shall be permitted to enter any
public dance for the purpose of inspection at any time. The governing body is
hereby empowered to appoint or designate a chaperone or inspector to be present
at any and all public dances conducted within the municipality. The chaperone
or inspector shall take the oath required of the municipal law enforcement and
shall have all the powers and duties conferred upon regularly appointed police.
It shall be the duty of said chaperone or inspector to enforce the provisions
herein. Said chaperone or inspector may call upon any police officer or the
person or persons conducting said dance for assistance in ejecting any person
form the dance if that person is offending against the decent and peaceful
proprieties of a social gathering.
      (2)   The chaperone or inspector so appointed shall be entitled to charge
for his or her services at each dance and shall receive such fee as the
governing body shall, by motion, designate. Said fee shall be paid by the
person or persons conducting the public dance prior to the opening of said
public dance. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons conducting a
public dance to begin said dance until a chaperone or inspector is present
unless the governing body waives the right to make such an appointment. Said
chaperone or inspector shall make a written report to the governing body
concerning each dance attended.
      (3)   The governing body may, in its discretion, designate one or more
additional peace officers to work with the chaperone or inspector during the
hours of the public dance, and the compensation of any additional peace officer
so appointed shall be equal to and paid in the same manner as the chaperone or
inspector’s compensation.
(Prior Code, § 10-502)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-207
GAMES OF CHANCE AND LOTTERIES
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who engages in the business of selling, leasing or
delivering possession or custody of gambling devices for consideration to a
person engaged in the occupation of conducting games of chance and/or
lotteries.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any and all machines or devices used by a person engaged in
the occupation of conducting games of chance and/or lotteries.
   GAMES OF CHANCE AND/OR LOTTERIES. Forms of gambling authorized by the state
pursuant to Article 3, § 24 of the Constitution of the state.
   PERSON ENGAGED IN THE OCCUPATION OF CONDUCTING GAMES OF CHANCE AND/OR
LOTTERIES. Any person who operates, owns or is the lessee of a place of
business where any game of chance and/or lottery activity is conducted, whether
or not any other type of business is conducted on the premises; or, any person
who either directly controls or manages the games of chance and/or lotteries,
or owns any machine or device used to engage in the occupation of games of
chance and/or lotteries, but does not sell, lease or deliver possession or
custody of such a device to other persons.
(Prior Code, § 10-503)
§ 111.16 OCCUPATION TAX REQUIRED.
   (A)   Occupation tax. An occupation tax is hereby imposed on each person
engaged in the occupation of conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the village. Every person conducting games of chance and lottery
activities within the village shall pay the tax in the amount and manner
specified in division (C) below.
(Prior Code, § 10-504)
   (B)   Amount of occupation tax for persons engaged in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and lotteries. The occupation tax for each person
engaging in the occupation of conducting games of chance and lottery activities
within the village shall be 5% of the gross receipts received by said person in
each quarter of the calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 10-505)
   (C)   Amount of occupation tax for distributor. The occupation tax for
engaging in the occupation of distributing gambling devices within the village
shall be 5% of the gross receipts received by a distributor in each quarter of
the year.
(Prior Code, § 10-506)
§ 111.17 LICENSE; APPLICATIONS; DISPLAY; FEE.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
occupations for conducting games of chance or lottery activities without first
obtaining a license to do so.
(Prior Code, § 10-507)
   (B)   License applications. Every person desiring a license required by the
provisions of this subchapter shall make application to the Clerk-Treasurer.
Accompanying each application shall be:
      (1)   A sworn statement by each designated supervising member that such
member will be responsible for compliance with rules and regulations for each
occasion of games of chance and/or lotteries that he or she supervises; and
      (2)   A sworn statement by the member designated as responsible for the
proper utilization of gross receipts that no commission, fee, rent, seller
profits, compensation, reward or recompense will be paid to any person or
organization not sanctioned by the laws of the state and the village and that
such profits will be spent for a lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 10-508)
   (C)   Display of license. Every license issued under the provisions of this
section shall be conspicuously displayed at the place where the games of chance
and/or lottery activity is conducted at all times during the conduct thereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-509)
   (D)   License fee. The license fee for engaging in the occupation of
conducting games of chance and lotteries within the village is on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer for each location wherein such activity is
conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-510)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.18 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nonprofit organizations that desire to participate in games of chance and/or
lotteries, that are in compliance with the Small Lotteries and Raffles Act,
being Neb. RS 9-501 et seq. of the state, are exempt from the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-511)
§ 111.19 LOTTERY PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of ages shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the municipality.
   (B)   No owner or officer of a lottery operator with whom the municipality
contracts to conduct its lottery shall play the lottery conducted by the
municipality. No owner or officer of an authorized sales outlet location for
the municipality shall play in the lottery conducted by the municipality. No
employee or agent of the municipality, lottery operator or authorized sales
outlet location shall play the lottery of the municipality for which he or she
performs work during such time as he or she is actually working at such lottery
or while on duty.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the governing body, a municipal
official or the immediate family of such member or official from playing the
lottery conducted by the municipality as long as such person is 19 years of age
or older.
   (D)   No person or employee or agent of any person or the municipality shall
knowingly permit an individual under 19 years of age to play or participate in
any way in the lottery conducted by the municipality.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY OF A MEMBER OF THE
GOVERNING BODY OR A MUNICIPAL OFFICIAL means a person who is related to the
member or official by blood, marriage or adoption and resides in the same
household or a person who is claimed by the member or official, or the spouse
of the member or official, as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 9-646) (Prior Code, § 10-801) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
112.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
112.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses
   
112.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
112.16   Licensee requirements
   
112.17   Licenses; village powers and duties
   
112.18   License renewal; village powers and duties
   
112.19   Catering licenses
   
112.20   Display of license
   
112.21   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
112.22   Employer liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
Retail Establishments
   
112.35   Location
   
112.36   Access to dwellings
   
112.37   Sanitary conditions
   
112.38   Credit sales prohibited
   
112.39   Spiking beer
   
112.40   Original package
   
112.41   Hours of sale
   
112.42   Hiring minors
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.42 shall be used.
§ 112.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any bottle club,
dance hall, restaurant, café or club or any place open to the general public
except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act.
This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while lawfully engaged in
the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or buses operated under
Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and in the judgment of the
officer dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT. Has the same meaning as in Neb. RS
71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or village-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSES
§ 112.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person
from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the product thereof, by simple
fermentation and without distillation, if made solely for the use of the maker
and his or her family and guests;
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor pursuant Neb. RS Ch. 28, art. 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or 12, or
any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state, except
that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May 18,
1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act,
being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 112.17 LICENSES; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
the business of all retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the village.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the State Liquor Control Commission notice and a copy
of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft
brewery license or a microdistillery license, the Board of Trustees may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to licenses within the corporate
limits of the village, has the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, being
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq. to determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule
or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act or any ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation adopted by the Board of Trustees has been or is
being violated, and at that time examine the premises of the licensee in
connection with such determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines
that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated
pursuant to the Act or any ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation adopted by
the local governing body has been or is being violated shall report such
violation in writing to the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act or any ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the Village Clerk-
Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the Board of
Trustees may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in § 111.30, it determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS
53-101 et seq. or any valid and subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation duly enacted, adopted and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor.
The order of cancellation or revocation may be appealed to the Commission
within 30 days after the date of the order by filing a notice of appeal with
the Commission. The Commission shall handle the appeal in the manner provided
for hearing on an application in Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the Board of Trustees shall receive evidence, either orally or
by affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the
propriety of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the village, one time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the
time of the hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a
statement that all persons desiring to give evidence before the Board of
Trustees in support of or in protest against the issuance of the license may do
so at the time of the hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days
after the date of receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the
hearing the Board of Trustees shall cause to be recorded in the minute record
of its proceedings a resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the
license. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall mail to the Commission by first
class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the resolution which shall state the
cost of the published notice, except that failure to comply with this provision
shall not void any license issued by the Commission. If the Commission refuses
to issue such a license, the cost of publication of notice shall be paid by the
Commission from the security for costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and 53-129;
and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the Village Clerk-Treasurer a retail, craft brewery or microdistillery license
issued or renewed by the Commission, the Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver the
license to the licensee upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the Village Clerk-Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the Board of
Trustees upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the village, except that
Class J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
village shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm
or corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-
101 et seq. and doing business within the corporate limits of the village in
any sum which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be
paid under the Act to obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 112.18 LICENSE RENEWAL; VILLAGE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the Board of Trustees to require the
licensee to submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises
located in an area which is annexed to the village shall file a formal
application for a license, and while the application is pending, the licensee
may continue all license privileges until the original license expires or is
canceled or revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the
annexation date of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the
Commission for not more than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall cause to be published in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, one time between January
10 and January 30 of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law
of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license and
each bottle club license within the village, except that notice of the right of
automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall be published between the dates of
July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written protests to the issuance of
automatic renewal of a license are filed in the office of the Village Clerk-
Treasurer by three or more residents of the village on or before February 10,
or August 10 for Class C licenses, the Board of Trustees shall hold a hearing
to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed. Upon the
conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the Board of Trustees may
request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 112.19 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the Board of Trustees shall
process the application in the same manner as provided in §
112.17.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may impose an occupation tax on the business of
a catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of
the Board of Trustees. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a
catering license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 112.20 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq. or any village ordinance, that owner, agent or other person shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 EMPLOYER LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, being Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
or any village ordinance by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made with the
authorization, knowledge or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held
to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall
be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
112.99
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.35 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply to
any location within such distance of 150 feet:
      (1)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic
liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so
exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   Unless otherwise exempted by Neb. RS 53-177.01, no alcoholic liquor,
other than beer, shall be sold for consumption on the premises within 300 feet
from the campus of any college or university within the village, and no bottle
club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of any college, except
that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   State commission may waive 300-feet requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 112.36 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public.
   (B)   This section does not prevent any connection between the premises and
such other portion of the building or structure which is used only by the
licensee, his or her family or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.37 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the Board of Trustees or the village
police may make or cause to be made. All applications for liquor licenses shall
be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report
concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the
application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 112.38 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.39 SPIKING BEER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own, manage or lease any
premises in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed to serve or offer
for sale any beer to which there has been added any alcohol or permit any
person or persons to add alcohol to any beer on the licensed premises of such
licensee.
(Neb. RS 53-172) (Prior Code, § 10-118) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.40 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill, in
whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or any
other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles, casks or other
containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original packages. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic
liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.41 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFF-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold at retail in the original container
for consumption off the premises of the licensed establishment.
      ON-SALE. Alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption on the
premises of the licensed establishment.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be lawful for any licensed person or persons to sell at
retail any alcoholic beverages during the hours that the polls are open on the
day in which any local, county or statewide primary or general election is
conducted.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any licensed person or persons or their
agents to sell any alcoholic beverages within the municipality except during
the hours provided herein; provided, that such limitations shall not apply
after 12:00 p.m. on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and
the holder of a Class C license or a Class I license.
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
Hours of Sale
Alcoholic Liquors (except beer and wine)
Secular days
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Sundays
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Beer and Wine
Secular days
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Sundays
On-sale  6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Off-sale 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
 
      (3)   Notwithstanding, the sale of on-sale alcoholic liquors, beer and
wine shall be allowed until 2:00 a.m. upon prior approval of the Village Board
by request of the establishment as approved by the Board of Trustees by
resolution.
   (C)   No person or persons shall consume any alcoholic beverages on licensed
premises for a period of time longer than 15 minutes after the time fixed
herein for stopping the sale of alcoholic beverages on said premises.
(Ord. 553, passed 5-25-2011; Ord. 659, passed 6-8-2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-179
§ 112.42 HIRING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hire a minor regardless of sex under
the age of 19 years to serve or dispense alcoholic liquors, including beer, to
said licensee’s customers.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) (Prior Code, § 10-125) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-901)
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Sales and solicitation permit
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
113.15   Permit required
   
113.16   Revocation of permit
   
113.17   Hours
   
113.18   Display of permit
   
113.19   Exceptions
   
113.20   Mobile food vendors
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked or processed edible substance, beverage, ingredient,
ice or water used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human
consumption.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. A person who by traveling from place to place upon the
public ways who sells or offers for sale food from public or private property
to consumers for immediate delivery and consumption upon purchase. MOBILE FOOD
VENDOR and mobile food unit shall have the same meaning pursuant to this
definition. The following activities are excluded from such definition, and,
alone, do not subject a vendor to being covered by such definition: the sale or
offer for sale of farm products produced or raised by such a vendor from land
occupied and cultivated by him or her.
   PEDDLER. An uninvited person offering products for immediate sale and
delivery.
   PRODUCTS. All goods, chattels, wares, merchandise, food and services of any
kind whatsoever.
   SOLICITOR. An uninvited person offering products for future delivery or
seeking donations in return for products.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 113.02 SALES AND SOLICITATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Application. Application for a village sales and solicitation permit
shall be made between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday, excluding holidays, to the village office, on a form furnished by the
village. Incomplete applications shall be rejected. Convicted felons and
persons convicted of crimes involving dishonesty or moral turpitude shall not
be issued a permit.
   (B)   Fee; permit. There is a $25 fee required at the time of application
for each individual peddler or solicitor. The Village Clerk-Treasurer shall
review the information on the application and if found to be proper, issue a
permit no later than seven days following the application for the permit.
Mobile food vendors who receive an annual sales and solicitation permit
pursuant to §
113.19 shall pay a fee of $25 which shall be good for one year from issuance.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-11-2023)
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 113.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   All peddlers and solicitors, other than persons exempted by §
113.19, shall be required to obtain a village sales and solicitation permit
prior to making sales or solicitations within the village. Sales and
solicitations permits shall be valid for 30 days and shall be issued by the
Village Clerk-Treasurer upon compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 113.16 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A sales and solicitation permit may be revoked by the Village Clerk-
Treasurer for the following reasons:
      (1)   Complaints of high pressure sales;
      (2)   Providing incomplete or false information about their company or
their sales agent, supervisors, products or services;
      (3)   After hours operation violations;
      (4)   Indicating a fictitious affiliation with groups or companies;
      (5)   Enter upon any private premises when the same is posted with a sign
stating “No Peddlers Allowed,” “No Solicitation Allowed” or other words to the
effect of disallowing sales at the private premises;
      (6)   Conviction of a felony or other crime involving dishonesty or moral
turpitude;
      (7)   Improper transfer of a permit; or
      (8)   Other solicitor misconduct as determined by the County Sheriff’s
Department.
   (B)   A denial or revocation of a sales and solicitation permit may be
appealed to the Board of Trustees within ten days of such revocation. Such
appeal must be in writing and shall be considered and decided by the Board of
Trustees within 30 days. The Board may consider such appeals at any regular or
specially called meeting, and may conduct a hearing according to such rules the
Board may establish.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 113.17 HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for an uninvited peddler or solicitor to visit any
house, dwelling or residence for the purpose of making sales or soliciting
order or donations before 8:00 a.m. or after sunset.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-11-2023) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Every peddler and solicitor must carry on his or her person and display the
sales and solicitation permit issued by the Village Clerk-Treasurer while
engaged in sales or solicitations. Sales and solicitation permits are not
transferable. Upon request from any person residing within the village upon who
the licensed peddler or solicitor is soliciting, the peddler or solicitor shall
provide a copy of the issued permit.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 113.19 EXCEPTIONS.
   Unpaid volunteers or other individuals who are not paid or otherwise
compensated to sell or solicit on behalf of a non-profit organization, such as
schools, scout troops, churches and other non-profits organizations, shall be
exempt from the requirements set forth in the chapter except for such
requirements identified in §
113.15. Organizations sponsoring or directing such sales or solicitations
shall, upon request, provide documentation of the non-profit status of the
organization. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to persons canvassing
residents within the village for religious, political or other non-commercial
purposes.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 113.20 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   Mobile food vendors shall provide the Village Clerk-Treasurer a copy of a
valid food permit issued by the state. A mobile food vendor may, in addition to
the 30-day permit established herein, apply for an annual sales and
solicitation permit for the sale of food.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-11-2023)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a minimum fine of $100 for the first offense, $250 for the second
offense and $500 for the third and successive offenses in any 24-hour period
with a maximum of $500 per offense and each day that maintenance of the same
continues shall constitute a separate offense. In addition, the individual’s
permit shall be revoked.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-11-2023)
CHAPTER 114: RAILROADS
Section
   
114.01   Safe crossings
   
114.02   Lighting
   
114.03   Obstructing traffic
   
114.04   Warning
   
114.05   Drainage
   
114.06   Obstructing view at crossings prohibited
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 SAFE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in or
traveling through the municipality to keep in a suitable and safe condition the
crossing and right-of-way in the municipality. If any such crossing shall at
any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe or inconvenient for public
travel, the governing body may by resolution call upon said company to make
whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition.
Notice of said resolution shall be served upon the local agent of said company.
   (B)   In the event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and
correct said condition as aforesaid within 30 days, neglect for each 24 hours
thereafter shall be deemed and is hereby made a separate and distinct offense
against the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-604) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating and
maintaining a railroad through the municipality to sufficiently light all
crossings and to install as many signal systems as the governing body shall
deem necessary at the expense of said company.
(Neb. RS 17-561) (Prior Code, § 10-605) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents or
servants operating a railroad through the municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street except in the event of any emergency for a longer period at
one time than five minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-552) (Prior Code, § 10-606) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 WARNING.
   It shall be the duty of every such railroad company, its agents or servants
to ring a bell continually or to sound a whistle while crossing the streets
within the corporate limits. When any such train shall be standing between
streets, it shall be unlawful for any such company or its servants in charge to
start or permit such train or engine to be started without first ringing a bell
or sounding a whistle for at least 15 seconds before starting.
(Prior Code, § 10-607) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any railroad company owning, maintaining or
operating a railroad within or through the corporate limits to construct and
keep in repair all ditches, drains and culverts along and under its railroad
tracks at all places within the corporate limits where the same may be
necessary for the escape of water and the proper draining of the territory on
either side of the railroad right-of-way.
   (B)   If the railroad company should fail or neglect to construct or repair
the drain, ditch or culvert and to put the same in a proper condition for the
escape of water, the governing body shall by resolution order the railroad to
provide for the proper drainage of water on the right-of-way. A copy of the
resolution shall be served to the local agent for the railroad.
(Prior Code, § 10-608)
§ 114.06 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT CROSSINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to obstruct or obscure the
traveling public’s view by storing or parking any railroad car on a railroad
track within 40 feet of the crossing of any such railroad track and a public
road within the corporate limits of the municipality; provided, however, in no
instance shall any person who is authorized to control the movement of such
railroad car or cars within such distance be prevented from reasonably
conducting his or her business.
(Neb. RS 74-1323) (Prior Code, § 10-609) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure or neglect by the railroad to correct the drainage within 14
days shall constitute a separate and distinct misdemeanor for each 24-hour
period thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 10-608)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal trespass
   
130.02   Electrical interference
   
130.03   Injury to trees
   
130.04   Trash
   
130.05   Posted advertisements
   
130.06   Posting
   
130.07   Snow accumulation on public ways
   
130.08   Hunting and trapping prohibited on village property
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if he or she,
knowing that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, enters or
remains in any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means an
aircraft, including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the
aircraft.
      (4)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(5) below.
      (5)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating or causing to be operated any motor, sign or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference; provided, that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use
of necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference
cannot be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or
causes to be operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually
with radio and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.03 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
Board of Trustees to do so, and the written permit of the Board of Trustees in
accordance with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the
only lawful authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 TRASH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously or
negligently place or throw upon the premises of another, including any public
property, any filth, garbage, leaves, papers or other matter to the annoyance
of the owner or occupant thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not a resident of the
municipality to deposit or place trash, garbage, filth, leaves or other matter
in trash receptacles located within the municipality with the results being
that such trash, garbage or other items are ultimately removed and trucked or
taken to a landfill site by municipal employees or agents to the municipality.
   (C)   It shall also be unlawful for any person residing within the
municipality to allow nonresidents of the municipality to deposit or place
trash, garbage, filth, leaves, papers or other matter in trash receptacles
located within the municipality, belonging to the municipality or agents of the
municipality, or to the municipal residents, with the ultimate result being
that such trash, garbage or other items are removed and trucked or taken to a
landfill site by municipal employees or agents of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-303) (Ord. 646, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 POSTED ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully and maliciously tear,
deface, remove or cover up the posted advertisement or bill of any person, firm
or corporation when said bill or advertisement is rightfully posted and the
same remains of value.
(Prior Code, § 6-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks or public
grounds of the village for signs, signposts or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without written permission of the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 SNOW ACCUMULATION ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit snow which has been removed from private
property on any sidewalk, alley, street or other public ways within the
village, or to place said snow in such a manner that it in any way blocks
pedestrians or motor vehicle traffic or impairs the visibility of pedestrians
or motor vehicle traffic on any sidewalk, alley, street or other public ways
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-326) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 HUNTING AND TRAPPING PROHIBITED ON VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to hunt, trap or kill
any animal or bird on village-owned property. Any unauthorized individual is
hereby deemed to be a trespasser.
   (B)   The village may authorize government entities or individuals pursuant
to an affirmative finding of the Village Board as identified herein.
   (C)   No individual Trustee or employee of the village shall have authority
to provide authorization for hunting or trapping on village-owned property.
   (D)   Upon an affirmative finding of necessity for hunting or trapping to
maintain the village-owned property, an affirmative vote of a majority of the
members shall be required to allow an exception to this provision.
(Ord. 617, passed 10-11-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Curfew for minors
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
   
131.06   Removing dirt
   
131.07   False reporting
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 17
years to ride in or operate any vehicle upon any street, alley or other public
place, or to loiter, congregate or remain upon any street, alley or other
public place between the hours of 12:00 a.m. of any day and 5:00 a.m. of the
following day unless:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care, custody or control of the minor; or accompanied by an adult authorized by
a parent, guardian or other adult having the care or custody of such minor
person to take said persons place in accompanying said minor for a designated
period of time and for purpose;
      (2)   The minor person is engaged in lawful employment;
      (3)   The minor person is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business
as directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care or custody of such minor person;
      (4)   The minor person is upon the sidewalk or property where minor
resides;
      (5)   The minor person is with parental consent engaged in normal
interstate travel through the village; or
      (6)   The minor is married or emancipated.
   (B)   School, church, public entertainment or other special function. When
activities of the kind normally attended by minors, such as a movie, play or
sporting event or any such activity of a kind normally attended by minors under
the age of 17 years, terminates after or less than one hour prior to 12:00
a.m., the curfew shall commence one hour after termination of such activity.
Whenever it is known in advance that such minor must be out beyond the curfew
hour for one of the exceptions listed in this section, the parent or employer,
whichever is applicable, shall provide the minor with written permission for
the minor to be out beyond the curfew hour.
   (C)   Responsibility of parent or guardian. It shall be unlawful for the
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor
under the age of 17 years to allow or permit such minor person to do any of the
things or acts prohibited by this section.
   (D)   Custody. Any minor child taken into custody for a violation of this
section shall be taken to the County Sheriff’s office and the parent, guardian
or legal custodian shall be notified to come to the County Sheriff’s office and
take personal charge of the minor child. The minor child shall be released only
to such parent, guardian or legal custodian or to juvenile authorities if such
parent, guardian or legal custodian state that the minor child cannot be
controlled or if said individuals cannot be located.
   (E)   Proceedings against minors or parent or guardian. No minor child
arrested under the provisions of this section shall be incarcerated until he or
she has been taken home, parents, guardians or legal custodians have been
notified and the arresting officer has ascertained whether or not such minor
person is within the control of his or her parents, guardian or legal
custodian. If such parent, guardian or legal custodian states that such minor
cannot be controlled by him or her, the minor may be proceeded against.
(Prior Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 REMOVING DIRT.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to remove, disturb or take
away from any street, alley or public ground any dirt, earth, stones or other
material forming a part of such street, alley or public grounds without first
having obtained written permission to do so by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 6-316) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or property are in
jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service or other person or
governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or any
personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any minor under the age of 17 years violating the provisions of §
131.02 shall be dealt with in accordance with the Juvenile Court of the state
and procedure thereunder. Any other persons convicted of violating the
provisions of §
131.02 shall be punished by a monetary fine of not more than $100 for the first
offense; not more than $200 for the second offense; and not more than $500 for
each subsequent offense thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 6-325)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Appliances in yard
   
132.02   Prohibited fences
   
132.03   Weed removal
   
132.04   Firecrackers
Substance Offenses
   
132.15   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
   
132.16   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
132.17   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
132.30   Abandoned automobiles
   
132.31   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
132.32   Enforcement and impounding
Weapons Offenses
   
132.45   Discharge of firearms
   
132.46   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
Sex Offender Registry
   
132.60   Definitions
   
132.61   Prohibited location of residence
   
132.62   Measure of distance
   
132.63   Exceptions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 132.02 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits, where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street or alley.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 132.03 WEED REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of every owner of real estate in the
municipality to cut and clear such real estate, together with one-half of the
street and alleys abutting thereon, of all weeds and worthless vegetation that
are noxious, obstruct travel on public ways or create a fire hazard. Subsequent
to the cutting of said weeds, all loose vegetation shall be immediately
removed. Upon failure of the owner, lessee or occupant having control of any
such real estate to cut and clear said weeds and worthless vegetation, the
Village Utilities Superintendent shall serve notice on said owner, lessee or
occupant to do so.
      (2)   In the event that the weeds and vegetation have not been removed
after a period of five days, the Utilities Superintendent may cause the same to
be done, and the costs thereof shall be chargeable to the property owner. If
the owner fails to reimburse the municipality after being properly billed, the
cost may be assessed against the real estate, the governing body shall have the
assessment certified to the County Treasurer and the same shall be collected in
the manner provided by law. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying
any special assessments against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the nonresident owner. The last known
address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such
required notice was first published.
   (B)   The village authorizes the County Treasurer to collect all special
assessments for the village and to deduct the statutory fees allowed for such
collection.
(Ord. 595, passed 10-8-2014; Ord. 596, passed 10-15-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563 and 18-1719
§ 132.04 FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever except sparklers,
Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making
noise, color wheels, lady fingers not exceeding seven-eighths inches in length
or one-eighth inch in diameter and which do not contain more than one-half
grain each in weight of explosive material.
(Neb. RS 28-1241) (Prior Code, § 6-309) Penalty, see §
132.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 132.15 USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke cigarettes or
cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative nicotine
products, or use tobacco in any form whatever, in this village, shall be guilty
of an offense. Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free
from prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the
person or persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.16 SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give or furnish in any way any tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic nicotine
delivery systems or alternative nicotine products, to any person under 21 years
of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) above, a person who is at least 15
years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with such division if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer or an intern with a state
or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
State Juvenile Code, being Neb. RS 43-245 et seq. and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with and
under the authority of this section shall not be in violation of Neb. RS 28-
1427.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.17 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this village.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
112.03 or division (D) below, it is unlawful for any person to consume an
alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this village; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this village.
   (D)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but not
drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party service
as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the state Public
Service Commission and subject to Neb. RS Ch. 75, art. 3. Such passengers may
possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume alcoholic beverages
while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or on any highway in
this village if:
      (1)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08) Penalty, see §
132.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 132.30 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act, being
Neb. RS 60-301 et seq. affixed thereto, for more than six hours on any public
property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property, if left initially without permission of the owner, or after
permission of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a village law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the village pursuant to a
village ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this division (A).
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or village-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $250 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the village. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the
village shall be issued at no cost to the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the village
shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The village shall notify the last registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the village 30 days after the date such
notice was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the village that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall
also be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
village:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the village
will retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the village may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned
vehicle. If the village has determined that the vehicle should be retained for
use, the village shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed,
publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an
announcement that the village intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its
use and that title will vest in the village 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a village law enforcement agency has custody of a motor
vehicle for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in
custody, it shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered
owners, if any, and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that
the vehicle is in the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle
is no longer needed for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days the
agency will dispose of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
(E) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A) above to be removed from public property in this village, the state agency
shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency caused an
abandoned vehicle described in division (A) above to be removed from public
property in this village, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the
village which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the village’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by the village
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
village, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the village or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the village or appropriate
state agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is
left unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates
affixed or which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the village for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 132.31 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the village,
other than village property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time; provided, that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the village.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
§ 132.32 ENFORCEMENT AND IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The village, by its agents, is hereby authorized to remove or have
removed any vehicle left within the corporate limits which reasonably appears
to be in violation of this subchapter or is lost or stolen or unclaimed. Such
vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance
with the laws of the state; provided, however, that any vehicle left at any
place other than on public property shall not be removed and impounded as
provided in this section until notice shall have been given that the village
shall remove the vehicle from the property after five days from the date of
notice.
      (2)   Such notice shall be given by any of the following methods:
         (a)   Affixing written notice on such vehicle;
         (b)   Sending notice by mail to the owner of such vehicle at his or
her last known address if the owner is reasonably ascertainable;
         (c)   By sending notice by mail to the person owning or occupying the
property on which such vehicle is located; or
         (d)   By notifying the owner of the vehicle or owner or occupant of
the property in person.
      (3)   Any Sheriff’s deputy or law enforcement officer may enter upon
private property at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting such
vehicle, posting notice thereon and removing and impounding such vehicle.
   (B)   Removal after notice.
      (1)   Upon the notice to remove, the owner of the vehicle and the owner
or occupant of the private property on which the same is located, either or all
of them, shall be responsible for its removal. In the event of removal and
disposition by the village, the owner or occupant of the private property where
the same is located shall be liable for the expenses incurred.
      (2)   If the violation described in the notice has not been remedied
within the 30-day period of compliance, the village law enforcement or his or
her designee shall have the right to take possession of said vehicle and remove
it from the premises. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder or refuse to allow such person or persons to enter upon private property
for the purpose of removing a vehicle under the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Valuation and title. If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of
abandonment has no number plates of the current year affixed and is of a
wholesale value, taking into consideration the condition of the vehicle, of
$250 or less, title shall immediately be vested in the village.
   (D)   Duties of law enforcement. Except for vehicles governed by division
(B) above, the law enforcement shall:
      (1)   Make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of such
vehicle;
      (2)   Notify the last registered owner, if any, that the vehicle in
question has been recovered as an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, it
will be sold at public auction after five days from the date such notice was
mailed. If such owner is notified that a lien or mortgage exists on said
vehicle, such notice shall also be sent to the lien holder or mortgagee;
      (3)   Proceed to obtain the title of the abandoned vehicle in the
village’s name, pursuant to Neb. RS 60-1903.
   (E)   Proceeds of sale; disposition. Any proceeds from the sale of an
abandoned vehicle, less any expenses incurred by the village shall be held by
the village without interest, for the benefit of the owner of such vehicle for
a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, such
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the village.
   (F)   Liability for removal. Neither the owner, lessee, nor occupant of the
premises from which any abandoned vehicle shall by removed nor the village
shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs during its
removal or while in possession of the village or its contractual agent, or as a
result of any subsequent disposition.
   (G)   Cost of removal and storage. The last registered owner of an abandoned
vehicle shall be liable to the village for the costs of removal and storage of
such vehicle.
   (H)   Redemption of impounded vehicles. The owner of any vehicle seized
under the provisions of this subchapter may redeem such vehicle at any time
after its removal but prior to the sale or destruction thereof upon proof of
ownership, presentment of a valid registration certificate, current license
plates and payment to the Sheriff of such sum as he or she may determine and
fix for the actual and reasonable expense of removal and any preliminary sale
advertising expenses, including a reasonable amount for storage for each
vehicle redeemed.
(Prior Code, § 6-321) (Ord. 460, passed 4-27-2005) Penalty, see §
132.99
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 132.45 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol or other
fowling piece within the village, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the Board of Trustees.
Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 132.46 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the village.
Penalty, see §
132.99
SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY
§ 132.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILDCARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Childcare Licensing
Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place which may include more than one
location and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location and may be mobile or transitory.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013 and
who has victimized a person 18 years and younger.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
§ 132.61 PROHIBITED LOCATION OF RESIDENCE.
   It is unlawful for any sexual predator to reside within 500 feet from a
school or childcare facility.
(Prior Code, § 6-402) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.62 MEASURE OF DISTANCE.
   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the distance
shall be measured by the following a straight line from the outer property line
of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of the school or childcare
facility.
(Prior Code, § 6-403)
§ 132.63 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to a sexual predator who;
   (A)   Resides within in a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
   (B)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006 and has not moved from that
residence; and/or
   (C)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
childcare facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial
date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 6-404)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of any provisions of §§
132.60 through
132.63 shall be a fine of not more than $500, and each day of violation shall
be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-405) (Ord. 466, passed 6-28-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOME COURTS AND TRAILER COURTS
      
152.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.01   Requirement
   
150.02   Limitation
   
150.03   Duplicate to County Assessor
Moving of Buildings
   
150.15   Regulations
   
150.16   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Definition
   
150.31   Prohibitions
   
150.32   Determination; notice
   
150.33   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.34   Emergency
   
150.35   Special assessments
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the Village Clerk-Treasurer an application for a building
permit. The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the
Village Clerk-Treasurer for that purpose. Every such application shall set
forth the legal description of the land upon which the construction or
relocation is to take place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal
dimensions, the estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect and
contractor, and such other information as may be requested thereon. The
application, plans and specifications so filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer
shall be checked and examined by the Board of Trustees, and if they are found
to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all other
ordinances applicable thereto, the Board of Trustees shall authorize the
Village Clerk-Treasurer to issue the applicant a permit upon payment of a
permit fee set by the Board by resolution. Whenever there is a discrepancy
between permit application procedures contained herein and those contained in
any building code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall
govern.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the village’s corporate limits or extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the
permit shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 9-104) (Ord. 456, passed 6-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1743
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure from outside the municipality and into the municipality
or from one location to another in the municipality without written permission
to do so. Application may be made to the Clerk-Treasurer and shall include the
present and future location of the structure to be moved, the proposed route,
the location of the building to be moved, the equipment to be used and such
other information as the governing body may require.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit with the application a fee in an amount as
established by the village by resolution, which shall be returned to the
applicant if the permit is denied. The application shall be accompanied by a
certificate issued by the County Treasurer to the effect that all the
provisions regulating the moving of buildings have been complied with on the
part of the owner of the real estate upon which said building is presently
located.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer may approve and issue the required permit;
provided, that a good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or cash in
the amount set by motion of the governing body and conditioned upon moving said
buildings without doing damage to any private or municipality property is filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer and all other requirements are made.
   (D)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move 15 feet
high or less.
   (E)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating said poles, wires or lines
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting said poles, wires or line relative to the building moving
operation. All expenses of said disconnection, removal or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless such disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in said company’s franchise.
   (F)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main pipe or wire belonging to the municipality, notice in
writing of the time and route of said building moving operation shall be given
to the various municipal officials in charge of the municipality utilities
departments who shall proceed on behalf of the municipality and at the expense
of the mover to make such disconnection and to do such work as is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 9-301) (Ord. 478, passed 2-14-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 39-6,177 through 39-6,180, 39-6,184 and 77-
1725
§ 150.16 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the Village Clerk-Treasurer as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from
the relocation and whether any village laws have been violated during the
operation.
   (B)   Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the Village Clerk-Treasurer shall return the corporate
surety bond, cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the
basement, foundation or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a
clean and sanitary condition, the Board of Trustees may apply the money
deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense of correcting the
conditions.
   (C)   If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater than
the amount of the deposit set by the Board of Trustees, the Board of Trustees
may recover the excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
150.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.32 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Board of Trustees or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the village is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk-Treasurer to post the
property accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in
the office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall also serve written notice upon the owner
and any occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or
personal service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
 
   “To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises), of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
 
   “You are hereby notified that _______________________________ (describe building)
on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe building and a
nuisance after inspection by ________________________________. The causes for this
decision are ________________________ (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
 
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the
date of receipt of this notice or the village will proceed to do so. Appeal of this
determination may be made to the Board of Trustees, acting as the Board of Appeals,
by filing with the Village Clerk-Treasurer within ten days from the date of receipt
of this notice a request for a hearing.”
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the Board of Trustees, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
§ 150.33 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the
Village Clerk-Treasurer request a hearing before the Board of Trustees, sitting
as the Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be
repaired or demolished. The Board of Trustees shall grant such a hearing within
ten days from the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the Board
of Trustees’ decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner
by certified mail.
   (B)   If the Board of Trustees rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60
days from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and
removal. If after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the Board of
Trustees shall proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the property
owner may appeal the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during
which proceedings the decision of the Board of Trustees shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any village police officer or member of the Board of Trustees shall at
once inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.34 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the village
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.35 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the village to repair, rehabilitate or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the village may proceed with the work
specified in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this
work shall be transmitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty amounts. Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or
provisions of any section of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter or by statute, the
penalty for such violation shall be in any amount not the exceed $1,000 in the
discretion of the court; provided, that whenever any section of this chapter
shall declare a nuisance, a violation of that section shall be penalized by a
fine of not more than $1,000, in which case a new violation shall be deemed to
have been committed every 24 hours of such failure to comply.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this
code, the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same,
in the manner provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that
a nuisance exists, the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed,
enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Neb. RS 18-1720) (Prior Code, § 9-207)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOME COURTS AND TRAILER COURTS
Section
   
151.01   Standards adopted by reference
§ 151.01 STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements to
establish, operate and maintain a mobile home park in the municipality, each
mobile home court shall comply with the planning and zoning regulations adopted
by the municipality as amended by ordinance from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 10-201)
CHAPTER 152: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Village Property
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Streets, alleys, walks, malls and other improvements
   
152.03   Maintenance and control
   
152.04   Regulation of snow, ice and other encroachments
   
152.05   Permitted use of public street space
   
152.06   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
152.07   Guttering and eave spouts
   
152.08   Prohibited obstructions
   
152.09   Overhanging branches
   
152.10   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
152.11   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
152.25   Sale and conveyance
   
152.26   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
152.27   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
Sidewalks
   
152.40   Requirement to keep clean
   
152.41   Weeds in sidewalk space
   
152.42   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
152.43   Construction and repair at village direction
Streets and Alleys
   
152.55   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
152.56   Names and numbers
   
152.57   Excavation
   
152.58   Driving stakes
   
152.59   Mixing concrete
   
152.60   Harmful liquids
   
152.61   Snow, debris and the like on street prohibited
   
152.62   Construction notice
   
152.63   Maintenance; graveling
   
152.64   Placement of culverts
   
152.65   Construction assessments
   
152.66   Petition for improvements
   
152.67   Deferral from special assessments
 
   
152.99   Penalty
VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
   STREET COMMISSIONER. The village official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, STREET COMMISSIONER shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
§ 152.02 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may grade, partially or to an established grade,
change grade, curb, re-curb, gutter, re-gutter, pave, gravel, re-gravel,
macadamize, re-macadamize, widen or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or
re-lay existing pavement or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public
grounds, public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the
village corporate area and the area adjoining the village; construct or
reconstruct pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler
systems, fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems and permanent
facilities; and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These
projects may be funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on
the property especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as
provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may by ordinance create improvement
districts, to be consecutively numbered, which may include two or more
connecting or intersecting streets, alleys or public ways, and may include two
or more types of the improvements authorized under this section in a single
district in one proceeding.
      (2)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefitted shall be ordered as provided
in Neb. RS 17-510 through 17-512, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-
509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
through 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401 and 19-2408 through 19-2415
§ 152.03 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 152.04 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The village shall have power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys and other village property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks, as provided in division (A) above, the
village through the proper officers may cause such encroachments to be removed,
and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The Board of
Trustees shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the encroachment
against the abutting property as a special assessment. The special assessment
shall be known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with the cost of
notice, shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in addition to
the general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties as other
special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of the assessment.
Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be credited to the Street
Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 152.05 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction,
wrecking or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a
sidewalk along any street, may occupy the public street space with the building
material and equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application
to and receives a permit to do so in writing from the Street Commissioner.
   (B)   No permit shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the
roadway of the public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building
or sidewalk is to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired.
A suitable passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public
space included in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted
in the manner required by the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the village. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the Board of Trustees in writing. Approval
by the Board shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Board.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Board. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Board, and the Village Clerk-Treasurer
shall notify any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires,
conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or
relocated. The Board shall designate another location as closely as possible
where the appurtenances may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
§ 152.07 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the village where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the wastewaters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 152.08 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the village at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent
to the sidewalk space as provided in §
91.19.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the village may proceed against the owner or occupant of
the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
91.19.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the Board of
Trustees. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the
Village Clerk-Treasurer of the place where such cutting is to be done and it
shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to inspect the proposed place of
entry into the paving, sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Board or the Village Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Street Commissioner, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Board to order the Street
Commissioner, under the supervision and inspection of the Village Engineer or
the committee of the Board on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit. The Board may consent to the cutting and closing
of the paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Board, the applicant for the permit
shall deposit with the Village Clerk-Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Board for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the village for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the
event the work is done by the village. If the Board elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the village until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the
Street Commissioner or of the committee of the Board on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the village with a good and sufficient
surety to be approved by the Board in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in the village’s traffic code, it shall be unlawful
to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or across any paved street a
vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or sharp wheels that bear upon
the pavement; with wheels having cutting edges; with wheels having lugs, any
protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut,
mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any pavement, gutter or curb,
except that where heavy vehicles, structures and machines move along paved or
unpaved streets the village police are hereby authorized and empowered to
choose the route over which the moving of such vehicles, structures or machines
will be permitted and allowed.
Penalty, see §
152.99
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 152.25 SALE AND CONVEYANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the village to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except any real property used in the operation of public
utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public
auction or by sealed bid of such property and the manner and terms thereof;
except that such property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid
when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a minimum price for real property
at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms
thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the village.
   (D)   (1)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the village
equal in numbers to 30% of the registered voters of the village voting in the
last regular municipal election held therein and is filed with the Board of
Trustees, such property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be
sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but
the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the
next business day.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the Board of Trustees, with
the aid and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The
Board of Trustees shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk shall issue to the Board of Trustees a written receipt that the
remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signatures of each
person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration records to
determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the date on which
the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name,
street and number or voting precinct and village or post office address with
the voter’s registration records to determine whether the signer was a
registered voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only
if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name,
street and number or voting precinct and village or post office address matches
the registration records and that the registration was received on or before
the date on which the remonstrance was filed with the Board of Trustees. The
determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by
any credible evidence which the Board of Trustees finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance,
and the qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception and
misrepresentation in the remonstrance process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal, setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the non-registration of
the signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that a signer
has affixed his or her name, more than once to the remonstrance and that only
one person is registered by that name, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the
name of the duplicate signature and shall only count the earliest dated
signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the
Board of Trustees the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a
valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the Board of Trustees within 40 days
after the receipt of the remonstrance from the Board of Trustees. The delivery
shall be done by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by
certified mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one
signature page shall be counted.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 30 days after receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The Board of Trustees shall, following the hearing,
vote on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the
remonstrance if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the village may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with
the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following the passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing
of the notice of the proposed sale, and passing the 30-day right of
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property, the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the village for a period of not less
than seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a
general description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and
conditions of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be
required.
   (H)   The power of the village to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms
thereof. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of property,
notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within the village
for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the property. If
the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000, notice of the
sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper published in or of
general circulation in the village at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-103) (Ord. 454, passed 6-23-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503, 17-503.01 and 17-503.02
§ 152.26 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, village building or community house
for housing village enterprises and social and recreation purposes and other
public buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the village.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the village at a general village election or at an election duly called for
that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954 and be adopted by a majority of
the electors voting on such question.
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the village and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or construction
is signed by registered voters of the village equal in number to 15% of the
registered voters of the village voting at the last regular village election
held therein and is filed with the governing body. If the date of filing the
remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures
shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of qualified
signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the voters of
the village at a general election or a special election duly called for that
purpose. If the purchase or construction is not approved, the property involved
shall not then, nor within one year following the election, be purchased or
constructed.
      (2)   The governing body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the governing body after notice and public hearing as provided
in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Prior Code, § 8-108) (Ord. 240, passed 3-8-1982; Ord. 385, passed 3-13-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 and 17-953.01
§ 152.27 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the village shall not engage in the construction of any public
works involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications
and estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect, professional engineer or those under the direct supervision of an
architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed any land owned by the village that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the village performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs and land use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified
in division (B) above or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Services ordinarily performed by subordinates under direct
supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation or
decommissioning is required by the village to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the village as a part of
a public water supply.
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the village is considered a public
service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a professional
engineer to be in responsible charge of the village’s architectural or
engineering work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.40 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the Board of
Trustees has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the Business District
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the village shall be cleaned within 24 hours
after the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 WEEDS IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   It is hereby the duty of the Utilities Superintendent or his or her
duly authorized agent to view and inspect the sidewalk space within the
corporate limits for growing weeds during the growing season, and if rank and
noxious weeds are found growing thereon, he or she shall notify the owner of
occupant thereof to cut down such weeds as close to the ground as can be
practicably done and keep the weeds cut thereon in like manner during the
growing season for weeds.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that the owner of any lot or parcel of land within
the municipality is a nonresident of the municipality or cannot be found, the
notice may be given to any person having the care, custody or control of such
lot or parcel of land. In the event that there can be found no one within the
municipality to whom notice can be given, it shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent or his or her agent to post a copy of the notice on the premises
and then to cut or cause to be cut the weeds thereon to be cut as therein
provided and report the cost thereof in writing to the governing body.
      (2)   The cost shall then be audited and paid by the municipality and the
amount thereof shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land as a special
tax thereon and shall be collected as are other taxes of the municipality or
may be recovered by civil suit brought by the municipality against the owner of
the parcel of land.
   (C)   In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in
which the property lies, the municipality shall before levying any special
assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to
be published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such notice was
first published.
(Neb. RS 17-563) (Prior Code, § 8-106)
§ 152.42 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct or cause to be constructed any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the Village Clerk-Treasurer. The permit shall give
a description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Street Commissioner shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade or elevation, the Street Commissioner shall submit the application to the
Board of Trustees for determination as to whether the permit should be granted
or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade or elevation than so
designated by the village. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.43 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT VILLAGE DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Board of
Trustees deems necessary and assess the expense of such construction or repairs
on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are made, after
having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the village; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Board of Trustees, after having received due notice to do so, the Board of
Trustees may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may assess
the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the Board of Trustees at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained as a consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes;
      (2)   Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the village at least four weeks before the same shall be held
or, in lieu thereof, personal service may be made upon persons owning or
occupying property to be assessed; and
      (3)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other village taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 152.55 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve
or vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the village
and also to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All
damages sustained by the citizens of the village, or by the owners of the
property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by
ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, such street,
avenue, alley or lane shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate,
one-half on each side thereof, and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title
is retained by the village, such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or
leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests
of the village.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
village reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street,
avenue, alley or lane. If title is retained by the village, such property may
be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall
be deemed in the best interests of the village.
      (4)   When the village vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley or lane, the village shall, within 30 days after the effective date of
the vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register
of Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the village the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the village, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The village shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul,
vacate or discontinue such street, avenue, alley, area or public way.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 152.56 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   Authority. The governing body may at any time by ordinance rename any
street or provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or
business purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as
the governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the Utilities
Superintendent, upon the erection of any new building or buildings, to assign
the proper numbers to said building or buildings and give notice to the owner
or owners and occupant or occupants of the same.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a system within
the village whereby the addresses of all premises will be identified and to
provide rules and guidelines to facilitate enforcement thereof.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HOUSE NUMBER or BUSINESS NUMBER. The official number assigned that
premises by the Utilities Superintendent.
      PREMISES. Any lot or parcel of land owned by any person, firm or
corporation, public or private, improved with buildings, whether occupied or
not.
      STREET OR ROAD NAME. Any official name as recognized by government
authority. No such named street or road shall be changed without the approval
of the governing body.
   (D)   Regulations. All premises shall bear the distinctive house number or
business number assigned to that premises by the Utilities Superintendent.
      (1)   All premises shall display upon the front of each dwelling or
building the distinctive house number or business number assigned to that
premises. The number shall be placed in such a position as to be plainly
visible to all road traffic coming to the premises from both directions. These
numbers shall be not less than four inches in height.
      (2)   If a house or building is more than 50 feet from the street or is
not clearly visible from the road, every owner of a premises shall place or
display adjacent to the road on which the property fronts a sign attached to a
fence, post or other structure, the distinctive house number or business number
assigned to that premises. These numbers shall be not less than four inches in
height. These numbers should be visible from both directions. The sign must be
placed at a height to assure it does not become obscured by winter snows or
snowplowing.
      (3)   All house numbers and business numbers shall be in either block or
script style letters and shall be in contrasting colors to their backgrounds,
whether on the dwelling or on a sign at the road.
   (E)   Violation. Failure to display house numbers or business numbers within
60 days after the adoption of the ordinance codified in this section, or in the
case of new construction, within 30 days after a letter or certificate of
occupancy has been issued, shall be considered a violation of this section and
shall subject such violator to the penalties as established by §
152.99.
(Ord. 611, passed 3-9-2016) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.57 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Commissioner authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.58 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.59 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.60 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.61 SNOW, DEBRIS AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push or deposit snow, sleet, ice or mud, or
any debris, including leaves, grass and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the village.
Penalty, see §
152.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
§ 152.62 CONSTRUCTION NOTICE.
   (A)   The Utilities Superintendent shall notify the owners of real estate
abutting a street, alley or part thereof which is to be put under contract for
paving or repaving. Notice shall also be given to all gas, electric service and
telephone companies. Notice shall also be given to all consumers of gas, water
and sewer services which will be discontinued during such construction. Said
notice shall be published one time in a legal newspaper at least 20 days prior
to the beginning of such construction by the party undertaking such
construction, and said notice shall state at what date connections must be made
and excavation completed.
   (B)   All gas, water, sewer and underground connection must be made prior to
the paving or repaving of the street under condition after expiration of such
time, permits for excavation will not be issued nor will excavation be allowed
until after the completion of the pavement in said street or alley and the
formal final acceptance thereof by the proper officials of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 8-307)
§ 152.63 MAINTENANCE; GRAVELING.
   It shall be the duty of the municipality, through the Utilities
Superintendent, to keep all streets properly maintained and supplied with
adequate gravel or other material in such a manner as to allow for free flowing
of traffic throughout the municipality. It shall be unlawful for any person
other than officials of the municipality to spread gravel or other material on
the municipal streets or to alter the condition of the roadways in any manner
other than what would occur during the normal use of said streets and roads.
(Prior Code, § 8-308) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.64 PLACEMENT OF CULVERTS.
   The municipality may by resolution require any property owner to place a
culvert in the ditch beneath any driveway or access road onto a resident’s
property. Said culvert shall be located and constructed in a manner specified
by the Utilities Superintendent. Any person desiring to place a culvert in the
road ditch adjacent to his or her property shall first request permission to do
so and shall agree to construct said culvert in the manner designated by the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 8-309)
§ 152.65 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefitting from the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired.
   (B)   The governing body, sitting as the Board of Equalization, shall review
all such improvements in accordance with the procedure provided by law. All
special assessments shall be made by the governing body at a regular or special
meeting by resolution taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements and the amount charged against
same. The vote shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (C)   Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which
it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published or of
general circulation in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as special assessments for improvements and with the
cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition to
the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as either municipal taxes and shall be certified to
the County Clerk forthwith after the date of levy for collection by the County
Treasurer unless otherwise specified. Said assessment shall draw interest at 9%
per annum.
(Prior Code, § 8-314)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511 and 17-524
§ 152.66 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition is signed by the owners of record title representing
more than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved, shall be presented and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer, petitioning
therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling or
other improvement district or districts and shall cause such work to be done or
such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such
street, streets, alley or alleys especially benefitted thereby in such district
in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement. The
governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the proposed
district when the area has not previously been improved with a water system,
sewer system and grading of streets. If the governing body should deny a
requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Neb. RS 17-510) (Prior Code, § 8-316)
§ 152.67 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Whether the governing body of a municipality creates a paving district
which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments. For the purpose of this section, AGRICULTURAL USE and AGRICULTURAL
USE ZONE shall have the meanings specified in Neb. RS 77-1343.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of the paving district.
Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral provided by
this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such application in
writing prior to approval by the governing body. The governing body shall
approve the application of any owner of record title upon determination that
the property:
      (1)   Is within an agricultural use zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer except as provided in division (C)(3)
below;
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than agricultural.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property to the extent of special benefits had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate allowable by law from the dates at which such assessments would have been
payable if no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by in this section is terminated
as a result of a sale or transfer described in divisions (C)(2) or (C)(3)
above, the lien for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day
preceding such sale or transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-317)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2427
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-501)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Designation of current maps
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Storage of material and equipment
   
153.07   Flood-carrying capacity within any watercourse
   
153.08   Nonconforming use
   
153.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.10   Interpretation
   
153.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.12   Conflicting ordinances or resolutions
Administration
   
153.25   Floodplain Administrator designation; duties; responsibilities
   
153.26   Permit procedures
   
153.27   Floodplain development permit application
   
153.28   Application review
   
153.29   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   Standards for subdivisions and other new developments
   
153.41   Water and sewage systems
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has, in Neb. RS 31-1001 through 31-1022, assigned the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations designed to protect the health, safety and general welfare.
Therefore, the Village Board ordains as follows.
(Prior Code, § 11-201)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of the village are subject to inundation which results in loss of life
and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of flood losses. These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 11-202)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
153.02(A) by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Prior Code, § 11-203)
§ 153.04 DESIGNATION OF CURRENT MAPS.
   The Village Board hereby designates the current flood hazard boundary map
and flood insurance rate map and any revisions thereto as the official maps to
be used in determining those areas of special flood hazard.
(Prior Code, § 11-211)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION OF EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from either of the following:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waves; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium applicable to the community.
   FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from: the overflow of inland or tidal
waters; and the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface water from
any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see FLOODING).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminary determined by
the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminary determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminary determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. The condition of flooding having a 1% chance of annual
occurrence.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation of the 100-year
flood.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued; provided, that the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured borne on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparations, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the terms of a floodplain
management ordinance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11-208)
§ 153.06 STORAGE OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   The storage or processing of materials that are, at the time of flooding,
buoyant, flammable or explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited. Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed
if not subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent
floatation or if readily removable from the area within the time available
after flood warning.
(Prior Code, § 11-217) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 FLOOD-CARRYING CAPACITY WITHIN ANY WATERCOURSE.
   The Village Board will ensure that the flood-carrying capacity within the
altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained. The village will
notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state’s
coordinating office (State Natural Resources Commission) prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of such
notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Moreover, the village
will work with appropriate state and federal agencies in every way possible in
complying with the National Flood Insurance Program in accordance with the
National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 11-218)
§ 153.08 NONCONFORMING USE.
   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of the chapter, but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future use
of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility Department
shall notify the Building Inspector in writing of instances of nonconforming
uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
   (B)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
(Prior Code, § 11-221)
§ 153.09 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances or resolutions inconsistent with this chapter are hereby
repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Prior Code, § 11-204)
§ 153.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 11-205)
§ 153.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
floodplain district boundaries or land uses permitted within such districts
will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 11-207)
§ 153.12 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES OR RESOLUTIONS.
   This chapter shall take precedence over conflicting ordinances or
resolutions or parts of ordinances or resolutions. The Village Board may, from
time to time, amend this chapter to reflect any and all changes in the National
Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq. The
regulations of this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood Insurance
Program Regulations as published in 44 C.F.R. and the 1983 State Floodplain
Management Act, being Neb. RS 31-1001 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 11-206)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATION; DUTIES; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   General responsibilities. The Building Inspector hereby has these
added responsibilities and is authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances or resolutions of the
village now in force or hereafter adopted, related to zoning, subdivision or
building codes.
(Prior Code, § 11-209)
   (B)   Appointment and service. The Building Inspector shall be appointed to
these additional responsibilities by resolution of the Village Board, and his
or her appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory
service. During temporary absence or disability of the Building Inspector, the
Village Board shall designate an acting administrator.
(Prior Code, § 11-210)
§ 153.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any floodplain development or
substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a
separate permit for development as defined in this chapter.
   (A)   Separate permits. Within special flood hazard areas on the official
map, separate floodplain development permits are required for all new
construction, substantial improvements and other developments, including the
placement of manufactured homes.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall
first file an application therefor in writing on a form furnished for that
purpose.
      (2)   Every such application shall:
         (a)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the
floodplain development permit for which application is made;
         (b)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
done by lot, block, tract and house and street address or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
         (c)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development
is intended;
         (d)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
         (e)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who
may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
         (f)   Within designated floodplain areas, be accompanied by elevations
of the lowest floor, including basement, or in the case of floodproofed
nonresidential structures, the elevation to which it shall be floodproofed.
Documentation or certification of such elevations will be maintained by the
Building Inspector; and
         (g)   Give such other information as reasonable may be required by the
Building Inspector (such as, a statement from the applicant that he or she is
aware that elevating or floodproofing structures above the minimum levels will
result in premium reduction, especially in the case of nonresidential
floodproofing when a minus one foot penalty is assessed at the time of rating
the structure for the policy premium).
(Prior Code, § 11-212)
§ 153.27 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Building Inspector shall review all development permit applications to
determine if the site of the proposed development is reasonably safe from
flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as required by
federal or state law.
(Prior Code, § 11-213)
§ 153.28 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   The Building Inspector, in reviewing all applications for new construction,
substantial improvements, prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured
homes and other developments (as defined in §
153.05) will:
   (A)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, if available, any regulatory
flood evaluation data and floodway data available from federal, state or other
sources, until such other data is provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a flood insurance study, and require within special flood
hazard areas on the official map that the following performance standards be
met:
      (1)   Prior to a floodway being designated. No development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within the identified floodplain unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot at any location.
      (2)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least one
foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be floodproofed so that below such a level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (A)(3) are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the local administrator.
      (4)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements.
Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria; a minimum of two openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves or other coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (B)   Require the use of construction materials that are resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Require the use of construction methods and practices that will
minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Require that new structures be designed (or modified) and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (E)   New structures be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding;
   (F)   Assure that all manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist
floatation, collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored
in accordance with state laws, local building codes and FEMA guidelines. In the
event that over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following
specific requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home with two additional ties per side at the intermediate
locations and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one
additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side.
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to manufactured homes be similarly anchored.
   (G)   Assure that all manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map on
sites:
      (1)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated at least one foot above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (F) above;
   (H)   Assure that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within special
flood hazard areas on the community’s official map that are not subject to the
provisions of division (G) above be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are not less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (F)
above.
   (I)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within the
identified special flood hazard areas on the community’s official map either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for “manufactured homes” of this chapter. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices and
has no permanently attached additions.
(Prior Code, § 11-214)
§ 153.29 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   Village Board to decide.
         (a)   The Village Board as established by the village shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
         (b)   The Village Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Building Inspector in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
      (2)   Appeal of Village Board decision. Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Village Board or any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the
District Court as provided in Neb. RS 23-136 (for counties) and Neb. RS 19-912
(for municipalities).
      (3)   Factors. In passing upon such applications, the Village Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
      (4)   Conditions for variances.
         (a)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level; provided, that divisions (A)(4)(b) through (A)(4)
(e) below have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
         (b)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued upon the following:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances or
resolutions.
         (e)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature
of a community official that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below base flood level will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100,000 of insurance
coverage; and such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-219)
   (B)   Appeal. Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is
denied by the Building Inspector, the applicant may apply for such permit or
variance directly to the Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 11-220)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   The Village Board shall review all subdivision applications and other
proposed new developments (including manufactured home parks or subdivisions)
and shall make findings of fact and assure that:
   (A)   All such proposed developments are consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments (including
proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions) greater than five acres
or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include within such proposals regulatory flood
elevation data in special flood hazard areas;
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities are located so as to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 11-215)
§ 153.41 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   New and replacement water and sewage systems shall be constructed to
eliminate or minimize infiltration by, or discharge into floodwaters. Moreover,
on-site waste disposal systems will be designed to avoid impairment or
contamination during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 11-216)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants or variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $1,000 and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village Board or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 11-222)
CHAPTER 154: MUNICIPAL PLANNING; ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Subdivision regulations adopted
   
154.02   Zoning regulations adopted
§ 154.01 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The Subdivision Regulations of Lincoln County, Nebraska, as amended, are
hereby adopted as the subdivision regulations for the village. One copy of said
subdivision regulations in book form, including maps, marked or stamped
“Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No. 554,” shall be filed with the
Village Clerk-Treasurer; attached thereto shall be a copy of this chapter as
published in the official village newspaper. Said “Official Copy” shall be
available to the public for examination or inspection at all reasonable hours.
The area of jurisdiction for said subdivision regulations shall be all land
within the corporate limits of the village and all land within the area of
planning jurisdiction as defined on the official zoning map for the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 554, passed 9-28-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-901
§ 154.02 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The zoning regulations, as amended, are hereby adopted as the zoning
regulations for the village. One copy of said zoning regulations in book form,
including maps, marked or stamped “Official Copy as Adopted by Ordinance No.
555,” shall be filed with the Village Clerk-Treasurer; attached thereto shall
be a copy of this chapter as published in the official village newspaper. Said
“Official Copy” shall be available to the public for examination or inspection
at all reasonable hours. The area of jurisdiction for said zoning regulations
shall be all land within the corporate limits of the village and all land
within the area of zoning jurisdiction as defined on the official zoning map
for the village.
(Ord. 555, passed 9-28-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   STREET VACATIONS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VI.   STREET NAMES
      
VII.   IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
      
VIII.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
IX.   COVID-19 POLICIES
      
X.   VILLAGE DECLARATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Granting a telephone franchise to Great Plains Communication. Actual
-     -      details of the agreement and the present rates, charges and fees are
             available at the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
           (Prior Code, § 13-101)
             Granting a cable television franchise to Great Plains Communication.
-     -      Actual details of the agreement and the present rates, charges and fees
             are available at the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
           (Prior Code, § 13-201)
             Granting a light and power system franchise to Nebraska Public Power
-     -      District (NPPD). Actual details of the agreement and the present rates,
             charges and fees are available at the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
           (Prior Code, § 13-301)
             Granting a natural gas franchise to Source Gas. Actual details of the
-     -      agreement and the present rates, charges and fees are available at the
             Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
           (Prior Code, § 13-401)
404   2-25-  Amending franchise agreement with K N Energy Inc.
      1998
      9-12-  Granting a nonexclusive cable television franchise to Great Plains Cable
568   2012   Television, Inc. Actual details of the agreement and the present rates,
             charges and fees are available at the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
      9-9-   Granting a gas transmission franchise to Sourcegas Distribution LLC.
605   2015   Actual details of the agreement and the present rates, charges and fees
             are available at the Village Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
Res.  11-8-
2017- 2017   Amending franchise with Nebraska Public Power District.
10-01
            
 
TABLE II: STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      4-13-  Vacating all lots or lands in the Beatty-Ryal Addition, a replat of Lots 2
353   1994   and 3, Clarkson’s Subdivision, Section 29, Township 14 N, Range 33 W of the
             sixth PM.
386   3-27-  Vacating a 15-foot wide easement for utilities along the west side of the
      1996   following real estate: Lot 3, Block 1 of Lee Case Addition.
Res.         Vacating the following easements: A utilities easement, both Lot 1 of the
2006- 1-11-  Brunz Replat and Lot 2 of Cittas Addition; an alley/easement in its entirety
01    2006   of Tedermans First Replat, Lot 1; and easements located at Clyde Betts Second
             Subdivision.
Res.  11-10-
2021- 2021   Vacating Kinnaman’s Fourth Replat.
11-02
512   10-8-  Vacating a 15-foot alley on the north side of Lot 1, Shappell’s First Replat
      2008   and Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Shappell’s Subdivision.
      1-14-  Vacating a seven-foot right-of-way along the east side of McKinley Street,
517   2009   commending at the southwest corner of Lot 14, McKinley’s Subdivision and
             continuing north for 177 feet.
622   8-8-   Vacating a 17-foot by 300-foot alley located in the County Clerk’s
      2018   Subdivision of Lot 7 of Sear’s Subdivision.
641   9-25-  Vacating a 15-foot by 96-foot of alley located between Lot 11 and the north
      2019   half of Lot 12, Replat of Godwin Aces.
640   11-13- Vacating a 12-foot by 500-foot alley lying west of and adjacent to Lots 1-10,
      2019   La Rue’s Addition.
Res.  11-10-
2021- 2021   Vacating Kinnaman’s Fourth Replat.
11-02
            
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Annexing the following described property to the
                         village: Part of the northwest quarter and west half
414          10-6-1999   of the northeast quarter and the southeast quarter of
                         the northeast quarter of Section 27, Township 14,
                         Range 33 west of the sixth PM.
Res. 2001-18 5-9-2001    Annexing the following described property: Cherry
                         Hills First Subdivision.
528          4-14-2010   Annexing the following described property to the
                         village: As mapped in Exhibit 2 of this ordinance.
529          4-14-2010   Annexing the following described property to the
                         village: As mapped in Exhibit 2 of this ordinance.
530          4-14-2010   Annexing the following described property to the
                         village: As mapped in Exhibit 2 of this ordinance.
535          7-28-2010   Annexing the following described property to the
                         village: As mapped in Exhibit 2 of this ordinance.
                        
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
643  12-11- Rezoning the following described property from M-P to S-R: Lot 7,
     2019   Block 6 of McGee’s Subdivision and Block 6, Sear’s Subdivision.
644  12-11- Rezoning the following described property from M-P to R: Lot 1 of
     2019   Saner First Replat and Lot 1 of Tederman First Replat.
655  9-8-   Rezoning the following described property from R to C-2: Lots 5, 6,
     2021   7, 8 and 9 of Block 1 of Park Subdivision.
           
 
TABLE V: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      3-8-   Purchasing the following described real estate: Lot 3, Block 2 of Park
364   1995   Subdivision; and Lot 1, Block 1 of Blythe’s Replat, Lot 27 of Clarkson’s
             Subdivision.
Res.  2-23-
2005- 2005   Selling the property listed in Exhibit A of this resolution.
05
Res.  11-28- Purchasing the following described real estate: W2 Lot 10 and W2 Lot 11
2007- 2007   County Clerks Subdivision.
09
Res.  7-13-  Purchasing the real estate described in Exhibit A of this resolution from
2011- 2011   Saxton Fruit Farms, Inc.
06-01
568   6-13-  Accepting donation of the following described real estate: North 35.5 feet
      2012   of Lot 7, Block 6, Original Town.
571   1-9-   Accepting donation of the following described real estate: Lot 2, Cherry
      2013   Hills Fifth Replat.
Res.  1-23-  Selling the following described real estate: The north half, 35.5 of Lot 7,
2013- 2013   Block 6, Original Town.
01-01
Res.  11-13- Exchange of real estate in the Rodeo Replat between the village and Hi Line
2013- 2013   Cooperative, Inc.
11-01
Res.  1-25-  Selling the following described real estate: All of Lot 7 and 8 of Block 5
2017- 2017   of the Original Township.
01-01
616   4-26-  Selling all of Lots 7 and 8 of Block 5 to Rickie and Pamela Mathews.
      2017
            
 
TABLE VI: STREET NAMES
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
388          4-10-1996   Changing the name of East County Road to Pioneer
                         Trace.
Res. 2001-19 6-13-2001   Naming Ethanol Drive, an access road located on real
                         estate annexed in Ord. 414.
                        
 
 
TABLE VII: IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
2006-04      4-18-2006   Creating Street Improvement District No. 2006-1.
2006-05      4-18-2006   Creating Water Extension District No. 2006-1.
2006-06      4-18-2006   Creating Sanitary Sewer Extension District No. 2006-1.
Res. 2006-05 5-24-2006   Creating Street Improvement District No. 2006-05.
469          4-11-2007   Revoking Street Improvement District No. 2006-1.
470          4-11-2007   Creating Water Extension District No. 2006-1.
471          4-11-2007   Revoking Sanitary Sewer Extension District No. 2006-1.
485          6-13-2007   Creating Curb and Gutter Improvement District No.
                         2007-1.
500          4-26-2008   Water Extension District No. 080301.
501          4-26-2008   Creating Sewer Extension District No. 080301.
502          4-26-2008   Creating Street Improvement District No. 080301.
503          4-26-2008   Creating Curb and Gutter Improvement District No.
                         080301.
586          4-23-2014   Creating Curbing and Guttering District No. 14-01.
                        
 
TABLE VIII: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
 
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
Res. 3          11-9-1994   Service agreement with the Lexington Area Solid
                            Waste Agency.
Res. 2003-05    1-22-2003   Retail operations agreement with Nebraska Public
                            Power District.
Res. 2004-      7-22-2004   Entering into an interlocal agreement with Lincoln
                            County for shared ambulance services.
Res. 2019-12-01 12-11-2019  Interlocal agreement with Nebraska Cooperative
                            Government related to the payment of Keno funds.
Res. 2023-03-01 3- -2023    Authorizing membership in the League Insurance
                            Government Health Team.
                           
 
TABLE IX: COVID-19 POLICIES
 
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
                            Authorizing Board members, the Village Clerk-
                            Treasurer and the Village Utilities Superintendent
Res. 2020-03-01 3-25-2020   to make decisions relating to staffing changes and
                            personnel policies relating to the potential spread
                            of Covid-19.
                            Creating rules and regulations for village parks
Res. 2020-05-02 5-27-2020   and public property during the Covid-19 pandemic,
                            as well as cancelling recreation activities.
                           
 
TABLE X: VILLAGE DECLARATIONS
 
Ord.  Date     Description
No.   Passed
               The Board of Trustees declares that the village is a sanctuary
-     -        for the unborn, making various provisions and findings
               relating to abortion, providing for severability and
               establishing an effective date.
Res.           The Board of Trustees opposes the federal government’s 30x30
2021- 8- -2021 program.
08-08
              
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
 
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section              Code Section
2-946.02                     91.18
2-953                        91.18
9-646                        111.19
10-101 through 10-143        34.11
11-101                       30.03;
                             31.02
11-104                       31.01
11-105                       31.01
11-109                       31.01
11-110                       31.01
11-111                       31.01
11-112                       31.01
11-113                       31.01
11-114                       31.01
11-115                       31.01
11-116                       31.01
11-117                       31.01
11-118                       31.01
13-315                       32.21
                             34.28;
13-501 et seq.               34.30;
                             34.46;
                             35.32
13-504                       34.27
13-505                       34.27
13-506                       34.28
13-507                       34.28
13-508                       34.29
13-509                       34.29;
                             34.48
13-510                       34.31
13-518 through 13-522        34.28;
                             34.29
13-801 et seq.               34.46
13-903                       34.05
13-2001 et seq.              35.32
13-2501 et seq.              34.46
14-2149                      50.99
16-714 through 16-716        34.09
17-121                       91.01
17-137                       110.21
17-202                       30.01
17-203                       30.01
17-203.01                    31.55
17-204                       30.03
17-205                       31.49
17-207                       30.02;
                             111.01
17-208                       31.20;
                             32.15
17-209                       31.03
                             30.01;
17-209.02                    31.03;
                             31.21
17-210                       35.06
17-213.01                    31.28
17-214                       31.30
17-502                       11.01
17-503                       152.25
17-503.01                    152.25
17-503.02                    152.25
17-505                       35.01
17-509                       152.02
17-509 through 17-521        152.43
17-510                       152.66
17-510 through 17-512        152.02
17-511                       152.65
17-513 through 17-524        152.02
17-522                       152.43
17-524                       152.43;
                             152.65
17-536                       52.11
                             50.02;
                             52.03—
                             52.05;
17-537                       52.07—
                             52.09;
                             52.13—
                             52.15;
                             52.35
17-538                       50.05
17-539                       52.12
17-540                       34.10
17-541                       31.29;
                             50.05
                             50.02;
17-542                       52.06;
                             52.17
17-550                       93.29;
                             93.30
17-552                       114.03
                             91.18;
17-555                       131.03;
                             131.04
                             93.46;
                             93.61;
17-556                       93.62;
                             131.01;
                             132.45
                             131.03;
17-557                       152.04;
                             152.61
17-557.01                    152.04
17-558                       152.55
17-559                       152.55
17-561                       114.02
17-563(a)                    91.18
17-563(b)                    91.18
17-563                       132.03;
                             152.41
17-567                       72.33;
                             152.03
17-568                       31.28
17-568.01                    31.28;
                             34.02
17-568.02                    34.02
                             54.002;
17-574                       54.003;
                             54.005
17-575                       54.005
17-601.01                    33.05
17-601.02                    33.05
17-601.03                    33.05
17-602                       33.04
                             31.01;
17-604                       31.03;
                             31.20
17-606                       31.25
17-607                       34.08
17-608                       34.10
17-609                       34.10
17-610                       31.27
17-611                       31.03
17-612                       31.03
                             34.02;
17-613                       35.04;
                             35.06;
                             35.07
                             10.15;
17-614                       35.04;
                             35.05;
                             35.08
17-616                       35.05
17-701                       34.25
17-702                       34.07;
                             34.47
17-706                       34.30
17-710                       34.06
17-711                       34.04
17-714                       34.05
17-715                       34.05
17-718                       32.35
17-720                       34.09
17-902 through 17-904        55.01
17-906                       55.01
17-909                       55.01
17-919                       31.28
17-920                       131.04
                             54.002;
17-925.01                    54.008;
                             54.063;
                             54.096
17-948                       90.01;
                             90.40
17-948 through 17-952        90.01
                             90.01;
17-949                       90.41;
                             90.42;
                             90.43
17-951                       90.01;
                             90.40
                             32.19;
17-952                       90.01;
                             90.40
17-953                       152.26
17-953.01                    152.26
17-953 et seq.               32.35
17-954                       152.26
17-1001                      91.16
17-1603                      50.02
17-1604                      50.02
18-131                       35.06
18-132                       35.01;
                             93.25
18-305 through 18-312        31.04
18-412.01                    34.02
18-503                       54.063
18-1001 through 18-1006      152.25
18-1719                      132.03
                             10.99;
                             30.02;
                             91.15;
                             91.16;
18-1720                      91.18;
                             130.02;
                             132.01;
                             150.31;
                             150.99
18-1722                      150.35
18-1722.01                   150.32
18-1736                      72.34
18-1743                      150.03
18-1748                      54.061
18-1751                      152.02
18-1755                      152.26
18-1756                      34.02
18-1801 through 18-1805      34.11
18-2101 et seq.              34.23;
                             34.46
18-2101.01                   34.23;
18-2103 et seq.              34.49
18-2501 through 18-2511      35.20;
                             35.21
18-2501 through 18-2531      35.99
18-2512                      35.22
18-2513                      35.22
18-2514                      35.23
18-2515                      35.23
18-2516                      35.24
18-2517                      35.25
18-2518                      35.26
18-2519                      35.27
18-2520                      35.28
18-2521                      35.29
18-2522                      35.30
18-2523 through 18-2526      35.31
18-2527                      35.32
18-2528                      35.32
18-2529 through 18-2531      35.33
18-2532 through 18-2535      35.99
18-2538                      35.23
18-2701 et seq.              34.49
18-2801 et seq.              34.25;
                             34.27
18-3301                      31.28
19-710                       91.20
19-901                       154.01
19-902                       93.25
19-903                       32.18
19-908                       32.18
19-912                       153.29
19-915                       35.08
19-922                       35.01
19-925 through 19-929        32.18
19-929                       32.18
19-1101                      31.26
19-1301                      34.07
19-1302                      34.07
19-1303                      34.07
19-1304                      34.07
19-1309                      34.45
19-1310                      34.45
19-1311                      34.45
19-1312                      34.45
19-2101 through 19-2113      51.02
19-2401                      152.02
19-2408 through 19-2415      152.02
19-2417 through 19-2419      152.43
19-2427                      152.67
19-2428 through 19-2431      152.02
19-2701                      52.03;
                             52.16
19-2903                      34.01
19-2905                      34.01
19-3701                      35.07
23-168                       153.29
25-1801                      50.99
25-2703                      35.01
25-21,149 through 25-21,164  35.23
Ch. 28, art. 3               112.16
Ch. 28, art. 4               112.16
28-431                       132.30
28-512                       55.03
28-520                       130.01
28-521                       130.01
28-523                       90.02
Ch. 28, art. 7               112.16
Ch. 28, art. 8               112.16
28-907                       93.08;
                             131.07
28-908                       93.10
Ch. 28, art. 10              112.16
28-1008                      92.05
Ch. 28, art. 11              112.16
Ch. 28, art. 12              112.16
28-1229                      93.46
28-1241                      93.60;
                             132.04
28-1241 through 28-1252      110.21
                             91.17;
28-1321                      91.99;
                             130.02
28-1322                      131.05
28-1418                      132.15
28-1419                      132.16
28-1421 through 28-1429      110.20
28-1427                      132.16
29-908                       93.02;
                             93.04
29-4001 et seq.              132.60
29-4003                      132.60
29-4013                      132.60
31-1001 et seq.              153.12
31-1001 through 31-1022      153.01
                             33.01;
32-101 et seq.               33.02;
                             34.07;
                             34.46
32-101                       30.01
32-110                       33.04
32-115                       33.04
32-404                       33.01
32-405                       33.03
32-417                       33.07
32-418                       33.07
32-532                       30.01
32-554                       30.01
32-556                       33.01
32-557                       30.01
32-559                       33.03
32-560                       30.05
32-560 through 32-572        30.05
32-561                       30.05
32-568                       33.09
32-569                       30.05
32-602                       30.01
32-604                       30.01
32-608                       33.06
32-615                       33.06
32-616                       33.06
32-617                       33.06
32-618                       33.06
32-621                       33.06
32-625(2)                    33.06
32-627                       33.06
32-628                       33.06
32-628 through 32-631        34.46
32-629                       33.06
32-630                       33.06
32-710                       33.06
32-802                       33.02;
                             34.46
32-952 through 32-959        33.03
32-1308                      30.05
33-139.01                    32.37
35-106                       110.06
35-108                       32.37
39-301                       131.03
39-302                       131.03
39-307                       132.02
39-311                       71.45
39-650                       71.01
39-2512                      31.30
39-6,177 through 39-6,180    150.15
39-6,184                     150.15
43-245 et seq.               132.16
46-1212                      152.27
48-1501                      34.02
49-801(16)                   10.05
49-1408                      31.04
49-1425                      31.04
49-1499.03 through 49-14,103 31.04
49-1499.04                   31.04
49-14,102                    31.04
49-14,103.01                 31.04
49-14,103.02                 31.04
49-14,103.03                 31.04
49-14,103.04                 31.04
49-14,103.05                 31.04
49-14,103.06                 31.04
51-201                       34.46;
                             90.20
51-201 through 51-220        32.16
51-202                       90.20
51-205                       90.21
51-207                       90.23
51-209                       90.22
                             90.20;
51-211                       90.24;
                             90.25;
                             90.99
51-214                       90.21
51-215                       34.07
51-216                       34.07
51-501                       34.46
52-601.01 through 52-605     132.30
                             112.03;
                             112.15—
53-101 et seq.               112.17;
                             112.20—
                             112.22
53-103.01 through 53-103.42  112.01
53-118                       112.37
53-123.04(3)                 132.17
53-123.11(1)(c)              132.17
53-123.12                    112.17
53-124                       112.17;
                             112.19
53-124.01                    112.17
53-124.12                    112.19
53-124.15                    112.35
53-124.17                    112.17
53-125                       112.16
53-129                       112.17
53-131                       112.17
53-132                       112.17
53-133                       112.17;
                             112.35
53-134                       112.17
53-134.03                    112.17;
                             112.37
53-135                       112.18
53-135.01                    112.17;
                             112.18
53-148                       112.20
53-168.06                    112.15;
                             112.42
53-172                       112.39
53-177                       112.35
53-177.01                    112.35
53-178                       112.36
53-179                       112.41
53-180                       112.02
53-183                       112.38
53-184                       112.40
53-186                       112.03
53-186(2)                    112.03
53-186.01                    112.03
53-1,101                     112.21
53-1,102                     112.22
53-1,121                     112.04
54-617 through 54-624        92.30
55-133                       70.01
Ch. 60                       73.999
Ch. 60, art. 1               73.034
60-116.01                    73.105
60-135.01                    73.080;
                             73.081
60-138                       73.001
60-169                       132.30
Ch. 60, art. 3               73.034;
                             73.081
60-301 et seq.               73.081;
                             132.30
60-301                       72.07;
                             132.30
60-314                       73.001
60-315                       73.001
60-317                       73.001
60-335                       73.045
60-337                       73.046
60-371                       71.53
60-376                       132.30;
                             132.31
60-3,113 et seq.             72.80; 72.81
Ch. 60, art. 4               73.034
60-401 et seq.               73.082;
                             73.106
Ch. 60, art. 5               73.034
60-501 et seq.               73.082;
                             73.083
Ch. 60, art. 6               73.060
60-606 through 60-676        70.01
60-607                       70.01
60-610                       70.01
60-611                       73.001
60-613                       70.01
60-624                       70.01
60-631                       70.01
60-636                       73.030;
                             73.031
60-637                       73.060
60-638                       70.01
60-639                       73.015
60-640                       73.015
60-646                       70.01
60-654                       70.01
60-656                       70.01
60-658.01                    70.01
60-661                       70.01
60-663                       73.045
60-669                       70.01
60-670                       70.01
60-671                       70.01
60-672                       70.01;
                             72.99
60-676                       70.01
                             73.033;
60-678                       73.090;
                             73.110
                             70.02;
                             71.01—
60-680                       71.03;
                             71.59;
                             72.01
60-681                       70.03
60-683                       71.55
60-689                       72.99
60-699                       73.089;
                             73.109
60-6,114                     70.06
60-6,118                     70.01
60-6,119                     70.05
60-6,121                     70.04
60-6,130                     71.46
60-6,131                     71.04
60-6,136                     71.49
60-6,139                     71.50
60-6,140                     71.51
60-6,142                     73.003
60-6,146 through 60-6,154    71.15
60-6,148                     71.17
60-6,151                     71.16
60-6,159                     71.01
60-6,164                     71.48
60-6,165                     72.12
60-6,166                     72.02;
                             93.05
60-6,167                     72.10
60-6,168                     72.11
60-6,178                     71.52
60-6,179                     71.56
60-6,183                     71.51;
                             93.09
60-6,184                     93.07
60-6,185                     71.30
                             71.31;
60-6,186                     71.49;
                             73.064
60-6,187                     71.31
60-6,188                     71.31
60-6,211.08                  112.03;
                             132.17
60-6,219                     73.016
60-6,243                     71.57
60-6,270                     73.082
60-6,278 through 60-6,282    73.017;
                             73.065
60-6,286                     71.53
60-6,288 through 60-6,290    70.06
60-6,294                     70.06
60-6,304                     71.57
60-6,305                     71.31
60-6,306                     73.018
60-6,308                     71.50
60-6,310                     73.061
60-6,311                     73.062
60-6,312                     73.063
60-6,313                     71.31;
                             73.064
60-6,314                     73.003
60-6,316                     73.002
60-6,338                     73.047
60-6,344                     73.046
60-6,347                     73.034
60-6,348                     73.032
60-6,352                     73.030;
                             73.031
60-6,353                     73.030;
                             73.031
60-6,355                     73.080;
                             73.081
60-6,356                     73.082;
                             73.086
60-6,357                     73.081;
                             73.085
60-6,357 through 60-6,359    73.088
60-6,358                     73.081;
                             73.086
60-6,359                     73.087
60-6,360                     73.088
60-6,361                     73.089
60-6,362                     73.999
60-6,381                     73.106;
                             73.107
60-1901                      132.30
60-1902                      132.30
                             91.23;
60-1903                      132.30;
                             132.32
60-1903.01                   132.30
60-1903.02                   132.30
60-1904                      132.30
60-1905                      132.30
60-1906                      132.30
60-1907                      132.30
60-1908                      132.30
60-1909                      132.30
60-2410                      132.30
70-624.04                    31.04
                             50.03;
70-1601 through 70-1615      52.06;
                             54.063
70-1603                      50.02
70-2103                      130.01
71-423                       112.04
71-1572 et seq.              32.17
71-1637                      34.46
71-1908 et seq.              132.60
71-4402                      92.27
71-4603                      132.30
71-5301                      52.18
72-1201 et seq.              34.10
72-1261 et seq.              34.10
74-1323                      114.06
Ch. 75, art. 3               132.17
77-1343                      152.67
77-1601                      34.48
77-1606                      34.46;
                             34.48
77-1632                      34.48
77-1633                      34.48
77-1725                      150.15
77-1725.01                   150.33
77-2341                      34.10
77-2362                      34.08
77-2365.01                   34.08;
                             34.09
77-2366                      34.08;
                             34.09
77-2386 et seq.              34.08
77-3442                      34.46;
                             90.01
77-3443                      34.46
77-3444                      33.03;
                             34.46
80-202                       34.46
81-145 through 81-162        34.02
81-502                       93.25
81-506                       32.42
81-520                       93.28
81-2005                      71.54
81-3423                      152.27
81-3445                      152.27
81-3449                      152.27
81-3453                      152.27
                             31.23;
84-1407 et seq.              31.46;
                             31.52
84-1408                      31.46
84-1409                      31.45
84-1410                      31.51
                             31.46;
84-1411                      31.47;
                             31.50
84-1411(7)                   31.46
84-1412                      31.52
84-1413                      31.53;
                             31.54
86-329 through 86-331        50.03
                             
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-203              31.23
1-204              31.24
1-205              31.25
1-206              31.26
1-208              31.29
1-211              31.31
1-510              31.48
1-513              31.55
1-514              31.56
1-515              31.57
1-702              33.03
1-707              33.07
1-708              33.08
1-709              33.09
1-812              34.02
1-813              34.01
1-818              34.08
1-824              34.03
1-903              31.05
1-1001             36.06
1-1101             35.20;
                   35.21
1-1102             35.22
1-1103             35.23
1-1104             35.24
1-1105             35.25
1-1106             35.26
1-1107             35.27
1-1108             35.28
1-1109             35.29
1-1110             35.30
1-1111             35.31
1-1112             35.32
1-1113             35.33
1-1114             35.99
1-1201             36.01
1-1301             36.02
1-1401             36.04
1-1501             36.99
2-101              32.01
2-104              32.16
2-105              32.17
2-106              32.17
2-107              32.17
2-108              32.18
2-109              32.18
2-110              32.18
2-111              32.18
2-112              32.19
2-113              32.20
2-114              32.02
2-115              32.21
3-101              52.02
3-102              52.01
3-103              52.03
3-104              52.04
3-105              52.05
3-106              52.05
3-107              52.06
3-108              52.07
3-109              52.08
3-110              52.09
3-111              52.10
3-112              52.11
3-113              52.12
3-114              52.13
3-115              52.65
3-116              52.15
3-117              52.66
3-118              52.16
3-119              52.14
3-120              52.17
3-121              52.18
3-123              52.19
3-124              52.20
3-125              52.35
3-126              52.36
3-127              52.37
3-128              52.67
3-129              52.50
3-130              52.68
3-131              52.51
3-132              52.52
3-133              52.53
3-134              52.54
3-135              53.01
3-136              53.01
3-137              53.02
3-138              53.03
3-139              53.04
3-140              53.05
3-141              53.06
3-201              54.002
3-202              54.001
3-203              54.003
3-204              54.004
3-205              54.005
3-206              54.006
3-207              54.007
3-208              54.060
3-209              54.008
3-210              54.062
3-211              54.063
3-212              54.061
3-213              54.075
3-214              54.009
3-215              54.095
3-216              54.096
3-217              54.025
3-218              54.026
3-219              54.026
3-220              54.027
3-221              54.028
3-222              54.029
3-223              54.040
3-224              54.040
3-225              54.041
3-226              54.042
3-227              54.043
3-228              54.044
3-229              54.045
3-230              54.046
3-231              54.047
3-232              54.076
3-233              54.077
3-234              54.078
3-235              54.079
3-236              54.080
3-237              54.081
3-238              54.082
3-239              54.082
3-240              54.010
3-241              54.083
3-242              54.099
3-243              54.099
3-244              54.099
3-245              54.999
3-246              54.097
3-247              54.011
3-248              54.098
3-306              32.40
3-308              32.43
3-309              32.44
3-311              32.45
3-312              32.99
3-401              51.02
3-402              51.03
3-403              51.12
3-404              51.12
3-405              51.12
3-406              51.04
3-407              51.05
3-408              51.06
3-409              51.07
3-410              51.01
3-411              51.08
3-412              51.09
3-413              51.10
3-414              51.11
3-415              51.99
3-502              90.03
3-504              90.04
3-601              90.20
3-602              90.21
3-603              90.22
3-604              90.23
3-605              90.24
3-606              90.25;
                   90.99
3-701              50.01
3-801              36.05
3-802              36.05
3-803              36.05
3-804              36.05
3-901              55.01
3-902              55.02
3-903              55.03
3-904              55.04
3-1001             90.40
3-1002             90.41
3-1003             90.42
3-1004             90.43
3-1101             90.99
4-501              53.20
4-502              53.21
4-503              53.22
4-504              53.23
4-505              53.24
4-506              53.25
4-507              53.26
4-508              53.27
4-509              53.28
5-105              71.03
5-106              71.02
5-201              71.45
5-205              71.47
5-206              71.48
5-207              71.49
5-208              71.49
5-209              71.50
5-210              71.51
5-211              71.51
5-212              71.52
5-213              71.53
5-214              71.54
5-215              71.55
5-216              71.56
5-218              71.57
5-219              71.57
5-221              71.58
5-222              71.01
5-223              71.04
5-224              71.15
5-225              71.16
5-226              71.01
5-227              71.59
5-228              73.999
5-230              72.13
5-231              72.14
5-308              72.30
5-309              72.31
5-310              72.32
5-311              72.34;
                   72.99
5-320              72.33
5-324              72.15
5-401              73.001
5-402              73.002
5-403              73.003
5-501              73.015
5-502              73.016
5-503              73.017
5-504              73.018
5-601              73.030;
                   73.031
5-602              73.032
5-603              73.033
5-604              73.034
5-701              73.045
5-702              73.046
5-703              73.047
5-704              73.048
5-705              73.049
5-801              73.060
5-802              73.061
5-803              73.062
5-804              73.063
5-805              73.064
5-806              73.065
5-901              73.080;
                   73.081
5-902              73.082
5-903              73.083
5-904              73.084
5-905              73.085
5-906              73.086
5-907              73.087
5-908              73.088
5-909              73.089
5-910              73.999
5-911              73.090
5-1001             70.08
5-1101             70.99
6-303              130.04
6-305              130.05
6-309              132.04
6-316              131.06
6-321              132.32
6-324              10.99
6-325              131.02;
                   131.99
6-326              130.07
6-327              10.99
6-401              132.60
6-402              132.61
6-403              132.62
6-404              132.63
6-405              132.99
7-101              93.01
7-102              93.02
7-103              93.03
7-104              93.04
7-105              93.05
7-106              93.06
7-107              93.07
7-108              93.08
7-109              93.09
7-110              93.10
7-111              93.11;
                   93.99
7-201              93.25
7-202              93.26
7-203              93.27
7-204              93.28
7-205              93.29
7-206              93.29
7-207              93.30
7-301              93.45
7-401              93.60
7-402              93.61
7-403              93.62
7-404              93.62
7-405              93.63
7-501              93.46
7-601              93.99
8-103              152.25
8-106              152.41
8-108              152.26
8-307              152.62
8-308              152.63
8-309              152.64
8-314              152.65
8-316              152.66
8-317              152.67
8-501              152.99
9-104              150.03
9-207              150.99
9-301              150.15
10-118             112.39
10-125             112.42
10-201             151.01
10-301             110.20
10-302             110.20
10-501             111.01
10-502             111.01
10-503             111.15
10-504             111.16
10-505             111.16
10-506             111.16
10-507             111.17
10-508             111.17
10-509             111.17
10-510             111.17
10-511             111.18
10-603             110.21
10-604             114.01
10-605             114.02
10-606             114.03
10-607             114.04
10-608             114.05;
                   114.99
10-609             114.06
10-701             110.01
10-702             110.02
10-703             110.03
10-704             110.04
10-705             110.05
10-706             110.06
10-801             111.19
10-901             112.99
11-101             154.01
11-201             153.01
11-202             153.02
11-203             153.03
11-204             153.09
11-205             153.10
11-206             153.12
11-207             153.11
11-208             153.05
11-209             153.25
11-210             153.25
11-211             153.04
11-212             153.26
11-213             153.27
11-214             153.28
11-215             153.40
11-216             153.41
11-217             153.06
11-218             153.07
11-219             153.29
11-220             153.29
11-221             153.08
11-222             153.99
12-101             37.01
12-102             37.02
12-103             37.02
12-201             50.05
12-202             50.05
12-203             50.02
12-204             50.04
12-205             50.03
12-206             50.99
13-402             37.03
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
3          11-9-1994   TSO Table VIII
2000-01    2-23-2000   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2001-09    1-24-2001   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2001-16    2-28-2001   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2001-18    5-9-2001    TSO Table III
2001-18    6-13-2001   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2001-19    6-13-2001   TSO Table VI
2003-05    1-22-2003   TSO Table VIII
2003-16    8-13-2003   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2004-      7-22-2004   TSO Table VIII
2005-05    2-23-2005   TSO Table V
2006-01    1-11-2006   TSO Table II
2006-05    5-24-2006   TSO Table VII
2006-06    5-24-2006   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2006-08    8-9-2006    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2006-12    9-13-2006   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2007-09    11-28-2007  TSO Table V
2011-06-01 7-13-2011   TSO Table V
2013-01-01 1-23-2013   TSO Table V
2013-11-01 11-13-2013  TSO Table V
2014-05-01 5-28-2014   36.04
2014-11-01 11-12-2014  36.04
2016-01-01 1-27-2016   36.04
2017-01-01 1-25-2017   TSO Table V
2017-04-01 4-10-2017   36.04
2017-08-01 8- -2017    36.04
2017-10-01 11-8-2017   TSO Table I
—        6- -2018    36.04
2018-06-02 6-13-2018   36.04
2018-06-01 6-27-2018   36.04
—        7- -2018    36.04
2018-07-01 8-8-2018    36.04
2018-07-02 9-12-2018   36.04
2018-09-27 10-10-2018  36.04
2018-09-28 10-10-2018  36.04
2018-09-29 10-10-2018  36.04
2018-11-01 11-14-2018  36.04
2018-12-01 12-12-2018  36.04
2019-01-03 1-23-2019   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2019-01-04 1-23-2019   36.04
2019-02-02 2-27-2019   36.04
2019-03-02 3-27-2019   Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2019-03-04 3-27-2019   36.04
2019-05-01 5-8-2019    37.02
2019-11-01 11-13-2019  36.04
2019-12-01 12-11-2019  TSO Table VIII
2020-03-01 3-25-2020   TSO Table IX
2020-05-02 5-27-2020   TSO Table IX
2020-09-02 9-23-2020   36.04
2021-06-01 6-23-2021   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2021-08-08 8- -2021    TSO Table X
2021-09-01 9-8-2021    37.02
2021-09-03 9-22-2021   36.03
2021-10-01 11- -2021   36.04
2021-11-02 11-10-2021  TSO Table II
2022-02-01 2- -2022    34.49
2022-02-04 2-23-2022   37.02
2022-03-02 3-23-2022   37.02
2022-05-01 5-11-2022   37.02
2022-07-02 7-22-2022   37.02
2022-08-05 8-24-2022   36.04
2022-09-11 10- -2022   36.04
2023-02-02 2- -2023    36.04
2023-03-01 3- -2023    TSO Table VIII
2023-03-02 3- -2023    37.02
2023-05-01 5-10-2023   91.19
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      - -         TSO Table X
—      - -         Ch. 75, Sch. I
459      - -         72.15
183      8-30-1972   32.18
198      1-12-1976   36.01
223      5-14-1979   32.18
224      7-9-1979    93.11;
                     93.99
233      8-19-1981   Ch. 75, Sch. I
240      3-8-1982    152.26
251      1-9-1984    Ch. 74, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. III
263      12-10-1986  32.18
266      12-9-1987   37.03
302      1-9-1991    32.19
326      12-9-1992   90.04
351      3-9-1994    32.19
352      3-9-1994    32.18
353      4-13-1994   TSO Table II
354      4-13-1994   32.19
358      9-14-1994   51.01;
                     51.03
364      3-8-1995    TSO Table V
367      8-9-1995    Ch. 74, Sch. II
385      3-13-1996   152.26
386      3-27-1996   TSO Table II
388      4-10-1996   TSO Table VI
389      5-8-1996    Ch. 75, Sch. I
390      5-22-1996   Ch. 75, Sch. I
404      2-25-1998   TSO Table I
411      5-26-1999   Ch. 74, Sch. II
414      10-6-1999   TSO Table III
428      5-30-2001   Ch. 74, Sch. I
429      6-13-2001   71.58
442      5-14-2003   70.08
445      6-11-2003   Ch. 74, Sch. I
446      7-9-2003    Ch. 74, Sch. I
449      6-23-2004   32.37
450      6-23-2004   35.23
451      6-23-2004   33.03
453      6-23-2004   34.08
454      6-23-2004   152.25
456      6-23-2004   150.03
460      4-27-2005   132.32
464      6-22-2005   52.05
2006-04  4-18-2006   TSO Table VII
2006-05  4-18-2006   TSO Table VII
2006-06  4-18-2006   TSO Table VII
466      6-28-2006   132.99
476      11-8-2006   36.99
478      2-14-2007   150.15
469      4-11-2007   TSO Table VII
470      4-11-2007   TSO Table VII
471      4-11-2007   TSO Table VII
485      6-13-2007   TSO Table VII
497      2-27-2008   32.19
500      4-26-2008   TSO Table VII
501      4-26-2008   TSO Table VII
502      4-26-2008   TSO Table VII
503      4-26-2008   TSO Table VII
512      10-8-2008   TSO Table II
514      11-12-2008  34.02
517      1-14-2009   TSO Table II
528      4-14-2010   TSO Table III
529      4-14-2010   TSO Table III
530      4-14-2010   TSO Table III
535      7-28-2010   TSO Table III
539      12-8-2010   31.23;
                     31.31
540      12-8-2010   31.23
542      4-27-2011   50.04
543      4-27-2011   50.05
545      4-27-2011   50.05
546      4-27-2011   50.99
547      4-27-2011   50.03
548      4-27-2011   50.02
551      5-25-2011   73.086
553      5-25-2011   112.41
552      6- -2011    32.19
554      9-28-2011   154.01
555      9-28-2011   154.02
568      6-13-2012   TSO Table V
568      9-12-2012   TSO Table I
571      1-9-2013    TSO Table V
572      1-9-2013    36.04
574      7-24-2013   53.20—
                     53.28
                     91.01;
575      7-24-2013   91.15—
                     91.24;
                     91.99
576      8-14-2013   37.02
577      8-14-2013   91.25;
                     91.99
580      8-28-2013   31.05
578      9-11-2013   34.03
587      4-9-2014    52.05
588      4-9-2014    50.05
586      4-23-2014   TSO Table VII
591      8-13-2014   90.05
                     73.080—
592      8-13-2014   73.090;
                     73.999
594      9-10-2014   31.05
595      10-8-2014   132.03
596      10-15-2014  132.03
597      12-10-2014  31.05
599      3-11-2015   31.57
600      3-25-2015   32.37
605      9-9-2015    TSO Table I
606      9-23-2015   31.05
607      12-9-2015   Ch. 74, Sch. II
611      3-9-2016    152.56
612      9-28-2016   31.05
616      4-26-2017   TSO Table V
615      5-10-2017   31.05
617      10-11-2017  130.08
618      5-9-2018    31.05
619      5-9-2018    52.03;
                     52.07
621      6-13-2018   36.02
622      8-8-2018    TSO Table II
623      9-26-2018   31.48
625      9-26-2018   31.05
627      10-10-2018  72.14
630      2-13-2019   37.02
632      2-13-2019   53.03
631      2-27-2019   92.99
633      5-8-2019    37.02
                     73.105—
636      5-8-2019    73.110;
                     73.999
641      9-25-2019   TSO Table II
642      9-25-2019   31.05
640      11-13-2019  TSO Table II
643      12-11-2019  TSO Table IV
644      12-11-2019  TSO Table IV
646      1-8-2020    130.04
647      2-12-2020   91.35—91.37;
                     91.99
648      3-11-2020   91.36
649      4-22-2020   91.02
650      7-8-2020    31.05
652      9-9-2020    93.61
651      9-14-2020   72.05
653      2-24-2021   31.56
655      9-8-2021    TSO Table IV
656      10-13-2021  31.05
658      5-25-2022   34.49
659      6-8-2022    112.41
                     92.01—
                     92.14;
657      6-22-2022   92.25—
                     92.30;
                     92.99
660      7-13-2022   34.49
662      10-12-2022  32.21
663      10-26-2022  31.05
664      12-14-2022  32.20
665      2-8-2023    34.49
669      7-12-2023   32.23
670      8-9-2023    32.22
                     113.01;
                     113.02;
671      10-11-2023  113.15—
                     113.20;
                     113.99
672      11-8-2023   31.05
                    
 
