WEEPING WATER, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains state legislation through October 1, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City Code of
Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The city adopting this
code.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and the adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. The county in Nebraska in which the city is located.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies, and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended, or its application to
any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, then the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving, or fines,
penalties, forfeitures, or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedications of land to
public use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture, or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued
in force unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
      copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this city code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the city may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same in the
manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-505
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
      
31.   APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS; ORDINANCES
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Election; qualifications; term
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.16   President; Acting President
   
30.17   Standing committees
   
30.18   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.19   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
30.30   Grant of power
   
30.31   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.32   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.33   Ordinances; style, title
   
30.34   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
30.35   Publication or posting
   
30.36   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.37   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.38   Amendments and revisions
MAYOR
§ 30.01 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be elected as provided in the Election Act, Neb. RS
32-101 through 32-1551. The Mayor shall take office on the date of the first
regular meeting of the City Council held in December following the statewide
general election. The Mayor shall be a resident and registered voter of the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve for a term of four years or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
      (2)   (a)   The Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either a
majority vote of the City Council or a majority vote of all the elected members
of the City Council if:
            1.   The Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
            2.   A majority of the City Council members or majority vote of all
the elected members cannot be reached due to the absence, vacancy, or
abstention of one or more City Council members.
         (b)   For the purpose of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member
of the City Council.
      (3)    The Mayor shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city, and shall take care that the ordinances of
the city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim.
      (1)   If the Mayor approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
contract, or claim, he or she shall sign it, and it shall become effective.
      (2)   If the Mayor vetoes the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution,
contract, or any item or items of appropriation or claims, he or she shall
return it to the City Council stating that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may
issue the veto at the meeting at which the measure passed or within seven
calendar days after the meeting. If the Mayor issues the veto after the
meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City Clerk of the veto in writing. The
Clerk shall notify the City Council in writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order,
bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract, or the
allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his or her veto
by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Council. If the Mayor neglects or
refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim, but fails to veto the
measure within the time required by this section, the measure shall become
effective without his or her signature. The Mayor may veto any item or items of
any appropriation bill or any claims bill and approve the remainder thereof,
and the item or items vetoed may be passed by the Council over the veto as in
other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort, and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term until such disability is removed, or
in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107, 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All Council members shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, the city shall be divided into not less than two nor more than six
wards as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward shall contain, as
nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, each ward of the city shall have at least two Council members
elected in the manner provided in the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. No
person shall be eligible to the office of Council member who is not at the time
of the election an actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected
and a registered voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any Council member who ceases to possess any of
the qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a
felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. RS 19-613)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603, and 32-604
§ 30.16 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.17 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members of such standing committees as the Council may create by ordinance or
resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a term of office
of one year unless reappointed.
§ 30.18 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of a member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560, except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (C)(3)
below or §
30.03, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting, at
which time, the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council
shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee,
the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall, at
the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination, and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies. Candidates for such special election
shall file a candidate filing form pursuant to §
34.07(C).
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.19 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the City Council shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Council unless the absences are excused by
a majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The City Council shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s
absence from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the City Clerk; or
      (2)   A motion of any other Council member.
   (C)   If a Council member has been absent from six consecutive regular
meetings and none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the
remaining members, the City Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda
for the next regular meeting. At that meeting, the Council shall set a date for
a hearing and direct the City Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by
personal service or by first-class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Council member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the
Council does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote
at the conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS
§ 30.30 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions not inconsistent with the laws of the state as may be expedient for
maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the city and its trade
and commerce and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for
the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with
costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.31 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways.
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration.
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.32 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions shall be
introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.31 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the City Council. A majority vote shall be required
to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be
by roll call vote.
§ 30.33 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of __________, Nebraska: ….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.34 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the
appropriation or payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption
the concurrence of a majority of all elected members of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote on any such matter if:
            1.   The Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members
being equally divided; or
            2.   A majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council
cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy, or abstention of one or more City
Council members.
         (b)   For the purpose of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to be a member
of the City Council.
      (2)   (a)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by
title on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement.
         (b)   Such requirement shall not be suspended:
            1.   For any ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the
redrawing of boundaries for City Council election districts or wards; or
            2.   As otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.35 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In a newspaper in or of general circulation in the city; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 30.36 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval, and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.37 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.35 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the city which
has been adopted by the City Council without submission to the voters of the
city shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council, and be entered of record on
the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.38 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
   Requests to detach property from city or village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   City Clerk
   
31.05   City Treasurer
   
31.06   City Attorney
   
31.07   Police Chief
   
31.08   Police officers
   
31.09   Fire Chief
   
31.10   Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
31.11   Sewer Commissioner
   
31.12   Overseer of Streets
   
31.13   City Engineer; Special Engineer
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year, unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
33.25 and
33.26. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond shall qualify
by filing the required oath as provided in §
33.26.
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may, at its discretion, by ordinance combine and
merge any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of
duties of any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Council member,
with any other elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more
of such offices or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices
or employments may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02)
§ 31.04 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq., the Clerk may transfer the
journal of the proceedings of the City Council to the State Archives of the
Nebraska State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall
also perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of the
city. If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with
the requirements of §
31.05(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq. This shall not apply to the minutes of
the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record
classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to the creation of paving
districts and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of
any person against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed, in
part or in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall
then prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all
proper cases.
§ 31.05 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council under oath, showing the state of the Treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the Treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or 17-606(2).
Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be charged
and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register and carry the amounts forward, and
at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city whenever paid by him or
her by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer,”
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
§ 31.06 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute, and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted, or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises, and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law insofar as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.07 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall direct the police work of the city and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of law and order. Unless the Mayor and City
Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act as Health Inspector and Building
Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
Cross-reference:
   Police Department provisions, see §§
32.40 through
32.43
§ 31.08 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint
such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All police
officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted, or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) below. A
police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City Council
such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the
City Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the action.
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion, or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall
include a procedure for such removal, demotion, or suspension with or without
pay of any police officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written
accusation of the Police Chief, the Mayor, or any citizen or taxpayer. The City
Council shall establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written
accusation in accordance with Neb. RS 17-107.
         (b)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section, in cases
of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council. The
Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
      (2)   (a)   A member of a law enforcement reserve force appointed under
this section cannot make arrests, issue citations, detain members of the
public, or seize evidence without being under the direct supervision of a
physically present certified law enforcement officer.
         (b)   A reserve officer may perform functions at the direction of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police when under the direct supervision of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police. Such functions shall not include making
arrests, issuing citations, detaining members of the public, or seizing
evidence.
         (c)   A reserve officer is not limited with respect to the amount of
hours worked annually.
(Neb. RS 81-1438)
Cross-reference:
   Police Department provisions, see §§
32.40 through
32.43
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on law enforcement reserve forces, see Neb. RS 81-1439
through 81-1446
§ 31.09 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes, and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department provisions, see §§
32.20 through
32.29
§ 31.10 WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the city, the Mayor shall nominate and, by and with the advice and consent of
the City Council, shall appoint any competent person, who shall be known as the
Water Commissioner of the city, and whose term of office shall be for one
fiscal year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Annually
at the first regular meeting of the City Council in December, the Water
Commissioner shall be appointed as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time for sufficient cause be
removed by a two-thirds vote of the City Council. Any vacancy occurring in the
office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office, or
removal from the city may be filled in the manner provided in this section for
the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the city in a sum to be fixed by the Mayor and Council,
but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her
duties, and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Mayor and Council or executed by a corporate
surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the city.
      (5)   In a city where no Board of Public Works exists and the city has
other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Mayor and Council shall
by ordinance designate the Water Commissioner as the Public Works Commissioner,
with the authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but also other
public utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A) applying to
the Water Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
city on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor
in duplicate, filing one of the same with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council at least
once every six months of the condition of the water system, of all mains,
pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery, and such improvements, repairs, and
extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall show the
amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the preceding six
months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or extensions of
the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Water Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the Council may
by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written recommendation, the Mayor and
Council shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them seem necessary.
      (5)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall be eligible
to the office of Water Commissioner during the term for which he or she was
elected.
      (6)   If the city owns public utilities other than the waterworks system
and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the Public Works
Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all provisions of
this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall apply to the
Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
   (C)   In the event the city shall have created a Board of Public Works as
provided in §
32.06, the Water Commissioner shall, subject to confirmation by Mayor and
Council, be employed thereafter by the Board at such reasonable compensation as
may be agreed upon at the time of such employment and shall thereafter be under
the jurisdiction of the Board, any of the provisions of Neb. RS 17-501 through
17-560 to the contrary notwithstanding. Any Water Commissioner under the
jurisdiction and control of the Board of Public Works may be removed by the
Board, after an opportunity to be heard before the Mayor and Council if he or
she shall so request, for malfeasance, misfeasance, or neglect in office.
(Neb. RS 17-804)
§ 31.11 SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Sewer Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the sewer system
in the city.
   (B)   He or she shall collect all money received by the city on account of
its sewer system and shall faithfully account for and pay over the same to the
City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one of
the same with the City Clerk.
   (C)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council at least
once every six months of the condition of the sewer system and such
improvements, repairs, and extensions thereof as he or she may think proper.
The report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account
thereof for the preceding six months.
   (D)   He or she shall issue permits for all connections to the sewer system
and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the system.
   (E)   The Sewer Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
§ 31.12 OVERSEER OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Mayor and
Council, have general charge, direction, and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the city, and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
   (B)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
   (C)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council, make a detailed
report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts,
alleys, and bridges of the city and shall direct its attention to such
improvements, repairs, and extensions thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (D)   The Overseer of Streets shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.13 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light systems, waterworks, power plants, public
heating systems, bridges, curbing, and gutters, the improvement of streets, and
the erection and repair of buildings, and shall perform such other duties as
the City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Board of Park Commissioners
   
32.06   Board of Public Works
Fire Department
   
32.20   Operation and funding
   
32.21   Fire Chief
   
32.22   Membership
   
32.23   Records
   
32.24   Fires
   
32.25   Distant fires
   
32.26   Inspections
   
32.27   Notice of violation
   
32.28   Power of arrest
   
32.29   Fire investigation
Police Department
   
32.40   Duties
   
32.41   Reserve officer bond
   
32.42   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.43   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   When the City Council has decided by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219,
and except as otherwise provided by the Council pursuant to Neb. RS 51-202, the
Library Board shall have five appointed members, who shall be residents of the
city and who shall serve terms of four years. The Board members shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City Council. Neither the
Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member of the Library
Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the
number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members
shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of vacancies
by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the vacancy
for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any
services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
President and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or a majority of
the members of the Board.
Cross-reference:
   Library provisions, see
Chapter 90
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of five,
seven, or nine regular members, as specified by the City Council by ordinance,
who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When
there are 500 residents in the area over which the city exercises
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the
Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is determined by the City
Council that 500 residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial
zoning or subdivision regulation and no such resident is a regular member of
the Commission, the first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled
by the appointment of such an individual. A number of Commissioners equal to a
majority of the number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. All regular members of
the Commission shall serve without compensation. The term of each regular
member shall be three years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular
members of the first Commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one
year, one-third or fewer for terms of two years, and the remaining members for
terms of three years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
Council, be removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote of the
members elected to the Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Council. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the City Council;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
         (d) A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. RS 18-2715.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The City Council may require the
Commission to meet more frequently, and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but not more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment, and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council, and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 through 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city,
including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment,
bear relation to the planning of such city, and including a comprehensive
development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested city departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the Comprehensive
Development Plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
Commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the Comprehensive Development Plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter, or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for the subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks if
the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb. RS 19-
916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the City Council, in
its own name;
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public/private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the city;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the City Council may
choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Council regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the District Court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (B) below, the Council
shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken
by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (F)
below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
City Council, serve as the Zoning Board of Adjustment for the city. If the city
is located in more than one county, it shall be served, by request or
otherwise, only by the county zoning board of adjustment of the county in which
the greatest area of the city is located, and the jurisdiction of such county
zoning board of adjustment shall include all portions of the city and its
extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
    (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearing. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as
more than 200 persons reside within such area if the Board does not already
include such a person. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the
Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the
city but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 through 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office, except
for the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of Adjustment a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such cases, proceedings shall not
be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application of notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (F)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the City Council, have only
the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any
zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of
structures, except that the authority to hear and to decide appeals shall not
apply to decisions made by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a
conditional use or special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 through 19-904.01 and division (C) above and this division (F) would result
in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue
hardships upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal
relating to the property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the intent and purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (F), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (G)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the city, may present to the District Court a petition duly
verified setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the Court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board. Upon the filing of such petition, a summons shall be issued and be
served upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition.
Return of service shall be made within four days after the issuance of the
summons. Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board of
Adjustment shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the
substantial averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the
Board with reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition.
The answer shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At
the expiration of the time for filing the answer, the Court shall proceed to
hear and determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon
according to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the Court
that testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may
take evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and
report the same to the Court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions
of law, which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the
determination of the Court shall be made. The Court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal
to the District Court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed
from, but the Court may, on application, on notice to the Board, and on due
cause shown, grant a restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the
District Court shall be prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the
state regulating appeals in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of four members: the Mayor,
who shall be Chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a
Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
Quarantine Officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them,
and may provide fines and punishments for the violation of such rules and
regulations. The Board shall have the power to and shall make all needful rules
and regulations relating to matters of the sanitation of the city, including
the removal of dead animals, the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys,
vacant grounds, stockyards, cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies,
waterclosets, cesspools, stables, and all buildings and places not specified
where filth, nuisances, or offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does
accumulate. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances
and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the city relating to
nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board shall also have
control of hospitals, dispensaries, places for treatment of the sick, and
matters relating to the same under such restrictions and provisions as may be
provided by ordinance of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health other than the Mayor, President of
the Council, and Chief of Police shall serve terms of office of the length
specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk, where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the General Fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
Cross-reference:
   Health and safety regulations, see
Chapter 91
§ 32.05 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the creation of a
Board of Park Commissioners or Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners
pursuant to Neb. RS 17-952, the Board shall be composed of not less than three
members, who shall be residents of the city and who shall have charge of all
parks and recreational facilities belonging to the city, and shall have the
power to establish rules for the management, care, and use of the same.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (B)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall serve as a
member of the Board while serving a term of office as Mayor or member of the
City Council. The members of the Board shall serve terms of office of the
length specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board shall organize at its meeting after appointments are
regularly considered by the City Council and select members to serve as
chairperson and secretary. No member of the Board shall hold more than one
Board position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk, where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (E)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation. The Board
shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund.
   (F)   All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from time to time,
designate.
§ 32.06 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Whenever the city has or is about to establish or acquire any system
of waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system and the City Council has created a Board of
Public Works, the Board shall consist of not less than three nor more than six
members, residents of the city, to be appointed by the Mayor subject to the
approval of the City Council. The members may be removed by the Mayor and a
majority of the members elected to the City Council at any time. The term of
the first members of the Board shall be one, two, three, or four years in the
manner designated by the Mayor, as the case may be, after which the term of
each member shall be four years, and the terms of not more than two members
shall expire at any one time.
(Neb. RS 17-801)
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall have the active direction and
supervision of any or all of the utility systems owned or operated by the city
as conferred on it by the City Council. The City Council shall approve the
budget of each proprietary function as provided in the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq. The Board shall have the power to operate
any utility referred to it and to exercise all powers conferred by law upon the
city for the operation and government of such utility to the same extent, in
the same manner, and under the same restrictions as the City Council could do
if no such Board of Public Works existed, except that the Board of Public Works
shall not make any expenditure or contract any indebtedness, other than for
ordinary running expenses, exceeding the amount established by the City Council
without first obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Board of Public
Works shall report to the City Council at regular intervals as it may require.
(Neb. RS 17-802)
   (C)   If so authorized and empowered by the Mayor and Council, the Board of
Public Works may cooperate and participate in a plan of insurance designed and
intended for the benefit of the employees of any public utility operated by the
city. For that purpose the Board of Public Works may make contributions to pay
premiums or dues under such plan, authorize deductions from the salaries of
employees, and take such other steps as may be necessary to effectuate such
plan of insurance.
(Neb. RS 17-802.01)
   (D)   The members of the Board of Public Works shall organize as soon as
practicable after their appointment by electing a chairperson and secretary,
who shall serve until the first meeting in June next following; and thereafter,
the Board shall elect a chairperson and secretary at the first meeting in June
each year. In the absence of the regular officers, temporary officers to serve
in their places may be chosen by the members present at any meeting. They shall
establish regular times for meeting and may adopt such rules as may be
necessary or desirable for the conduct of their business. They shall keep a
record of their proceedings, and if there is a legal newspaper published in or
of general circulation in the city, shall publish therein the minutes of each
meeting within 30 days after it is held.
(Neb. RS 17-805)
   (E)   Each of the members of the Board of Public Works shall take an oath to
discharge faithfully the duties of the office before entering upon the
discharge thereof. Each of the members of the Board before entering upon the
duties of the office shall be required to give bond to the city with corporate
surety. Such bond shall be in the sum of $5,000 and shall be conditioned for
the faithful performance of the duties of member of the Board of Public Works,
and the surety on such bond shall be approved by the Mayor and Council and
shall be filed with the City Treasurer, provided that the premium on the bond
shall be paid out of any public utility fund designated by the Mayor and
Council.
(Neb. RS 17-806)
   (F)   No member of the Board of Public Works shall ever be financially
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract entered into by them on
behalf of such city for more than $10,000 in one year.
(Neb. RS 17-807)
   (G)   If the Board determines that the best interests of the city and the
patrons of the utility will be better or more economically served, they may
employ the duly elected City Clerk as ex officio bookkeeper and collector for
the utility or utilities, and he or she may be paid a reasonable salary for the
extra services required of him or her in such position in addition to his or
her salary as the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-808)
   (H)   Rates or charges for service may be fixed or changed by resolution
duly adopted by the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. RS 17-810)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   The city shall have the power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets, and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder, and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government of the Fire
Department with such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not
exceeding $100, and to make all necessary appropriations for the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
   (C)   If the city has only a voluntary Fire Department or companies, the
City Council may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100 upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property within the city for the
maintenance and benefit of the Fire Department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the City Treasurer
shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the approval of
the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction, and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.21 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hoses, ladders,
or other apparatus need repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
City Council, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the City Council at
the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the
City Council of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.22 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company, to the value
of $500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   (1)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the city while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the State Workers’ Compensation Act, Neb. RS 48-101
et seq., shall be recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to
act for the Chief for membership therein to the Mayor and City Council and,
upon confirmation, shall be deemed employees of the city. Members of the Fire
Department after confirmation to membership may be removed by a majority vote
of the City Council, and thereafter, shall not be considered employees of the
city.
      (2)   Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting
in the performance and within the course and scope of their employment when
performing activities outside of the corporate limits of the city, but only if
directed to do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the
Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves.
The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any
cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent
form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall terminate
as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For the purpose of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee, or mileage fee by an employee of the city called as a witness
in connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer
firefighters and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall
not be deemed employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the city code or the laws of the
state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The Secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
§ 32.23 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of
the Fire Department, the attendance record of all members, and a record of all
fires and shall make a full report of these records to the City Clerk during
the last week in April each year. The record of any fire shall include the
cause, origin, circumstances, property involved, and whether criminal conduct
may have been involved. In the event of sizable property damage, the Fire Chief
shall include the information of whether the losses were covered by insurance,
and if so, in what amount. All records shall be available to the public at any
reasonable time.
§ 32.24 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city, and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws, and other rules and regulations with
respect to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.25 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any
agreement with a fire district for mutual aid protection, such fire equipment
of the city as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the City Council or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for
the Chief, and in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council.
§ 32.26 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, where a Fire Department is established, or the Mayor
where no Fire Department exists, at all reasonable hours may enter into all
buildings and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purposes
of examination in harmony with Neb. RS 81-501.01 through 81-531, the State
Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, Neb. RS 81-542 et seq., the Petroleum
Products and Hazardous Substances Storage and Handling Act, Neb. RS 81-15,117
et seq., and any other statutory duties imposed upon the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
City Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members, or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than
two times a year, all buildings, premises, and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale, and use of flammable liquids, combustibles, and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and adequacy of exits, in
case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals, and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose, whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation, and operation of equipment for storing,
handling, and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the odorization
of such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics,
nitrocellulose films, or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter
exist.
§ 32.27 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the city code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant, or manager of the
premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant, or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant, or
manager may, within five days after the order by the Fire Chief or his or her
agent, appeal the order with the City Council requesting a review, and it shall
be the duty of the City Council to hear the same within not less than five days
nor more than ten days from the time when the request was filed in writing with
the City Clerk. The City Council shall then affirm, modify, or rescind the
order as safety and justice may require, and the decision shall then be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. The order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident that
reasonable safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the
probable hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A
copy of any decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the
owner, occupant, or manager making the appeal.
§ 32.28 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort, or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of city police officers to command all persons to assist them in the
performance of their duties.
§ 32.29 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the
cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which
property has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as
to whether the fire was the result of carelessness, accident, or design.
   (B)   The investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the
fire, and the State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct
the investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The
officer making the investigation of fires occurring in the city shall forthwith
notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one week of the occurrence of
the fire, furnish to him or her a written statement of all the facts relating
to the cause and origin of the fire and such further information as he or she
may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall devote his or her whole time
to city affairs and the interests of the city and to the preservation of the
peace, order, safety, and cleanliness thereof.
   (C)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of
persons and property. The Department shall take notice of all nuisances,
impediments, obstructions, and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys,
business places, and residences of the city. The Department shall execute, or
cause to be executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested
to be brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The
Chief of Police and all regular and special police officers shall become
thoroughly conversant with the laws of the city and shall see that the same are
strictly enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons
for violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every city police officer
making a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other
person, whenever possible, and to carefully keep and produce to the proper
judicial official upon trial everything found upon the person of such
prisoners. All personal effects so taken from prisoners shall be restored to
them upon their release. The Police Chief and other police officers shall file
such reports as may be required by the city ordinances and the laws of the
state. No law enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment
having a liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have the full power and authority to call
on any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties,
and failure, neglect, or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Refusing to aid a police officer, see §
132.03
§ 32.41 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the City
Clerk by the individual appointed or a blanket surety bond arranged and paid
for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the City Council, has
been filed. These bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Neb. RS Chapter
11, Article 1.
(Neb. RS 81-1444)
§ 32.42 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The police officers of the city shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail, or other place of confinement to prevent their escape
until trial can be had before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village,
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, Neb. RS 13-801 et seq., or the Joint Public Agency Act, Neb. RS 13-2501 et
seq., enters into a contract with any other city or county for law enforcement
services or joint law enforcement services, law enforcement personnel may have
this enforcement authority within the jurisdiction of each of the participating
political subdivisions if provided for in the agreement. Unless otherwise
provided in the agreement, the city shall provide liability insurance coverage
for its own law enforcement personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or is
in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug, or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do
any of the following, or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post- arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency, or civil defense emergency, or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the State Emergency Management
Agency or with any other related training program, the law enforcement
personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this state or any
legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they are
rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall self-insure or
contract for insurance against any liability for personal injuries or property
damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as the result of any
movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
§ 32.43 OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal or discipline of any police officer, including the Chief
of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure for making application for
an appeal, specifications on the period of time within which such application
shall be made, and provisions on the manner in which the appeals hearing shall
be conducted.
      (2)   Both the police officer and the individual imposing the
disciplinary action shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to
present evidence to the Council for its consideration.
      (3)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the Council to act
within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected Council members to
vote to reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall be construed
as a vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The decision of the
Council shall be based upon its determination that, under the facts and
evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or disciplinary
action was necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of
the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of
the state.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this division, in
cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided otherwise in an ordinance adopted by the
Council, the procedures specified in this division (B) shall constitute the
rules and regulations required by Neb. RS 17-107.
      (2)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
      (3)    Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the City Clerk a
written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The Council shall set the
matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20 days after the filing of
the written demand for a hearing. The Council shall give the police officer
written notice of the hearing not less than seven days prior to the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
         (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
         (c)   Be represented by counsel.
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Meetings
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.03   Notice to news media
   
33.04   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
33.05   Emergency meetings
   
33.06   Attendance other than in person
   
33.07   Closed sessions
   
33.08   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
33.09   Public participation
   
33.10   City Council; order of business
   
33.11   Votes
   
33.12   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
33.13   Minutes
   
33.14   Change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.25   Bonds; requirements
   
33.26   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.40   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.41   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Notices
   
33.55   Publication of notices
MEETINGS
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies created by the State Constitution,
statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 33.02 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
State Constitution, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-
1407 et seq.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by:
         (a)   1.   a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the public body’s jurisdiction that is finalized for printing prior to
the time and date of the meeting;
               b.   Posting on such newspaper’s website, if available; and
               c.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (b)   1.   a.   Posting to the newspaper’s website, if available; and
               b.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers if no
edition of a newspaper of general circulation within the public body’s
jurisdiction is to be finalized for printing prior to the time and date of the
meeting.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (c)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
such city, village, or district. Such notice shall be posted by the public body
in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   (a)   In case of refusal, neglect, or inability of the newspaper to
publish the notice, the public body shall:
            1.   Post such notice on its website, if available;
            2.   Submit a post on a statewide website established and
maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers;
and
            3.   Post such notice in a conspicuous public place in such public
body’s jurisdiction.
         (b)   The public body shall keep a written record of such posting. The
record of such posting shall be evidence that such posting was done as required
and shall be sufficient to fulfill the requirement of publication.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference:
   Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(8)
§ 33.03 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.04 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held at such times as
the Council may provide by ordinance. A majority of all the members elected to
the Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business, but
a fewer number may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of
absent members. When the City Council consists of four members as established
by ordinance or home rule charter, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the
City Council for the purpose of establishing a quorum when the Mayor’s presence
is necessary to establish the quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law,
an affirmative vote of at least one-half of the elected members shall be
required for the transaction of any business.
(Neb. RS 17-105)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor or any three Council members shall have the power to
call special meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be
submitted to the Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the
disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
      (2)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and Council members of the special meeting, stating the time
and purpose.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by the Council, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
   (D)   At the hour appointed for a meeting, the City Clerk shall proceed to
call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a quorum
is present, the Council shall be called to order by the Mayor, if present, or
if absent, by the President of the Council.
§ 33.05 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable
advance public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the
minutes and any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the
emergency. Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or
telecommunications equipment. The provisions of §
33.03 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings.
   (B)   Complete minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of
the emergency and any formal action taken at the meetings shall be made
available to the public by not later than the end of the next regular business
day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.06 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.07 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close.
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such
reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer, immediately prior to the closed session, shall restate on the record
the limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body
holding such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters
during the closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to
close as the reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in
open session before any formal action may be taken. For the purpose of this
section, FORMAL ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment
or promise to make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution,
order, or ordinance or formation of a position or policy, but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(2)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.08 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq. No closed session, informal meeting,
chance meeting, social gathering, email, fax, or electronic communication shall
be used for the purpose of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or
the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction, or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.09 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407
et seq., the public has the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings
of public bodies, and all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for
closed sessions called pursuant to §
33.07, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video
equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
Except for closed sessions called pursuant to §
33.07, a public body shall allow members of the public an opportunity to speak
at each meeting.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person, unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., hold a meeting in a place
known by the body to be too small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., posted in the meeting room at a location
accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the
public shall be informed about the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 33.10 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk, and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
§ 33.11 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
Cross-reference:
   City Council voting procedures, see §§
30.34 and
33.04
§ 33.12 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer, and while speaking, shall
confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at
once, the Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or
motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon if requested by the
City Clerk or any member of the Council. Every member of the Council who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the Council present. No motion shall be put or
debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before
being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the
minutes, the name of the member of the Council making the motion or resolution
shall be entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall be taken
and entered in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution,
motion, or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the
sponsor with the consent of the member of the Council seconding the resolution,
motion, or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different
times or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum or
the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a
member voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made
before the expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial
consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no motion
shall be made, entertained, or seconded except the previous question, a motion
to table, and to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without
debate. Any of the rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a two-
thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are not
made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
Council shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.13 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an additional
ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping the minutes
is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.14 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports.
Upon the outgoing Council having completed its business, the outgoing members
of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the
outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to their successors in office
all property, records, papers, and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed
to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the meeting
to order. The Clerk shall report to the Council the names of all Council
members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Council
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call. After
ascertaining that all Council members and officers are duly qualified and after
the Clerk has called the roll, the Council shall elect a President of the
Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for appointive offices
in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a vote on approval of
the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the regular order of
business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.25 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance, may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Nebraska Constitution Article XVII § 5.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties, who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity, or bonding company as surety, or by two or more
such companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact
business in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city
officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
or irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor, or other officer from whom, by law, bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant.
      (1)   If such person properly files the official bond within ten days of
the issuance of the show-cause order for appointed officials or before the date
for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed to be in
compliance with this section.
      (2)   If such person does not file the bond within ten days of the
issuance of such order for appointed officials or before the date for taking
office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not shown within that
time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become vacant and such
vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or appointment as the
law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may,
by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses, or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal, or
neglect, become vacant, and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a
competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 33.26 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall, before entering upon
their respective duties, take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds.
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.40 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service, or duty the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   (1)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.03, except that when there are officers elected to the Council or any other
board or commission having more than one member, and the terms of one or more
members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of
such council, board, or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof.
      (2)   No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office shall be
eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected if, during
the same time, the emoluments thereof were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 33.41 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value, or which represents more than a 5% equity interest,
or is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair
market value, or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds who is dealing with a contract made by such board
or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by the decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, governing body, or any resident within the jurisdiction of
the governing body and shall be brought within one year after the contract is
signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any person
for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor, or services
furnished under the contract to the extent the governing body has benefitted
thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting the performance of work under
the contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body, with all members present, from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matter; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for the purpose of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   (a)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing
body shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. through (G)(1)(b)5. below about
every contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the
body has an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C)
above.
         (b)   This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from
the date of the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
            1.   The names of the contracting parties;
            2.   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
            3.   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
            4.   The amount of the contract; and
            5.   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
not later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
NOTICES
§ 33.55 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   If the city is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, and if there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, then the city shall publish
such notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
in the county in which the city is located. If there is no legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in such county, then the city shall publish such
notice or advertisement by posting a written or printed copy thereof in each of
three public places in the city for the same period of time the city is
required to publish the notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper.
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer; special election
requirements
   
34.08   Filing fee
   
34.09   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.10   Recall procedure
   
34.11   Exit polls; poll watchers
Cross-reference:
   Qualifications of Mayor, City Council, see
Chapter 30
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise.
      (2)   All city elections involving the election of officers shall be held
in accordance with the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq., and in conjunction
with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Any other election held by the city shall
be held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the
charter, code, or bylaws of the city.
   (C)   The city shall furnish to the Secretary of State and Election
Commissioner or County Clerk any maps and additional information which the
Secretary of State and Election Commissioner or County Clerk may require in the
proper performance of their duties in the conduct of elections and the
certification of results.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the election commissioner or county clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or before the
eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   (a)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received
the certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible
for all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered
voters, except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue.
         (b)   The election returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted and canvassed at the same time
and in the same manner as the other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of
the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall certify the election results to the City Council. The canvass by
the County Canvassing Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by
the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the city shall be
responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled election.
Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS 32-1202
that are associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
city withdrawing the issue from the ballot not later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.,
shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected
month unless otherwise specifically provided. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, no special election shall be held under the Election Act in April,
May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year unless it is
held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election. No special
election shall be held under the Election Act in September of an even-numbered
year except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564 and except for a special election by
a political subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or 77-3444 to approve a
property tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   Not later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of the
remaining terms, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for the purposes
of the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Such ordinance providing for
nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not
less than 60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER; SPECIAL ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
January 5 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between January 5 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564, any candidate in a special
election to fill a vacancy for an office of a political subdivision may have
his or her name placed on the special election ballot by filing a candidate
filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as provided in Neb. RS 32-607
and this division (C).
      (2)   The filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be:
         (a)   On or before March 1 for a special election to be held in
conjunction with the statewide primary election;
         (b)   On or before August 1 for a special election to be held in
conjunction with the statewide general election; and
         (c)   Between the eighth Friday prior to the election and the fifth
Friday prior to the election for all other elections.
      (3)   A candidate filing form for such special election shall meet the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-607, except that the form shall contain the
following statement: “I hereby swear that I will abide by the laws of the State
of Nebraska regarding the results of the special election, that I am a
registered voter and qualified to be elected, and that I will serve if
elected.”
      (4)   A candidate filing form for such special election shall be filed
with the filing officer specified in Neb. RS 32-607(2).
(Neb. RS 32-606.01)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 34.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for city office
prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the General Fund of the
city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper payment or the
proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented to the
filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Treasurer’s office
shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F) If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the candidate
may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council prior to
the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City Council, the
filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate:
         (a)   Files for the office by petition as prescribed in divisions (B)
and (C) below;
         (b)   Files as a write-in candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615;
or
         (c)   Is nominated by political party convention or committee pursuant
to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   (1)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of
Neb. RS 32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and
address of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the
party affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be
filed with the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed
by registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in §
34.07. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630.
      (2)   No petition for nomination shall be filed unless there is attached
thereto a receipt showing the payment of the filing fee required pursuant to §
34.08. The petitions shall be filed by September 1 in the year of the general
election, and all signed petitions not filed with the Secretary of State by
such date shall become invalid.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.10 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING OFFICER. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing officer.
Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form
shall be signed and filed with the filing officer by at least one registered
voter. Such voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or
circulators of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and
office of the official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language
of 60 words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing officer issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation.
      (4)   After receiving the filing form, the filing officer shall notify
the official sought to be removed by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01
or, if notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the
methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the filing form at
the official’s usual place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail
to the official’s last known address. If the official chooses, he or she may
submit a defense statement in concise language of 60 words or less for
inclusion on the petition. Any such defense statement shall be submitted to the
filing officer within 20 days after the official receives the copy of the
filing form. The filing officer shall prepare the petition papers within five
business days after receipt of the defense statement. The principal circulator
or circulators shall gather the petition papers within 20 days after being
notified by the filing officer that the petition papers are available. The
filing officer shall notify the principal circulator or circulators that the
necessary signatures must be gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing
the petitions.
      (5)   The filing officer, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
officer shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing officer may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (6)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing officer within 30 days after the filing officer
issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators
as provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing officer shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. Any person may remove his or her name
from a petition as provided in Neb. RS 32-632. If the petition is found to be
sufficient, the filing officer shall attach to the petition a certificate
showing the result of such examination. If the requisite number of signatures
has not been gathered, the filing officer shall file the petition in his or her
office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
officer shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed shall be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or,
if notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s
last known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing officer pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order
an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such
notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election; otherwise, the recall
election shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing officer is subject to a recall election, the Secretary
of State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office, which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-570, 32-574, and 32-606.01.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing officer that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk. Candidates for the special election shall file a
candidate filing form pursuant to §
34.07(C).
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
 § 34.11 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not do any electioneering or disseminate any
information or materials advertising or advocating for or against any ballot
measure while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box, and
any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
35.25   Fiscal year
   
35.26   Budget procedures
   
35.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.31   Appropriation bill
   
35.32   General Fund
   
35.33   Transfer of funds
   
35.34   Budget revision
   
35.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.50   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
35.51   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
35.52   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.53   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.54   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.55   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.56   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
35.57   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium, commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years, used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
State County and City Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., only those net
proceeds which are actually received by the city from a licensed lottery
operator shall be considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include
amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the ANNUAL REPORT.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city, or the fiscal year which is
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts
to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made
by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the
fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council.
         (b)   If the city owns or operates any type of public utility or other
enterprise which substantially generates its own revenue, that phase of the
affairs of the city shall be audited separately from other functions of the
city, and the result shall appear separately in the annual audit report made by
the accountant to the city and such audit shall be on an accrual basis and
shall contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted
accounting principles. For the utilities operated through the Board of Public
Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely separate audit, on an
accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a different accountant than
the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk not later
than August 1 of each year financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement, when the cost of
the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over
$30,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargements or general improvements,
such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on
streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the enlargement or
improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made
by the City Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for bids
as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the City Council may publish the
amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargements or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargements or general improvements.
   (D)   A city electric utility may enter into a contract for the enlargement
or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of equipment used for
the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred and twenty thousand dollars or less and the city
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the city. In case of a public emergency resulting
from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow,
war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for
immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or
damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for
bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when
adopted by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargements or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the City Council or Board
of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those materials
and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided
by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council or Board
of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in the State Procurement Act,
Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim, or for any claim allowed in part, which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement, and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists, at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto,
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund, to be applied to the payment of the improvement
for which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums, or community houses
in a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness,
such city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
above by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division (C), the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do
all things authorized under such resolution of submission but never
inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this section
shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
35.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds. The question of
the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to
carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and
after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time, less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, Neb. RS 77-2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such
deposits and accretions. The City Council shall approve this bond or giving of
security. The City Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of any money
sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so designated and
approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   (1)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.
      (2)   Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for improvements of the works, or into the General Fund
as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Council
so directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board, may
be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law upon
the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, Neb. RS 17-
1269 et seq., and the State Funds Investment Act, Neb. RS 17-1237 et seq., and
as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment
Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State Investment
Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current authorized investment
guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
Neb. RS 77-23,109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act, Neb. RS 45-601 et seq., within or without this
state, for the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any person to the
city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, DEBT shall include all delinquent
fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case
of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   (1)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept
credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
      (2)   A county treasurer, county official, or political subdivision
official shall not accept a central bank digital currency as a method of cash
payment of any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine,
license, fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.    
   (E)   (1)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted
and the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer
and the Director of Administrative Services, with the advice of a committee
convened by the State Treasurer and the Director. The Committee shall consist
of the State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director, and representatives
from counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate.
      (2)   The Committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of
such services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or
more credit card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant
banks for services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and
political subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for
such services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for the
purpose of this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction
fee imposed by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party
merchant bank as an administrative expense.
      (3)   If the City Council chooses not to participate in the state
contract, it may choose the types of credit cards, charge cards, and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing the acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) above. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card or charge
card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of the
surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person and shall
be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit card,
charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for
providing or retrieving information electronically, the city official shall be
authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience
fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY. A digital medium of exchange, token, or
monetary unit of account issued by the United States Federal Reserve System or
any analogous federal agency that is made directly available to the consumer by
such federal entities. CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY includes a digital medium
of exchange, token, or monetary unit of account so issued that is processed or
validated directly by such federal entities.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire System.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period, and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) below, these expenditures shall not exceed
an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the
equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. These
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.29.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from the taxation of personal and real property,
separately stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered
cash balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the
year or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS
18-2801 et seq., and a grand total of all funds maintained by the City Council;
and
         (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in
the budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period, and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property, shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 35.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time.
      (2)   Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such notice, the four calendar
days shall include the day of publication but not the day of the hearing. When
the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per
year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted
at the City Council’s principal headquarters. At such hearing, the governing
body shall make at least three copies of the proposed budget statement
available to the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions
of the proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison
with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the
proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address the governing body at the
hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the State Budget Act,
Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., or Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor
detects such errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Council of such
errors. The Council shall correct any such error as provided in §
35.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Council.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year,
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, if applicable, together with the
amount of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance for
delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required, plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period,
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purpose of this section,
ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under §
35.28.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 35.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State Budget
Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in
which the Council may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed
necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies, there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.34 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published
at least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing.
      (2)   This published notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required
and for what purpose;
         (c)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year so as to meet the need for additional money in
that manner;
         (d)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget
previously published; and
         (e)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appeal or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the Council
shall file with the county clerk of the county or counties in which the City
Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.29, the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall, correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction.
      (2)   After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the county clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.35 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city’s General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published one time at least five days prior to
the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the City
Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the
adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual
expenditures and revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the
proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a
public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq., need not be
followed for that proprietary function. Any income from a proprietary function
which is transferred to the General Fund of the city shall be shown as a source
of revenue in the city budget statement created pursuant to the State Budget
Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.50 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have the power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in
any one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 35.51 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have the power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 35.52 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year, the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy, required to be raised by
taxation, for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.53, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city.
Otherwise-authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.53 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy, plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801
et seq., or the Joint Public Agency Act, Neb. RS 13-2501 et seq. The maximum
levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant
to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting community nurse,
home health nurse, or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or
statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property tax levies
for judgments, except judgments or orders from the Commission of Industrial
Relations, obtained against the city which require or obligate the city to pay
that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability insurance
coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior
to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured
by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-
free loans from the Division of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a
lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy limits
established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided in
this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies provided
by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions to the
limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, Neb. RS 3-501 et seq., community redevelopment
authorities established under the Community Development Law, Neb. RS 18-2101 et
seq., and off-street parking districts established under the Off-street Parking
District Act, Neb. RS 19-3301 et seq., may be allocated property taxes, as
authorized by law, which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport. For off-street parking districts established under the Off-street
Parking District Act, the tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city
proportionately by dividing the total taxable valuation of the taxable property
within the district by the total taxable valuation of the taxable property
within the city multiplied by the levy of the district. The City Council shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The City Council may approve all or a portion of
the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater
than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as
provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the county clerk or election commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the county clerk or election
commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass not more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any 1 calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions that are set forth in the resolution or petition and shall
include the language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the county clerk or election
commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the county clerk or election
commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   1.   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years.
            2.   The county clerk or election commissioner shall place the
issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition
which is at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition, and the
time of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in
Neb. RS 32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election. The
election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 35.54 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.55 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax request for the
current year shall be not more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased accordingly
when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS
77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to set the
amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set its property tax request
at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the prior year, it may do
so, subject to the limitations provided in the School District Property Tax
Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property Tax Growth Limitation
Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with
division (D) below. If any county, city, school district, or community college
seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth
percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of
Neb. 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax
request for the current year shall be not more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization
pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set
its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in
the prior year, it may do so, subject to the limitations provided in the School
District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property
Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance
that complies with division (D) below. If any county, city, school district, or
community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the
requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C)
and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
city at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For the purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of the hearing. If the city’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the City Council’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a city’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the city’s property tax request
in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the city;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by ____ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $____ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of city) proposes to adopt a property tax request that
will cause its tax rate to be $____ per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of city) will exceed last year’s
by ____ percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 35.56 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any
county, city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so, subject to the limitations provided in the School
District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property
Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., if the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) below; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision’s principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   (a)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County
Clerk or his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated
representative of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on
the political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by more
than the allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the
political subdivision’s budget.
         (b)   The presentation shall include:
            1.   The name of the political subdivision;
            2.   The amount of the property tax request; and
            3.   The following statements:
               a.   The total assessed value of property differs from last
year’s total assessed value by ____ percent;
               b.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $____ per $100 of assessed value;
               c.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $____ per $100 of
assessed value;
               d.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by ____ percent; and
               e.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county’s website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 10,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
below to the County Assessor by September 4. The County Clerk shall notify the
County Assessor of the date, time, and location of the joint public hearing not
later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each participating
political subdivision of the date, time, and location of the joint public
hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required to be included
on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) below to a printing service
designated by the County Board. The initial cost for printing the postcards
shall be paid from the county’s General Fund. Such postcards shall be mailed at
least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The cost of creating
and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials, and postage, shall
be charged proportionately to the political subdivisions participating in the
joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels in each participating
political subdivision. Each participating political subdivision shall also
maintain a prominently displayed and easily accessible link on the home page of
the political subdivision’s website to the political subdivision’s proposed
budget, except that this requirement shall not apply if the political
subdivision is a county with a population of less than 10,000 inhabitants, a
city with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants, or, for joint public
hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   (a)   The postcard sent under this division (C) and the notice
posted on the county’s website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) above, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision’s property tax request.
         (b)   The postcard shall also contain the following information:
            1.   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
            2.   The name of the county that will hold the joint public
hearing, which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described
in division (C)(9)(b)1. above;
            3.   The following statement: The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY
MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates.
            4.   The parcel number for the property;
            5.   The name of the property owner and the address of the
property;
            6.   The property’s assessed value in the previous tax year;
            7.   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            8.   The property’s assessed value for the current tax year;
            9.   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            10.   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
            11.   The following statement: To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.
   (D)   (1)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above,
the governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision’s property tax
request.
      (2)   If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request;
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by ____ percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $____ per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $____ per $100 of
assessed value; and
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by ____ percent.
         (d)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   (1)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report
which shall include:
         (a)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
         (b)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
         (c)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
         (d)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
         (e)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
         (f)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint
public hearing.
      (2)   Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. RS 77-1633)
Statutory reference:
   Open Meetings Act, see Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq.
§ 35.57 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE CITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the city shall have power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the city and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any city that collects the annual motor vehicle fee authorized
under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS 60-3,104 and,
as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle Registration
Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., when reporting information to the Vehicle Title
and Registration System; and
         (b)   Any city that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the city for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the city and does not own and
operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the city and the motor vehicle’s situs under
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, Neb. RS 60-101 et seq., is
different from the place at which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the county treasurer of the county in which
the city is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., are paid. These fees shall be
credited by the county treasurer to the Road Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Denial of service; when prohibited
   
50.02   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.03   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection
prohibited; evidence
   
50.04   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.05   Delinquent utility charges; lien; civil action
Cross-reference:
   Trespass; public power infrastructure facility, see §
130.02
§ 50.01 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail in this city shall be
denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are not
collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Neb. RS 70-1601)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities, villages,
political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships, limited
liability companies, or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
   (B)   No public or private utility company, including any utility owned and
operated by the city, furnishing water, natural gas, or electricity at retail
in this city shall discontinue service to any domestic subscriber for
nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility company first gives
notice to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be terminated. Such
notice shall be given in person, by first-class mail, or by electronic
delivery, except that electronic delivery shall only be used if the subscriber
has specifically elected to receive such notices by electronic delivery. If
notice is given by first-class mail or electronic delivery, such notice shall
be conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days after notice is sent or given. Holidays and weekends
shall be excluded from the seven days. A public or private utility company
shall not charge a fee for the discontinuance or reconnection of utility
service that exceeds the reasonable costs of providing such service.
(Neb. RS 70-1605)
   (C)   The notice required by division (B) above shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the utility
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address, and telephone number of the utility’s employee
or department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or
complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the utility may not disconnect service pending the
conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection shall be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s, physician
assistant’s, or advanced practice registered nurse’s certificate, which shall
certify that a domestic subscriber or resident within such subscriber’s
household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause such subscriber
or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by the
disconnection of the utility’s service to that household. Such certificate
shall be filed with the utility within five days of receiving notice under this
section, excluding holidays and weekends, and will prevent the disconnection of
the utility’s service for a period of at least 30 days from such filing. Only
one postponement of disconnection shall be required under this division (C)(7)
for each incidence of nonpayment of any past-due account;
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
utility for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in the payment of their utility
bill and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the City Council or Board of Public
Works, in the case of a city utility, or the board of directors or
administrative board of any other utility.
(Neb. RS 70-1606)
   (D)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
   (E)   The provisions of Neb. RS 70-1608 through 70-1614 shall apply to
disputes over a proposed discontinuance of service.
   (F)   The procedures adopted for resolving utility bills by the City Council
or Board of Public Works for any city utility, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the City Clerk, are incorporated by reference in addition to any
amendments thereto and made a part of this section as though set out in full.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance or
to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It is an offense for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   To connect any instrument, device, or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or to connect
any pipe or conduit supplying gas or water, without the knowledge and consent
of any city utility supplying such products or services, in such a manner that
any portion thereof may be supplied to any instrument by or at which
electricity, electric current, gas, or water may be consumed without passing
through the meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or
quantity thereof passing through it;
      (2)   To knowingly use or knowingly permit the use of electricity,
electric current, gas, or water obtained unlawfully pursuant to this section;
      (3)   To reconnect electrical, gas, or water service without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying such service if the service
has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601 through 70-1615 or §
50.02 of this code; or
      (4)   To willfully injure, alter, or by any instrument, device, or
contrivance in any manner interfere with or obstruct the action or operation of
any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount or quantity
of electricity, electric current, gas, or water passing through it without the
knowledge and consent of any city utility supplying the electricity, electric
current, gas, or water passing or intended to pass through the meter.
   (B)   Proof of the existence of any wire, pipe, or conduit connection or
reconnection or of any injury, alteration, interference, or obstruction of a
meter is prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession of the
premises where that connection, reconnection, injury, alteration, interference,
or obstruction is proved to exist.
(Neb. RS 28-515.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets, or attempts
bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering when that act results in damages
to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering, or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under division (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)(b)
above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred on
account of the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering, including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit, and reasonable attorney fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS 25-
1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
is proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized
metering if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply
system on the premises where the bypassing, tampering, or unauthorized metering
was proven to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 DELINQUENT UTILITY CHARGES; LIEN; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   All water rates, taxes, or rent assessed by the City Council shall be
a lien upon the premises or real estate upon or for which the same is used or
supplied; and such taxes, rents, or rates shall be paid and collected and such
lien enforced in such manner as the Council shall by ordinance direct and
provide.
   (B)   All sewer charges established by the City Council shall be a lien upon
the premises or real estate for which the same is used or supplied. Such lien
shall be enforced in such manner as the Council provides by ordinance.
   (C)   If the service charge established by the City Council for the use of
any city sewage disposal plant and sewerage system is not paid when due, such
sum may be recovered by the city in a civil action or it may be certified to
the County Assessor and assessed against the premises served and collected or
returned in the same manner as other city taxes are certified, assessed,
collected, and returned.
(Neb. RS 18-503)
   (D)   Unless the City Council otherwise provides, on June 1 of each year,
the City Clerk shall report to the Council a list of all unpaid accounts due
for utilities service together with a description of the premises served. If
the Council approves the report, the Clerk shall certify the report to the
County Clerk, to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538 and 17-925.01
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic regulations; general authority
   
70.03   Regulation of highways; police powers
   
70.04   Prohibitions on operation of vehicles
   
70.05   Ordinances contrary to state law prohibited
   
70.06   Placement and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.07   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.08   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.09   Obedience to traffic-control devices; exceptions
   
70.10   Authorized emergency vehicles; privileges
   
70.11   Traffic officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions and the other
definitions in Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676 shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of lots or
buildings and not intended for the purpose of through vehicular traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-607)
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Such Fire Department vehicles, police
vehicles, rescue vehicles, and ambulances as are publicly owned, such other
publicly or privately owned vehicles as are designated by the Director of Motor
Vehicles, and such publicly owned military vehicles of the National Guard as
are designated by the Adjutant General pursuant to Neb. RS 55-133.
(Neb. RS 60-610)
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when,
within any 600 feet along such highway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office
buildings, railroad stations, or public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of a
highway.
(Neb. RS 60-613)
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any street, road,
avenue, boulevard, or way which is publicly maintained when any part thereof is
open to the use of the public for the purposes of vehicular travel.
(Neb. RS 60-624)
   MANUAL. The Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices adopted by the
Department of Transportation pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,118.
(Neb. RS 60-631)
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled land vehicle not operated upon rails,
except bicycles, mopeds, self-propelled chairs used by persons who are
disabled, and electric personal assistive mobility devices.
(Neb. RS 60-638)
   PEACE OFFICER. The Police Chief or other chief law enforcement official, any
city police officer, or any other person authorized to enforce city ordinances.
With respect to directing traffic only, PEACE OFFICER shall also include any
person authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-646)
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
not comprising a business district when the property on such highway, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
(Neb. RS 60-654)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
(Neb. RS 60-656)
   SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE. The area of a roadway designated to the public by the
State Department of Transportation or City Council as a school crossing zone
through the use of a sign or traffic-control device as specified by the City
Council in conformity with the Manual, but does not include any area of a
freeway. A SCHOOL CROSSING ZONE starts at the location of the first sign or
traffic-control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until
a sign or traffic-control device indicates that the school crossing zone has
ended.
(Neb. RS 60-658.01)
   SHOULDER. That part of the highway contiguous to the roadway and designed
for the accommodation of stopped vehicles, for emergency use, and for lateral
support of the base and surface courses of the roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-661)
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any highway for the
purposes of travel.
(Neb. RS 60-669)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or other device not
inconsistent with the state’s Rules of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., placed
or erected by the authority of the City Council or any official having
jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
(Neb. RS 60-670)
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any signal, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
(Neb. RS 60-671)
   TRAFFIC INFRACTION. The violation of any provision of the state’s Rules of
the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or of any law, ordinance, order, rule, or
regulation regulating traffic which is not otherwise declared to be a
misdemeanor or a felony or, in this title, an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-672)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Neb. RS 60-676)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council may, in its jurisdiction, enact regulations
permitting, prohibiting, and controlling the use of motor vehicles, minibikes,
motorcycles, off-road recreation vehicles of any and all types, electric
bicycles, other powered vehicles, electric personal assistive mobility devices,
and vehicles which are not self-propelled. Any person who operates any of such
vehicles without the permission of the City Council or its designated
representative or in a place, time, or manner which has been prohibited by the
City Council shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   The City Council may further authorize the supervising official of any
area under its ownership or control to permit, control, or prohibit the
operation of any motor vehicle, minibike, motorcycle, off-road recreational
vehicle of any or all types, electric bicycle, other powered vehicle, electric
personal assistive mobility device, or vehicle which is not self-propelled on
all or any portion of any area under its ownership or control at any time by
posting or, in case of an emergency, by personal notice. Any person operating
any such vehicle where prohibited, where not permitted, or in a manner so as to
endanger the peace and safety of the public or so as to harm or destroy the
natural features or human-made features of any such area shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-678) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 REGULATION OF HIGHWAYS; POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit stopping, standing, or parking;
      (2)   Regulate traffic by means of peace officers or traffic-control
devices;
      (3)   Regulate or prohibit processions or assemblages on the highways;
      (4)   Designate highways or roadways for use by traffic moving in one
direction;
      (5)   Establish speed limits for vehicles in public parks;
      (6)   Designate any highway as a through highway or designate any
intersection as a stop or yield intersection;
      (7)   Restrict the use of highways as authorized in §
70.04;
      (8)   Regulate the operation of bicycles and require the registration and
inspection of such, including the requirement of a registration fee;
      (9)   Regulate the operation of electric personal assistive mobility
devices;
      (10)   Regulate or prohibit the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles;
      (11)   Alter or establish speed limits authorized in the state’s Rules of
the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq.;
      (12)   Designate no-passing zones;
      (13)   Prohibit or regulate the use of controlled-access highways by any
class or kind of traffic, except those highways which are a part of the state
highway system;
      (14)   Prohibit or regulate the use of heavily traveled highways by any
class or kind of traffic it finds to be incompatible with the normal and safe
movement of traffic, except that such regulations shall not be effective on any
highway which is part of the state highway system unless authorized by the
Department of Transportation;
      (15)   Establish minimum speed limits as authorized in the Rules;
      (16)   Designate hazardous railroad grade crossings as authorized in the
Rules;
      (17)   Designate and regulate traffic on play streets;
      (18)   Prohibit pedestrians from crossing a roadway in a business
district or any designated highway, except in a crosswalk as authorized in the
Rules;
      (19)   Restrict pedestrian crossings at unmarked crosswalks as authorized
in the Rules;
      (20)   Regulate persons propelling push carts;
      (21)   Regulate persons upon skates, coasters, sleds, and other toy
vehicles;
      (22)   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, adopt and
enforce an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the use of engine brakes on the
national system of interstate and defense highways that has a grade of less
than five degrees within its jurisdiction.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(22), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            ENGINE BRAKE. A device that converts a power-producing engine into
a power-absorbing air compressor, resulting in a net energy loss.
      (23)   Adopt and enforce such temporary or experimental regulations as
may be necessary to cover emergencies or special conditions; and
      (24)   Adopt other traffic regulations, except those as are prohibited by
state law or contrary to state law.
   (B)   The City Council shall not erect or maintain any traffic-control
device at any location so as to require the traffic on any state highway or
state-maintained freeway to stop before entering or crossing any intersecting
highway unless approval in writing has first been obtained from the Department
of Transportation.
   (C)   No ordinance or regulation enacted under division (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)
(6), (A)(7), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(12), (A)(13), (A)(14), (A)(16), (A)(17), or
(A)(19) above shall be effective until traffic-control devices giving notice of
such local traffic regulations are erected upon or at the entrances to such
affected highway, or part thereof affected, as may be most appropriate.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
§ 70.04 PROHIBITIONS ON OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may by ordinance or resolution prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any highway or impose restrictions as to the weight
of vehicles, for a total period not to exceed 180 days in any one calendar
year, when operated upon any highway under the jurisdiction of and for the
maintenance of which the City Council is responsible whenever any such highway,
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic condition, will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weight thereof reduced.
      (2)   The City Council shall erect or cause to be erected and maintained
signs designating the provisions of the ordinance or resolution at each end of
that portion of any highway affected thereby, and the ordinance or resolution
shall not be effective until such signs are erected and maintained.
   (B)   The City Council may also, by ordinance or resolution, prohibit the
operation of trucks or other commercial vehicles or impose limitations as to
the weight thereof on designated highways, which prohibitions and limitations
shall be designated by appropriate signs placed on such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-681)
§ 70.05 ORDINANCES CONTRARY TO STATE LAW PROHIBITED.
   The City Council shall not enact or enforce any ordinance directly contrary
to the state’s Rules of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., unless expressly
authorized by the Legislature.
(Neb. RS 60-6,108)
§ 70.06 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall place and maintain such traffic-control devices upon
highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to carry
out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn, or guide traffic. All
such traffic-control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform with
the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.07 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized,
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers, to enforce the provisions of the state’s Rules of the Road, Neb.
RS 60-601 et seq., and this title, including the specific enforcement of
maximum speed limits, and any other state or city law regulating the operation
of vehicles or the use of the highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act, Neb. RS 60-462 et seq., or this title or of any other
law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and
when designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar city ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with the law or,
in the event of a fire or other emergency or in order to expedite traffic or to
ensure safety, to direct traffic as the conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for the correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles, or any city ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
§ 70.08 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the state’s Rules
of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or this title or of a person whom such
officer reasonably believes has violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the state’s Rules
of the Road, Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., or this title, unless otherwise directed
by a peace officer, subject to the exceptions granted to the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in the Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic-control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the
time and place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic-
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic-control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic-control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions stated in the state’s Rules of the Road,
Neb. RS 60-601 et seq., and this title, the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle, when responding to an emergency call, when pursuing an actual or
suspected violator of the law, or when responding to, but not when returning
from, a fire alarm may:
      (1)   Stop, park, or stand, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules
and this title, and disregard regulations governing the direction of movement
or turning in specified directions; and
      (2)   Except for wreckers towing disabled vehicles and highway
maintenance vehicles and equipment:
         (a)   Proceed past a steady red indication, a flashing red indication,
or a stop sign, but only after slowing down as may be necessary for safe
operation; and
         (b)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life, limb, or property.
   (B)   Except when operated as a police vehicle, the exemptions granted in
division (A) above shall apply only when the driver of such vehicle, while in
motion, sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary and when such vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted light displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle.
   (C)   The exemptions granted in division (A) above shall not relieve the
driver from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect such driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   (D)   Authorized emergency vehicles operated by police and fire departments
shall not be subject to the size and weight limitations of sections Neb. RS 60-
6,288 through 60-6,290 and 60-6,294.
(Neb. RS 60-6,114)
§ 70.11 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   (A)   The City Council or the city police may at any time detail officers,
to be known as “traffic officers,” at street intersections.
   (B)   All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate
and control traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall
be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and
accidents.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of
any such traffic officer notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal
device that may have been placed at any such intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise declared in this title with respect to particular
offenses, a violation of any provision of this title shall constitute a traffic
infraction.
(Neb. RS 60-682)
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of a traffic infraction in violation of
this title for which a penalty has not been specifically provided shall be
fined:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for a second offense within a one-year period;
and
      (3)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a one-
year period.
(Neb. RS 60-689)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on traffic infractions, see Neb. RS 60-684 through 60-
694.01
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.02   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
71.03   Interference with traffic-control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.04   Signs, markers, devices, or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.05   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
Speed Limits
   
71.20   Basic rule
   
71.21   Maximum limits
   
71.22   Bridges and other elevated structures
   
71.23   Alternative maximum limits
   
71.24   Near schools
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction, may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such times
as shall be indicated by traffic-control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such
roundabout.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a
stop is indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or
shall stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or if no crosswalk is indicated, then at the point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      (2)   After having stopped, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on such highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if
such driver moved across or into such intersection.
   (C)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a
speed reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or shall stop, if there is no
such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection,
or if no crosswalk is indicated, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway.
      (2)   After slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely
as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such
intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any traffic-control device, any railroad
sign or signal, or any part of such a device, sign, or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES, OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages, or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic-control devices, traffic-surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter, or
knock down any sign, traffic-control device, or traffic-surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Transportation, the county, or the city, to
remove any sign, traffic-control device, or traffic-surveillance device placed
along a highway for traffic-control, warning, or informational purposes by
official action of the department, county, or city. It shall be unlawful for
any person to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation of
this division (C).
   (D)   Any person violating division (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of
the sign, traffic-control device, or traffic-surveillance device and the cost
of replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat, or spike, or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber, which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding five-sixteenths of an inch in diameter,
inclusive of the stud-casing, with an average protrusion beyond the tread
surface of not more than seven-sixty-fourths of an inch between November 1 and
April 1, except that school buses, mail carrier vehicles, and emergency
vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-type studs at any time during
the year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice, or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer:
         (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
         (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to farm vehicles having a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The city may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks
with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm
tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Rubber-tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.20 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.20, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188, 60-
6,305, and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless reduced pursuant
to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless-surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway, or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the City Council pursuant to §
71.23 or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The City Council may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways
under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems
necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to
division (A) or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct, or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation or the City Council may conduct an
investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of
a highway under its jurisdiction, and if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the City Council shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A)
above, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the
City Council and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge
or structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection, place, or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages, as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place, or part of such highway, which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place, or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the City
Council shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits as
the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic investigation,
except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are part of the
state highway system in the city shall be effective without the approval of the
Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 mph, and there
shall be no limit on the difference between adjacent speed limits for
increasing speed limits along a highway.
   (D)   When the Department or the City Council determines by an investigation
that certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-
6,305, and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
71.21 and
71.22 and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313, or set pursuant to this
section, §
71.22, or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the City Council may restrict the
speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its respective jurisdiction and
post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
§ 71.24 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of any maximum
speed limit established for any highway or freeway as set out in §§
71.20 through
71.24 is guilty of a traffic infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined:
         (a)   For traveling one to five mph over the authorized speed limit:
$10;
         (b)   For traveling over five mph but not over ten mph over the
authorized speed limit: $25;
         (c)   For traveling over ten mph but not over 15 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $75;
         (d)   For traveling over 15 mph but not over 20 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $125;
         (e)   For traveling over 20 mph but not over 35 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $200; and
         (f)   For traveling over 35 mph over the authorized speed limit: $300.
      (2)   (a)   The fines prescribed in division (B)(1) above shall be
doubled if the violation occurs within a maintenance, repair, or construction
zone established pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (B)(2), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
               a.   i.   The portion of a highway identified by posted or
moving signs as being under maintenance, repair, or construction;
                  ii.   The portion of a highway identified by maintenance,
repair, or construction zone speed limit signs displayed pursuant to Neb. RS
60-6,188; and
                  iii.   Within such portion of a highway where road
construction workers are present.
               b.   The MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE starts at the
location of the first sign identifying the maintenance, repair, or construction
zone and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the
maintenance, repair, or construction zone has ended.
      (3)   The fines prescribed in division (B)(1) above shall be doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
(Neb. RS 60-682.01)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Regulation or prohibition authorized
   
72.02   Roadway outside business or residential district
   
72.03   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
72.04   Obstructing street, intersection, or entrance
   
72.05   Intersections
   
72.06   Alleys
   
72.07   Truck parking, loading, and unloading
   
72.08   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.09   Current registration
   
72.10   Time limits
   
72.11   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
   
72.12   Parallel, angle, and center parking
   
72.13   Backing freight vehicle to curb
   
72.14   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.15   Painting of curbs
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.30   Tickets
   
72.31   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 REGULATION OR PROHIBITION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction and
within the reasonable exercise of the police power, may regulate or prohibit
stopping, standing, or parking.
(Neb. RS 60-680)
   (B)   If the City Council regulates or prohibits stopping, standing, or
parking all vehicles or a particular kind or class of vehicles on a highway or
a portion of a highway, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle subject
to such regulation or prohibition on the highway or portion thereof longer than
a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 ROADWAY OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon a roadway outside of a business or residential
district when it is practicable to stop, park, or leave such vehicle off such
part of a highway, but in any event, an unobstructed width of the roadway
opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other
vehicles and a clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a
distance of 200 feet in each direction upon such highway. Such parking,
stopping, or standing shall in no event exceed 24 hours.
   (B)   No person shall stop, park, or leave standing any vehicle on a freeway
except in areas designated or unless so directed by a peace officer, except
that when a vehicle is disabled or inoperable or the driver of the vehicle is
ill or incapacitated, such vehicle shall be permitted to park, stop, or stand
on the shoulder facing in the direction of travel with all wheels and
projecting parts of such vehicle completely clear of the traveled lanes, but in
no event shall such parking, standing, or stopping upon the shoulder of a
freeway exceed 12 hours.
   (C)   No person, except law enforcement, Fire Department, emergency
management, public or private ambulance, or authorized Department of
Transportation or local authority personnel, shall loiter or stand or park any
vehicle upon any bridge, highway, or structure which is located above or below
or crosses over or under the roadway of any highway or approach or exit road
thereto.
   (D)   Whenever a vehicle is disabled or inoperable in a roadway, or for any
reason obstructs the regular flow of traffic for reasons other than an
accident, the driver shall move or cause the vehicle to be moved as soon as
practical so as to not obstruct the regular flow of traffic.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the roadway in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in
such position until such time as it can be removed pursuant to division (D)
above.
(Neb. RS 60-6,164) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic-control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign, or
other traffic-control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when such is properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION, OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection,
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or a traffic-control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curblines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curblines are painted red or
another color specified by the City Council in order to indicate such
prohibition.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle with any portion thereof projecting
into any alley entrance.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle in any alley, except for the
purpose of loading or unloading during the time necessary to load or unload,
which shall not exceed the maximum limit of one-half hour.
      (2)   Every vehicle while loading or unloading in an alley shall be
parked in such manner as will cause the least obstruction possible to traffic
in the alley.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING, AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
business district except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible, and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the business district, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
business district except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to a
breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
city. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 CURRENT REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful to park or place on the highways or other public
property any vehicle required to be registered by the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., that is not registered in accordance
with the Act.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on a public street for over 24
consecutive hours, except where a different maximum time limit is posted.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution entirely prohibiting, or
fixing a time limit for, the parking and stopping of vehicles on any highway,
it is unlawful to park or stop any vehicle in such highway for a period of time
longer than fixed in the resolution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, it is unlawful to park or
stand any vehicle on any highway in the city at any time within 12 hours after
a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period if the
snow has not been removed within that time.
   (B)   The Police Chief, the city police, or any other designated person may
order any highway or portion thereof vacated for weather emergencies or highway
maintenance. Notice shall be given by personally notifying the owner or
operator of a vehicle parked on such highway or by posting appropriate signs
along the highway not less than four hours prior to the time that the vacation
order is to be effective. It is unlawful to park a vehicle on a highway or
portion thereof vacated in accordance with this division (B).
   (C)   A vehicle parked in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the city police, to a suitable nearby location
without further notice to the owner or operator of such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 PARALLEL, ANGLE, AND CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway where parking is permitted shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the
right-hand curb or edge of such roadway. No vehicle shall be parked upon a
roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the roadway which is available for
parking.
   (B)   Except when otherwise provided by the City Council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel
to the curb or edge of such roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic
movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway or its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or edge of such roadway.
   (C)   The City Council may permit angle or center parking on any roadway,
except that angle or center parking shall not be permitted on any federal-aid
highway or on any part of the state highway system unless the Director-State
Engineer has determined that such roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle or center parking without interfering with the free movement of traffic.
   (D)   The City Council may prohibit or restrict stopping, standing, or
parking on highways under its jurisdiction and erect and maintain proper and
adequate signs thereon. No person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in
violation of the restrictions stated on such signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,167)
   (E)   Where stalls are designated either on the curb or pavement, vehicles
shall be parked within those stalls.
   (F)   Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to
prevent another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 BACKING FREIGHT VEHICLE TO CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an overall length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C) Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
    (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted to indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the
parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain
facilities or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or
location shall be painted in such manner as directed by the City Council to
indicate such regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or designating of
portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited
shall be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of
the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any
manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.30 TICKETS.
   All tickets issued for violations of nonmoving traffic regulations contained
in this chapter shall, in addition to information normally stated on such
tickets, carry the following information:
   (A)   The amount of the fine if paid within 30 days;
   (B)   The amount of the fine if not paid within 30 days;
   (C)   The location where payment may be made; and
   (D)   The fact that a complaint will be filed after 30 days if the fine is
not paid in that time.
§ 72.31 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any peace officer, or any authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, the individual may remove the vehicle, have
such vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move such vehicle to a position off the roadway of the highway or
from the highway.
   (B)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of any
vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing and
storage fees. Any towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the vehicle prior
to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall be entitled
to retain possession of the vehicle until the charges are paid. The lien
provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-6,165)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
92.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
93.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Recreational Facilities
   
90.01   Operation and funding
   
90.02   Injury to property
Library
   
90.15   Funding
   
90.16   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
90.17   Grounds and building
   
90.18   Sale and conveyance of real estate
   
90.19   Mortgages; release or renewal
   
90.20   Cost of use
   
90.21   Discrimination prohibited
   
90.22   Annual report
   
90.23   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
90.24   Donations
   
90.25   Improper book removal
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 90.01 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   If the city has already acquired or hereafter acquires land for park
purposes or recreational facilities or has already built or hereafter builds
swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams, the Mayor and City Council
may each year make and levy a tax upon the taxable value of all the taxable
property in the city. The levy shall be collected and put into the City
Treasury and shall constitute the Park and Recreation Fund of the city. The
funds so levied and collected shall be used for amusements, for laying out,
improving, and beautifying such parks, for maintaining, improving, managing,
and beautifying such swimming pools, recreational facilities, or dams, and for
the payment of salaries and wages of persons employed in the performance of
such labor.
(Neb. RS 17-951)
   (B)   If the Mayor and City Council create a Board of Park Commissioners or
Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners, when such Board has been appointed
and qualified, all accounts against the Park Fund or Park and Recreation Fund
shall be audited by the Board, and warrants against the fund shall be drawn by
the Chairperson of the Board, and warrants so drawn shall be paid by the City
Treasurer out of the fund.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (C)   (1)   Whether the title to real estate for parks, public grounds,
swimming pools, or dams, either for recreational or conservational purposes,
shall be acquired by gift, devise, or purchase as provided in Neb. RS 17-948,
the jurisdiction of the City Council or Park Board shall at once be extended
over such real estate; and the City Council or Park Board shall have the power
to enact bylaws, rules or ordinances for the protection and preservation of any
real estate acquired, and to provide rules and regulations for the closing of
the park or swimming pool, in whole or in part, to the general public, and
charge admission thereto during such closing, either by the city or by any
person, persons, or corporation leasing the same. They may provide suitable
penalties for the violation of such bylaws, rules, or ordinances; and the
police power of the city shall be at once extended over the same.
(Neb. RS 17-949)
      (2)   The Park Board shall not enter into a contract of any nature that
involves an expenditure of funds, except for ordinary operating expenses,
unless the contract has been approved by resolution of the majority of the
members of the City Council prior to the contractual agreement.
Statutory reference:
   Levy limits, see Neb. RS 77-3442
   Parks and recreational facilities generally, see Neb. RS 17-948 through 17-
952
§ 90.02 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully cut down,
injure, or destroy any tree, plant, or shrub in any city park or recreational
facility. It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any sodded
or planted area or injure or destroy any building, structure, equipment, fence,
bench, table, or any other property of any city park or recreational area. No
person shall commit any waste on or litter the city parks or other public
grounds.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering of public and private property, see Neb. RS 28-523
LIBRARY
§ 90.15 FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city, annually to be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in
the city. The levy shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount
collected from such levy shall be known as the Library Fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The Fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance, or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the president of the Library Board and authenticated by the Secretary
of the Board, and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in
any other manner. The city may establish a public library sinking fund for
major capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the Librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
§ 90.16 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules, and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care, and
custody of the grounds, rooms, or buildings constructed, leased, or set apart
for that purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease, or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees, and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before the
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books, or other property, for failure to
return any book, or for violation of any bylaw, rule, or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.17 GROUNDS AND BUILDING.
   The Library Board may purchase or lease grounds, exercise the power of
eminent domain, and condemn real estate for the purpose of securing a site for
a library building. The procedure to condemn property shall be exercised in the
manner set forth in Neb. RS 76-704 through 76-724.
(Neb. RS 51-210)
§ 90.18 SALE AND CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE.
   (A)   The Library Board may, by resolution, direct the sale and conveyance
of any real estate owned by the Board or by the public library which is not
used for library purposes, or of any real estate so donated or devised to the
Board or to the library, upon such terms as the Board may deem best.
   (B)   Before any such sale is made, the Library Board shall advertise the
sale once each week for three consecutive weeks in a legal newspaper published
or, if none is published, of general circulation in the city. The notice shall
set out the time, place, terms, manner of sale, legal description of such real
estate, and the right to reject any and all bids. If the bid or bids have not
been rejected, then the real estate shall be sold to the highest bidder for
cash, and the Chairperson of the Library Board, upon resolution of the Library
Board directing him or her so to do, shall convey the real estate to the
purchaser of such real estate upon his or her payment of his or her bid. If,
within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a remonstrance
against the sale is signed by 30% of the registered voters of the city voting
at the last regular city election and is filed with the City Council, the
property shall not then, nor within one year thereafter, be sold. If the date
for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday,
the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing
shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next
business day.
(Neb. RS 51-216)
§ 90.19 MORTGAGES; RELEASE OR RENEWAL.
   The President of the Library Board shall have the power to release, upon
full payment, any mortgage constituting a credit to the Library Fund and
standing in the name of the Library Board. The signature of the President on
any such release shall be authenticated by the Secretary of the Board. The
President and Secretary in like manner, upon resolution duly passed and adopted
by the Board, may renew any such mortgage.
(Neb. RS 51-206)
§ 90.20 COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the library and reading room
shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject
always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to render
the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library Board may
exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who willfully
violates or refuses to comply with the rules and regulations established for
the government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, the use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment, and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 90.21 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No library service shall be denied to any person because of race, sex,
religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, or marital
status.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.22 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February in each
year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on the
last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received and
credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video and
audio materials, software programs, and materials in other formats; the number
of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number of
materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the year;
the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information, and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require. The report shall be verified by affidavit
of the President and Secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 90.23 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the
Library Board and any court costs and attorney fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board.
   (B)   (1)   Money, other than any court costs and attorney fees, collected
in such actions shall be placed in the Treasury of the city to the credit of
the Library Fund.
      (2)   Attorney fees collected pursuant to this section shall be placed in
the Treasury of the city and credited to the budget of the City Attorney’s
office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 90.24 DONATIONS.
   Any person may make donations of money, lands, or other property for the
benefit of the public library. The title to property so donated may be made to
and shall vest in the Library Board and their successors in office, and the
Board shall thereby become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
public library.
(Neb. RS 51-215)
§ 90.25 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the Librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement official
   
91.03   County Board of Health
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Abatement procedure
   
91.17   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
91.18   Dead or diseased trees
   
91.19   Weeds; litter; stagnant water
   
91.20   Garbage and refuse
Fire Prevention
   
91.35   Open burning ban; waiver
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties, and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as the
Quarantine Officer, shall be the chief health officer of the city. It shall be
his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board of Health of health
nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine Officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.03 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists of doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition, or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street,
or highway in the city;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving, or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound, or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter, or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish, or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits, or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered, or trash-covered cellars, houseyards, barnyards,
stableyards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in the rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings, or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the city;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish, or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the city, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster, and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw, or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin, or other metal not
neatly piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials
when any of the articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger, or which are so unsightly
as to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly buildings, billboards, or other structures, or any
old, abandoned, or partially destroyed buildings or structures, or any
buildings or structures commenced and left unfinished, which buildings,
billboards, or other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the
public health or safety, or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of
property in the vicinity thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors, or
machinery of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked, or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, or machinery of any kind, or of any of
the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment
used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which places are kept or
maintained so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property by others, or which are so unsightly as to tend to depreciate
property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens,
or any other place, building, or enclosure in which animals or fowl of any kind
are confined or on which is stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain, is being
processed when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises on
which the vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom to
the annoyance of inhabitants of the city or are maintained and kept in such a
manner as to be injurious to the public health; or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any real estate within the corporate limits
or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city shall keep such real estate
free of nuisances. Except to the extent that conflicting procedures are
otherwise provided, the procedures in this section shall apply to the abatement
of nuisances.
   (B)   Upon determination by the Board of Health or designated official that
the owner or occupant of any such real estate has failed to keep the real
estate free of nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisances and notice
of the right to a hearing before the City Council and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent
and to the occupant, if any, by personal service or by certified mail. If
notice by personal service or certified mail is unsuccessful, notice shall be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city or by
conspicuously posting the notice on the real estate upon which the nuisance is
to be abated and removed. The notice shall describe the condition as found by
the Board of Health or designated official and state that the condition has
been declared a nuisance and must be remedied at once.
   (C)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant of the real estate does
not request a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate
and remove the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
   (D)   If, within five days after receipt of such notice or publication or
posting, whichever is applicable, the owner or occupant requests in writing a
hearing with the City Council, the Council shall fix a time and place at which
a hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal
service or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before
the Council to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a
nuisance and remedied. The notice shall be given not less than seven nor more
than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for the
hearing and pursuant to the notice, the Council shall hear all objections made
by the owner or occupant and shall hear evidence submitted by the Board of
Health or designated official. If, after consideration of all the evidence, the
City Council finds that the condition is a nuisance, it shall, by resolution,
order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the nuisance at once. If the
owner or occupant refuses or neglects to promptly comply with the order to
abate and remove the nuisance, the Council may have such work done.
   (E)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner. If
unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the real
estate so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as other
special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the real estate and the adjoining streets and alleys.
Cross-reference:
   Authority to obtain injunction against nuisance, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
   Nuisances prohibited, see Neb. RS 28-1321
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563
   Zoning jurisdiction, Neb. RS 17-1001
§ 91.17 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the City Council condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the city, the
owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action at any time before
trial.
(Neb. RS 19-710)
§ 91.18 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of
streets within the corporate limits of the city or within its extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   (a)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the
right to a hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The
city shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by
first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
         (b)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to
appeal the decision to abate or remove the nuisance by filing a written appeal
with the office of the City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within
14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or
appointed officer as designated in the ordinance.
         (c)   The hearing officer shall render a decision on the appeal within
five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails,
the city may have the work done to abate and remove the dead or diseased trees.
If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a
hearing with the city within five days after receipt of such notice or fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the city may have such
work done. The city may levy and assess all or any portion of the costs and
expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted as a special
assessment.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit,
allow, or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the
corporate limits of the city or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction. The provisions in division (A)(2) above shall apply to such
nuisances. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the
city police shall have the authority to enter upon private property to inspect
the trees thereon.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.19 WEEDS; LITTER; STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the city or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall be drained or filled so as to
prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the city or
within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall keep the lot or piece of
ground and the adjoining streets and alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or
more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing, or accumulation of litter on any lot or
piece of ground within the city or within its extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction is prohibited.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses, or worthless
vegetation on any lot or piece of ground within the city or within its
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction or on the adjoining streets or alleys or
to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon, except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to
each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any. The
city shall establish the method of notice by ordinance. If notice is given by
first-class mail, such mail shall be conspicuously marked as to its importance.
         (b)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or
occupant of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to
appeal the decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal
with the office of the City Clerk. A hearing on the appeal shall be held within
14 days after the filing of the appeal and shall be conducted by an elected or
appointed officer as designated in the ordinance.
         (c)   The hearing officer shall render a decision on the appeal within
five business days after the conclusion of the hearing. If the appeal fails,
the city may have such work done. Within five days after receipt of such
notice, if the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request
a hearing with the city or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove
the nuisance, the city may have such work done.
      (2)   The costs and expenses of any such work shall be paid by the owner.
If unpaid for two months after such work is done, the city may either:
         (a)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot
or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment in the same manner as
other special assessments for improvements are levied and assessed; or
         (b)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work
upon the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation, except when used as
ground mulch or in a compost pile;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but is not limited to: bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
(Neb. RS 17-563) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.20 GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The owner, duly authorized agent, or tenant of any lot or land within
the corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city shall
remove garbage or refuse found upon the lot, land, streets, roads, or alleys
abutting the lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given
to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant, if any. The
notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After
providing the notice, the city shall, in addition to other proper remedies,
remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from the lot, land,
streets, roads, or alleys.
   (C)   If the Mayor declares that the accumulation of garbage or refuse upon
any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to public health
and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be
removed, from the lot or land within 48 hours after notice by personal service
or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with division (B)
above if the garbage or refuse has not been removed.
   (D)   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be
removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this section, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the City Council, assess the cost of the removal against
the lot or land.
(Neb. RS 18-1752)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.35 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land.
   (B)   (1)   The Fire Chief may waive an open burning ban under division (A)
above for an area under the City Fire Department’s jurisdiction by issuing an
open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct open burning.
The permit issued by the Fire Chief to a person desiring to conduct open
burning shall at a minimum contain:
         (a)   The name and telephone number of the landowner;
         (b)   The burn location;
         (c)   The date and beginning and ending time of the burn;
         (d)   A description of the material to be burned; and
         (e)   The name and telephone number of the person responsible for the
burn.
      (2)   The local Fire Department may have additional requirements for a
burn to be permitted. The permit shall contain the signature, written or
electronic, of the local Fire Chief. The State Fire Marshal shall provide a
sample form with the minimum requirements on the website of the State Fire
Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may waive the open burning ban in the City Fire
Department’s jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the Chief. Anyone
intending to burn in that jurisdiction when the open burning ban has been
waived shall notify the Fire Chief of his or her intention to burn prior to
starting the burn.
   (D)   The Fire Chief may adopt standards listing the conditions acceptable
for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the City Council for inclusion in
the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course of that
state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Neb. RS 81-520.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
92.001   Definitions
   
92.002   Streets, alleys, walks, malls, and other improvements
   
92.003   Maintenance and control
   
92.004   Regulation of obstructions
   
92.005   Regulation of snow, ice, and other encroachments
   
92.006   Permitted use of public street space
   
92.007   Poles, wires, and pipelines
   
92.008   Dangerous stairways and entrances
   
92.009   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
   
92.010   Guttering and eave spouts
   
92.011   Prohibited obstructions
   
92.012   Trees in sidewalk space
   
92.013   Overhanging branches
   
92.014   Signs and canopies
   
92.015   Cutting into paving, curb, or sidewalk
   
92.016   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
92.030   Sale and conveyance; real property
   
92.031   Sale and conveyance; personal property
   
92.032   Acquisition or construction of public buildings; election requirements
   
92.033   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
   
92.034   Acquisition of real property; public meeting; access for recreational
use
   
92.035   Public works involving architecture or engineering; requirements
   
92.036   Special assessments for public works or improvements; notice to
nonresident property owners
Sidewalks
   
92.050   Requirement to keep clean
   
92.051   Use of space beneath
   
92.052   Construction at owner’s initiative
   
92.053   Construction and repair at city direction
Streets and Alleys
   
92.065   Dedication to public use
   
92.066   Grading, paving, and other improvements
   
92.067   Improvements without petition or creation of district
   
92.068   Opening, widening, improving, or vacating
   
92.069   Vacating public ways; procedure
   
92.070   Crossings
   
92.071   Names and numbers
   
92.072   Driveway approaches
   
92.073   Excavation
   
92.074   Driving stakes
   
92.075   Mixing concrete
   
92.076   Harmful liquids
   
92.077   Snow, debris, and the like on street prohibited
CITY PROPERTY
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OVERSEER OF STREETS. The city official with general charge, direction, and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, OVERSEER OF STREETS shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
§ 92.002 STREETS, ALLEYS, WALKS, MALLS, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may grade, partially or to an established grade,
change grade, curb, recurb, gutter, regutter, pave, gravel, regravel,
macadamize, remacadamize, widen, or narrow streets or roadways, resurface or
re-lay existing pavement, or otherwise improve any streets, alleys, public
grounds, or public ways, entirely or partially, and streets which divide the
city corporate area and the area adjoining the city; construct or reconstruct
pedestrian walks, plazas, malls, landscaping, outdoor sprinkler systems,
fountains, decorative water ponds, lighting systems, and permanent facilities;
and construct sidewalks and improve the sidewalk space. These projects may be
funded at public cost or by the levy of special assessments on the property
especially benefitted in proportion to such benefits, except as provided in
Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431.
   (B)   The City Council may by ordinance create improvement districts, to be
consecutively numbered, which may include two or more connecting or
intersecting streets, alleys, or public ways, and may include two or more types
of the improvements authorized under this section in a single district in one
proceeding.
   (C)   All of the improvements which are to be funded by a levy of special
assessment on the property especially benefitted shall be ordered as provided
in Neb. RS 17-510 through 17-512, except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 17-
509.
(Neb. RS 17-509)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on improvements, assessments, and bonds, see Neb. RS 17-513
through 17-524, 18-1751, 19-2401, and 19-2408 through 19-2415
§ 92.003 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The City Council shall have the care, supervision, and control of all public
highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares, and commons within the city
and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 92.004 REGULATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city may remove all obstructions from the sidewalks, curbstones,
gutters, and crosswalks at the expense of the person placing them there or at
the expense of the city and require and regulate the planting and protection of
shade trees in and along the streets and the trimming and removing of such
trees.
   (B)   The city may regulate the building of bulkheads, cellar and basement
ways, stairways, railways, windows, doorways, awnings, hitching posts and
rails, lampposts, awning posts, all other structures projecting upon or over
and adjoining, and all other excavations through and under the sidewalks in the
city.
(Neb. RS 17-555)
§ 92.005 REGULATION OF SNOW, ICE, AND OTHER ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall have the power to prevent and remove all encroachments,
including snow, ice, mud or other obstructions, into and upon all sidewalks,
streets, avenues, alleys, and other city property.
(Neb. RS 17-557)
   (B)   If the abutting property owner refuses or neglects, after five days’
notice by publication or, in place thereof, personal service of such notice, to
remove all encroachments from sidewalks as provided in division (A) above, the
city, through the proper officers, may cause such encroachments to be removed,
and the cost of removal shall be paid out of the Street Fund. The City Council
shall assess the cost of the notice and removal of the encroachment against the
abutting property as a special assessment. The special assessment shall be
known as a special sidewalk assessment and, together with the cost of notice,
shall be levied and collected as a special assessment in addition to the
general revenue taxes and shall be subject to the same penalties as other
special assessments and shall draw interest from the date of the assessment.
Upon payment of the assessment, the assessment shall be credited to the Street
Fund.
(Neb. RS 17-557.01)
§ 92.006 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking,
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Overseer of Streets. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked, or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.007 POLES, WIRES, AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines, and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon, or under
the streets, alleys, and common grounds of the city. Application for location
of such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipelines, or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   (1)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines, and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected.
      (2)   The companies shall, within 24 hours after receiving notice, at
their own expense cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines, or
other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The Council shall designate
another location as closely as possible where the appurtenances may be reset or
placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines, or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed, or erected in such a manner that they
will not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles,
wires, conduits, mains, lines, or other appurtenances of any public utility;
any adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipelines, and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
§ 92.008 DANGEROUS STAIRWAYS AND ENTRANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way, or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement, or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, except that all existing stairways, open cellarways, open
basement ways, or open entrances thereto in or adjacent to sidewalks,
pavements, or streets may be permitted to remain from and after the adoption of
this prohibition if the person owning or using the opening in the sidewalk,
pavement, or street satisfies the Overseer of Streets that the opening is
properly protected by a balustrade, or coping of durable material, and
furnishes the city with a bond in the amount set by the City Council for the
benefit of any person who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use
of the stairway, cellarway, basement way, or entrance.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.009 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant engaged in the construction or demolition of any
building or improvement upon or near the public ways and property shall protect
all excavations or exposures of any kind by suitable barricades or guards by
day and by warning lights at night.
   (B)   The failure, neglect, or refusal of the owner or occupant to erect and
maintain such protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the
city may stop all work upon the buildings and improvements until suitable
protections are erected and maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.010 GUTTERING AND EAVE SPOUTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any dwelling house
or business building within the limits of the city where the dwelling or
building abuts on any sidewalk or street without providing proper guttering and
eave spouts to receive the wastewaters that collect on the sidewalks and
streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house or business building
shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be buried beneath the
sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be impossible to
drain the eave spouts into the alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.011 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber by fences,
gates, buildings, structures, or otherwise any of the streets, alleys, or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush, or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making, or construction of any public
improvement, or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or
pipe, shall be deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may
be removed by the city at the expense of the owner of the property upon which
the trees or shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or
neglects, after notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction that is described in this section is determined
to exist, the city may proceed against the owner or the occupant of the
property adjacent to the sidewalk space as provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.012 TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Overseer of Streets upon payment of the
fee, if any, established by the City Council.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the city may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.013 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the City Council. Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over
streets or sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the
lighting of the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public
using the street or sidewalk, the city may proceed against the owner or
occupant of the property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as
provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.014 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster, or
rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, or alley or on other public property
without having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, signboards,
posters, and canopies shall be issued by the City Clerk, subject to the
approval of the Overseer of Streets, upon the payment of the fee, if any,
established by the City Council.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters, and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of them being dislodged by ordinary
winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster, or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign, or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster, or canopy is in
violation of this section, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant
of the premises where such sign, signboard, poster, or canopy is located as
provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.015 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB, OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb, or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done, and it shall be the duty
of the Overseer of Streets to inspect the proposed place of entry into the
paving, sidewalk, or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb, or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Council or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Overseer of Streets, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Council to order the Overseer of
Streets, under the supervision and inspection of the City Engineer or the
committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb, or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit. The Council may consent to the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb, or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Council, the applicant for the
permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Council for all paving, curb, or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per-square-foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb, or sidewalk in the
event the work is done by the city. If the Council elects to require the
applicant to replace the paving, curb, or sidewalk, the deposit shall be
retained by the city until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the
Overseer of Streets or of the committee of the Council on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety,
to be approved by the Council, in a sum set by resolution.
§ 92.016 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk, or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk, or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
71.05, it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate, or convey over or
across any paved street a vehicle, machine, or implement with sharp discs or
with sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels that have cutting
edges; with wheels that have lugs, any protruding parts, or bolts thereon that
extend beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent, or otherwise injure
or damage any pavement, gutter, or curb, except that where heavy vehicles,
structures, and machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the city police
are hereby authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving
of such vehicles, structures, or machines will be permitted and allowed.
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 92.030 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, the power of the city to
convey any real property owned by it, including land used for park purposes and
public squares, except real property used in the operation of public utilities,
shall be exercised by resolution, directing the sale at public auction or by
sealed bid of that property and the manner and terms of such sales, except that
the property shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   The property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   The property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   The property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The City Council may establish a minimum price for real property at
which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of property described in division (A) above and the terms of
such sales shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks in a
legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the city.
   (D)   (1)   If, within 30 days after the third publication of the notice, a
remonstrance petition against the sale conforms to Neb. RS 32-628, is signed by
registered voters of the city equal in number to 30% of the registered voters
of the city voting at the last regular city election held therein, and is filed
with the City Council, that property shall not then, nor within one year
thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the petition falls upon a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the 30-day
period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the City Council, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or the County Clerk, shall
determine the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the petition. The City
Council shall deliver the petition to the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk by hand carrier, by the use of law enforcement officials, or by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk shall issue to the City Council a written receipt that the petition is in
the custody of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the signature of each person signing
the petition with the voter registration records to determine if each signer
was a registered voter on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall also
compare the signer’s printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address with the voter registration records to determine
whether the signer was a registered voter. The signature and address shall be
presumed to be valid only if the Election Commissioner or County Clerk
determines that the printed name, street and number or voting precinct, and
city or post office address match the registration records and that the
registration was received on or before the date on which the petition was filed
with the City Council. The determinations of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk may be rebutted by any credible evidence which the City Council
finds sufficient. The express purpose of the comparison of names and addresses
with the voter registration records, in addition to helping to determine the
validity of the petition, the sufficiency of the petition, and the
qualifications of the signer, shall be to prevent fraud, deception, and
misrepresentation in the petition process.
      (4)   Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature.
      (5)   The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify to the City
Council the number of valid signatures necessary to constitute a valid
remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall deliver the
remonstrance and the certifications to the City Council within 40 days after
the receipt of the remonstrance from the City Council. The delivery shall be by
hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials, or by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one signature page shall be
counted.
      (6)   The City Council shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The City Council shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (E)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the city may be conveyed
without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if acquired for
state armory sites, shall be conveyed strictly in accordance with the
conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (F)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale, and passing of the 30-day right-of-
remonstrance period, the property shall then be sold. The sale shall be
confirmed by passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and
terms of the sale.
(Neb. RS 17-503)
   (G)   Divisions (A) through (F) above shall not apply to the sale of real
property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of real property the
total fair market value of which is less than $5,000. Following passage of the
resolution directing the sale of the property, notice of the sale shall be
posted in three prominent places within the city for a period of not less than
seven days prior to the sale of the property. The notice shall give a general
description of the property offered for sale and state the terms and conditions
of sale. Confirmation of the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Neb. RS 17-503.01)
§ 92.031 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The power of the city to convey any personal property owned by it
shall be exercised by resolution directing the sale and the manner and terms of
the sale. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the city for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of the
property. If the fair market value of the property is greater than $5,000,
notice of the sale shall also be published once in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the sale of the
property. The notice shall give a general description of the property offered
for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale.
   (B)   Personal property may be conveyed notwithstanding the procedure in
division (A) above when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs; or
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency.
(Neb. RS 17-503.02)
§ 92.032 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city is authorized and empowered to purchase, accept by gift or
devise, purchase real estate upon which to erect, and erect a building or
buildings for an auditorium, fire station, city building, or community house
for housing city enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and other
public buildings, including the construction of buildings authorized to be
constructed by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article 14, and including the construction
of buildings to be leased in whole or in part by the city to any other
political or governmental subdivision of the state authorized by law to lease
such buildings, and maintain, manage, and operate the same for the benefit of
the inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the city at a general city election or at an election duly called for that
purpose, or as set forth in division (D) below, and be adopted by a majority of
the electors voting on such question.
(Neb. RS 17-953)
   (C)   If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)   Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and no election shall be
required to approve the purchase or construction unless, within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance petition against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the city equal in number to 15%
of the registered voters of the city voting at the last regular city election
held therein and is filed with the City Council. If the date for filing the
petition falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the signatures shall
be collected within the 30-day period, but the filing shall be considered
timely if filed or postmarked on or before the next business day. If a petition
with the necessary number of qualified signatures is timely filed, the question
shall be submitted to the voters of the city at a general city election or a
special election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction
is not approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year
following the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The City Council may proceed without providing the notice and right
of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller, and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the City Council after notice and public hearing as provided in
§
92.034.
(Neb. RS 17-953.01)
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council adopting the proposition to make such
purchase or erect such building or buildings for the purposes set forth in
division (A) above shall have the power to borrow money and pledge the property
and credit of the city upon its negotiable bonds. No such bonds shall be issued
until after the same have been authorized by a majority vote of the electors
voting on the proposition of their issuance, at a general city election or at a
special election called for the submission of such proposition. The question of
such purchase or erection of such a building or buildings, as set forth in
division (A) above, and the question of the issuance of the negotiable bonds
referred to in this division (D) may be submitted as one question at a general
city or special election if so ordered by resolution or ordinance.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the election shall be given by
publication in some legal newspaper printed in or of general circulation in the
city three successive weeks immediately prior thereto.
      (3)   No such election for the issuance of such bonds shall be called
until a petition therefor signed by at least 10% of the legal voters of the
city has been presented to the City Council. The number of voters voting at the
last regular city election prior to the presenting of the petition shall be
deemed the number of votes in the city for the purpose of determining the
sufficiency of the petition.
      (4)   The question of bond issues for such purpose in the city, when
defeated, shall not be resubmitted for six months from and after the date of
such election.
      (5)   When the building to be constructed is to be used by the state or
its agency or agencies under a lease authorized by Neb. RS Chapter 72, Article
14, or the building is to be leased by any other political or governmental
subdivision of the state, when the combined area of the building to be leased
by the state or its agency or agencies and the political or governmental
subdivision of the state is more than 50% of the area of the building, and when
such sum does not exceed $2,000,000, then no such vote of the electors will be
required.
(Neb. RS 17-954)
§ 92.033 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the city shall not purchase,
lease-purchase, or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Neb. RS 13-403)
§ 92.034 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; PUBLIC MEETING; ACCESS FOR RECREATIONAL
USE.
   (A)   The city shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the City Council has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The city shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Neb. RS 18-1755)
§ 92.035 PUBLIC WORKS INVOLVING ARCHITECTURE OR ENGINEERING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and Neb. RS 81-3449
and 81-3453, the city shall not engage in the construction of any public works
involving architecture or engineering unless the plans, specifications, and
estimates have been prepared and the construction has been observed by an
architect, a professional engineer, or a person under the direct supervision of
an architect, or professional engineer, or those who are under the direct
supervision of an architect or professional engineer.
      (2)   This division (A) shall not apply to any public work in which the
contemplated expenditure for the complete project does not exceed $100,000 or
the adjusted dollar amount set by the Board of Engineers and Architects.
(Neb. RS 81-3445)
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
architecture do not apply to the following activities or the other activities
specified in Neb. RS 81-3449:
      (1)   Any alteration, renovation, or remodeling of a building if the
alteration, renovation, or remodeling does not affect architectural or
engineering safety features of the building;
      (2)   A public service provider who employs a design professional
performing professional services for itself;
      (3)   The practice of any other certified trade or legally recognized
profession;
      (4)   Earthmoving and related work associated with soil and water
conservation practices performed on any land owned by the city that is not
subject to a permit from the Department of Natural Resources; and
      (5)   The work of employees and agents of the city performing, in
accordance with other requirements of law, their customary duties in the
administration and enforcement of codes, permit programs, and land-use
regulations and their customary duties in utility and public works
construction, operation, and maintenance.
(Neb. RS 81-3449)
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above regulating the practice of
engineering do not apply to the following activities, the activities specified
in division (B) above, or the other activities specified in Neb. RS 81-3453:
      (1)   Those services ordinarily performed by subordinates under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or those commonly designated as
locomotive, stationary, marine operating engineers, power plant operating
engineers, or manufacturers who supervise the operation of or operate machinery
or equipment or who supervise construction within their own plant; and
      (2)   The construction of water wells as defined in Neb. RS 46-1212, the
installation of pumps and pumping equipment into water wells, and the
decommissioning of water wells, unless such construction, installation, or
decommissioning is required by the city to be designed or supervised by an
engineer or unless legal requirements are imposed upon the city as a part of a
public water supply.
(Neb. RS 81-3453)
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the city is considered a public
service provider if it employs or appoints an architect or a professional
engineer to be in responsible charge of the city’s architectural or engineering
work.
(Neb. RS 81-3423)
§ 92.036 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS OR IMPROVEMENTS; NOTICE TO
NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Before any political subdivision or special taxing district for public
works or public improvements shall be formed, and before the city or any
political subdivision or special taxing district may impose any special
assessment for public works or public improvements, a copy of any notice
required to be published by law shall be mailed to the last known address of
all nonresident property owners as shown on the current tax rolls at the time
such notice is first published.
(Neb. RS 13-310)
   (B)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to the formation of a special
taxing district for public works or public improvements shall mail by certified
mail, with return receipt requested, a copy of the published notice in regard
to the formation of any special taxing district within the city to the last
known address as shown on the current tax rolls of each nonresident property
owner.
(Neb. RS 13-311)
   (C)   The City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty is imposed by
law to publish notice required by law in regard to any special assessment by a
special taxing district shall mail by certified mail, with return receipt
requested, a copy of such notice to be published to the last known address as
shown on the current tax rolls of each nonresident property owner.
(Neb. RS 13-312)
   (D)   The failure of the City Clerk or any other person upon whom the duty
is imposed by law to mail a copy of a published notice as provided in this
section shall invalidate the assessment against the property involved while
permitting all other assessments and procedures to be lawful.
(Neb. RS 13-313)
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NONRESIDENT PROPERTY OWNER. Any person or corporation whose residence and
mailing address, as shown on the current tax rolls, is outside the boundaries
of the county and who is a record owner of property within the boundaries of
the city, special assessment district, or taxing district involved.
(Neb. RS 13-314)
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.050 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice,
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud, or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the City
Council has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the business district
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case,
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the city shall be cleaned within 24 hours after
the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.051 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   (A)   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the
sidewalk lying between lot line and curbline unless a permit has been obtained
from the City Council. Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall submit
plans and specifications of any present or proposed construction to the City
Engineer. If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the Engineer, no
permit shall be granted.
   (B)   All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon the condition
that the party receiving them builds, maintains, and keeps in repair a sidewalk
over the space used or constructed to be used and pays all damages that may be
sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason of the sidewalk
being defective or in a dangerous condition.
   (C)   As a condition precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit
for the use of any space underneath the city sidewalks as contemplated in this
section, the City Council may require the applicant to furnish a bond to the
city as obligee for the benefit of any person who may suffer an injury or
damage by reason of such use. The bond shall be in such sum as the City
Council, in its discretion, may designate.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.052 CONSTRUCTION AT OWNER’S INITIATIVE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to construct, or cause to be constructed, any
sidewalk shall do so only as provided in this section. It shall be unlawful for
any person to construct any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make application in writing for a permit and file such
application in the office of the City Clerk. The permit shall give a
description of the lot or piece of land along which the sidewalk is to be
constructed. The Overseer of Streets shall issue the desired permit unless good
cause appears why the permit should be denied, except that if it is desired to
construct the sidewalk at any other than the regularly prescribed location,
grade, or elevation, the Overseer of Streets shall submit the application to
the City Council for determination as to whether the permit should be granted
or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, or cause to be
constructed, such sidewalk at any other location, grade, or elevation than so
designated by the city. All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the
established grade or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on
the grade or elevation indicated by the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.053 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT CITY DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense of such construction or
repairs on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Mayor and City Council after having received due notice to do so, the Mayor and
City Council may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may
assess the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner.
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the City Council at a special
meeting, by a resolution, taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city at
least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof, personal
service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be assessed;
and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 92.065 DEDICATION TO PUBLIC USE.
   No street or alley which shall hereafter be dedicated to public use by the
Proprietor of Ground in the city shall be deemed a public street or alley, or
be under the use or control of the City Council, unless the dedication shall be
accepted and confirmed by an ordinance especially passed for such purpose.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 92.066 GRADING, PAVING, AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city has the power to provide for the grading and repair of any street,
avenue, or alley and the construction of bridges, culverts, and sewers. No
street, avenue, or alley shall be graded unless the grading is ordered to be
done by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-508)
Cross-reference:
   Other provisions on grading and paving, see §
92.002
Statutory reference:
   Acquisition of additional land or easement, see Neb. RS 18-1705
   Boundary street with county or another municipality, see Neb. RS 18-2005
   Limited street improvement districts, see Neb. RS 19-2416
§ 92.067 IMPROVEMENTS WITHOUT PETITION OR CREATION OF DISTRICT.
   (A)   The city may, without petition or creating a street improvement
district, grade, curb, gutter, and pave:
      (1)   Any portion of a street otherwise paved so as to make one
continuous paved street, but the portion to be so improved shall not exceed two
blocks, including intersections, or 1,325 feet, whichever is the lesser;
      (2)   Any unpaved street or alley which intersects a paved street for a
distance of not to exceed one block on either side of that paved street; and
      (3)   Any side street or alley within its corporate limits connecting
with a major traffic street for a distance not to exceed one block from that
major traffic street.
   (B)   Those improvements may be performed upon any portion of a street or
alley or any unpaved street or alley not previously improved to meet or exceed
the minimum standards for pavement set by the city for its paved streets.
   (C)   In order to defray the costs and expenses of these improvements, the
Mayor and City Council may levy and collect special taxes and assessments or
issue paving bonds as provided in Neb. RS 18-2003.
(Neb. RS 18-2001 through 18-2004)
§ 92.068 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING, OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have the power to open, widen, or otherwise
improve or vacate any street, avenue, alley, or lane within the limits of the
city and also to create, open, and improve any new street, avenue, alley, or
lane. All damages sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of
the property therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided
by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof, and become a part of that property unless the city reserves title in
the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged, or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley, or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property unless the
city reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or
alley. If title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed,
exchanged, or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the city.
      (4)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue,
alley, or lane, the city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the
vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of
Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located, to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair, and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property
is vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities, and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew, and operate
water mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines,
sound and signal transmission lines, and other similar services and equipment
and appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on, or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The city shall have the power to create, open, widen, or extend any
street, avenue, alley, off-street parking area, or other public way, or annul,
vacate, or discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 92.069 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses or damages or injuries which a
property owner suffers that are peculiar or special or unique to his or her
property and which result from the City Council vacating a street, avenue,
alley, lane, or similar public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES shall not mean those losses
or damages or injuries that a property owner suffers that are in common with
the rest of the city or the public at large, even though those losses or
damages or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in degree than
the rest of the city or public at large.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council decides that it would be in the best
interests of the city to vacate a street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way, the City Council shall comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice. Notice shall be given to all abutting property owners
either by first-class mail to their last known address or, if there is no known
address, then by publishing the notice in a newspaper that is of general
circulation in the city. The content of the notice shall advise the abutting
property owners that the City Council will consider vacating that street,
avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way at its next regular meeting, or if a
special meeting is scheduled for the discussion, then the date, time, and place
of that meeting.
      (2)   Consent; waiver. The City Council may have all the abutting
property owners sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken
by the City Council and waive their right of access. The signing of this form
shall have no effect on claims for special damages by the abutting property
owners but shall create the presumption that the City Council’s action was
proper. If the abutting property owners do not sign the consent/waiver form,
the City Council may still proceed with vacating the street, avenue, alley,
lane, or similar public way under the authority granted by Neb. RS 17-558 and
17-559.
      (3)   Ordinance. The City Council shall pass an ordinance that includes
essentially the following provisions:
         (a)   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
or in the best interests of the city;
         (b)   A statement that the city will have an easement for maintaining
all utilities; and
         (c)   A method or procedure for ascertaining special damages to
abutting property owners.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three or five or seven disinterested residents
of the city to a special commission to ascertain the amount of special damages
that the abutting property owners are entitled to receive and which resulted
from the City Council vacating the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar
public way. The appointees of the special commission shall be approved by the
City Council. Only special damages shall be awarded to the abutting property
owners.
   (D)   In determining the amount of compensation to award the abutting
property owners as special damages, the commission shall use the following
rule.
 
An abutting property owner is entitled to recover as compensation the
difference between the value of the property immediately before and immediately
after the vacating of the street, avenue, alley, lane, or similar public way.
If no difference in value exists, the abutting property owner is entitled to no
compensation.
 
§ 92.070 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Overseer of Streets, those street, avenue, and alley
crossings as the City Council deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Overseer of Streets, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
City Council. Action by the City Council on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 92.071 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   The City Council may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or provide
a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business purposes
and located along those streets shall retain those numbers as the City Council
may require. It shall be the duty of the Overseer of Streets, upon the erection
of any new building, to assign the proper numbers to the building and give
notice to the owner and occupant of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.072 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken, or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If, within 30 days of mailing the notice, the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Overseer of
Streets may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the property
served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.073 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Overseer of Streets authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.074 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Overseer of Streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.075 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.076 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene, or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.077 SNOW, DEBRIS, AND THE LIKE ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, push, or deposit snow, sleet, ice, or mud, or
any debris, including leaves, grass, and branches, from private property onto
the streets of the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-557
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Running at large; tethering
   
93.03   Wild animals
   
93.04   Killing, poisoning, and injuring
   
93.05   Enclosures
   
93.06   Abandonment, neglect, and mistreatment
   
93.07   Equines; bovines; prohibited acts
   
93.08   Impoundment
   
93.09   Officer’s compensation
   
93.10   Interference with police
Rabies
   
93.25   Definitions
   
93.26   Vaccination required; cost; exemptions
   
93.27   Post-incident management
   
93.28   Domestic or hybrid animal or livestock; post-exposure management
   
93.29   Animal pound; impoundment; release; fees
   
93.30   Proclamation of danger
   
93.31   Enforcement
Dogs
   
93.45   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
93.46   Collar or harness required
   
93.47   Removal of collar, harness, or tags
   
93.48   Liability of owner
   
93.49   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
93.50   Dangerous dogs
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure, or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors, or has charge,
custody, or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or
be lodged or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard,
lot, grounds, or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel
operator temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by
another person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (1)   A leash, cord, chain, or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (2)   A leash, cord, chain, or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (3)   Being confined within cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure, or shelter; or
      (4)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 93.02 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose, or other animal, except a cat, to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the city or to be tethered or staked out
in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way
or property or any property of another. The owner of a cat may permit the cat
to run at large within the corporate limits, subject to any restrictions or
prohibitions otherwise imposed by the City Council.
   (B)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to permit anyone to own an animal in the corporate limits of the city
that is prohibited by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 93.03 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 KILLING, POISONING, AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer, or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim, or destroy,
or attempt to injure, maim, or destroy, any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous, or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
93.99 
§ 93.06 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the city or any other city or
village, or any other public official authorized by the city or any other city
or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules, regulations,
or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special investigator
appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb. RS 81-201
while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goat, domesticated
cervine animal, ratite bird, or poultry.
      OWNER OR CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B)    Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 through 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C)    Violation. 
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit cruelty to animals, see Neb. RS 17-138
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
§ 93.07 EQUINES; BOVINES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-911)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall, or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall, or dragging of any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-912)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Livestock Animal Welfare Act, see Neb. RS 54-907 through 54-912
§ 93.08 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
93.29 does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment, and maintenance.
   (C)   Notice of the impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the
City Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of
impoundment. Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed
to the owner listed on the license application by regular United States mail to
the address listed on the application.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the
office of the City Clerk, except that in addition, an unusual or other
nondomesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition that the
owner shall immediately remove the animal from the city or destroy it. A
diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and safely
of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal shall
be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of the required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with the applicable
rules and regulations, except that if, in the judgment of the officer, a
suitable home can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to
the person who can provide such home and the new owner shall be required to pay
all fees and meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements. The
city shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any other animal
impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period after giving notice. The owner of the animal shall remain liable for
payment of the fees established by the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 93.09 OFFICER’S COMPENSATION.
   If the City Council so provides, any official appointed or designated to
destroy and dispose of animals under the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid, in addition to his or her regular salary or other compensation, the sum
set by the Council for each animal so destroyed and disposed of.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to compensate keeper of pound, see Neb. RS 17-548
§ 93.10 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon, or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
Cross-reference:
   Obstructing a peace officer prohibited, see §
132.05
RABIES
§ 93.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the species
Felis domesticus, or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor, or have control of, charge of, or custody of
a domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring, or having charge or
control of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic or hybrid
animal to habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person’s
house, yard, or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel
operators temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals
owned by other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. City health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in this state
or licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
§ 93.26 VACCINATION REQUIRED; COST; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every domestic animal in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies
with a licensed vaccine and revaccinated at intervals specified by rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department. Young domestic animals
shall be initially vaccinated at the age specified in the rules and
regulations. Unvaccinated domestic animals acquired or moved into the city
shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival unless under the
age for initial vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, every hybrid animal
in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be revaccinated at
intervals specified by the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department. A young hybrid animal shall be initially vaccinated at the age
specified in such rules and regulations. An unvaccinated hybrid animal acquired
or moved into the city shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or
arrival unless under the age for initial vaccination.
      (2)   The rabies vaccine used to vaccinate a hybrid animal pursuant to
this section shall be sold only to licensed veterinarians.
      (3)   An owner of a hybrid animal in the city prior to the date of
development of a licensed vaccine determined scientifically to be reliable in
preventing rabies in a hybrid animal shall have one year after such date to
comply with this section.
(Neb. RS 71-4402)
   (C)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
domestic or hybrid animal.
(Neb. RS 71-4404)
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter, with respect to vaccination,
shall not apply to any domestic or hybrid animal owned by a person temporarily
remaining within the city for less than 30 days, to any domestic or hybrid
animal brought into the city for field trial or show purposes, or to any
domestic or hybrid animal brought into the city for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days. Such domestic or hybrid animals shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any
domestic or hybrid animal into the city which does not comply with the animal
health laws and import rules and regulations of the state which are applicable
to domestic or hybrid animals.
      (2)   Domestic or hybrid animals assigned to a research institution or a
similar facility shall be exempt from this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 71-4405)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 POST-INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 DOMESTIC OR HYBRID ANIMAL OR LIVESTOCK; POST-EXPOSURE MANAGEMENT.
   Domestic or hybrid animals or livestock known to have been exposed to a
confirmed or suspected rabid animal shall be subjected to post-exposure
management as provided in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by
the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4407) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.29 ANIMAL POUND; IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The rabies control authority may authorize an animal pound or
pounds or may enter into a cooperative agreement with a licensed veterinarian
for the establishment and operation of a pound.
      (2)   Any dog or hybrid of the family Canidae found outside the owner’s
premises whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and valid rabies vaccination tag for the dog or hybrid of the family Canidae
shall be impounded. The rabies control authority may require the impoundment of
domestic or hybrid animals other than dogs or hybrids of the family Canidae.
All impounded domestic or hybrid animals shall be given proper care, treatment,
and maintenance. Each impounded domestic or hybrid animal shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a period of not less than 72 hours unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner.
      (3)   Notice of the impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of prescribed pound fees and
by complying with the rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within
72 hours of release. Any vaccinated domestic or hybrid animal impounded because
its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for the domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed
by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all
impoundment fees prior to release.
      (4)   At the expiration of impoundment, a domestic or hybrid animal may
be claimed by payment of the established pound fees and by compliance with the
rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within 72 hours of release.
If the domestic or hybrid animal is unclaimed at the end of five days, the
authorities may dispose of the domestic or hybrid animal in accordance with
applicable laws or rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 71-4408)
   (B)   Impoundment fees shall be paid by the owner. Fees for impoundment at
public facilities shall be established by the rabies control authority.
(Neb. RS 71-4411)
§ 93.30 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever, in its opinion, the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the City Council shall issue a proclamation
ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to confine it
for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the date of the
proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be harbored by any
good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or yard on the premises on which
the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all owners of any such
species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in this section.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the owner of any domestic or hybrid animal or other animal fails
or refuses to comply with §§
93.27 or
93.28, the rabies control authority shall obtain an order for seizure of the
animal pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 29, Article 8.
(Neb. RS 71-4410)
   (B)   In the city, all ordinances, codes, or rules and regulations
concerning the control of rabies or the vaccination of domestic or hybrid
animals against rabies shall be enforced by the city health and law enforcement
officials or those other officers with regulatory authority as specified by the
City Council.
(Neb. RS 71-4412)
DOGS
§ 93.45 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the city shall,
within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the dog
annually by or before May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by the City
Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by the City
Council, plus the $1.25 fee required under Neb. RS 54-603(3). It shall be
unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed
female dog as a male or spayed female dog if the Council has established
different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to the
owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be valid
until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the City Council for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the General Fund of the city, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate, and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, and 71-4412
§ 93.46 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
93.99 
§ 93.47 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS, OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag, or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.48 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602, and 54-606
§ 93.49 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers, or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the city.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the City Clerk or
animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint
is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this
section, the city police or animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants, notify the
owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
city animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 93.50 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the city, and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the
city.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals, and
includes any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties, in
whole or in part, include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage, or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock. LIVESTOCK includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment;
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city,
or village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may
grant such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and
the dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of
the county, city, or village in which he or she resides with regard to
dangerous dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control
authority shall not grant permission under this section if the county, city, or
village has an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous
dogs. After the permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and
such dog for a period of at least 30 days, but not to exceed 90 days, to ensure
the owner’s compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city, or
village with regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B)(4) shall
permit the rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor, or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control, any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   (a)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog
shall be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of
young children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall
have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one
foot. The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The
pen or structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the
owner.
         (b)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the
property where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of
public access and that inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
Each warning sign shall be not less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall
contain the words “warning” and “dangerous animal” in high-contrast lettering
at least three inches high on a black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2) In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   If a dangerous dog of an owner with a prior conviction under this
section attacks or bites a human being or domestic animal, in addition to any
other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control authority, placed in quarantine for the proper length of time, and
thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   As set out in §
93.50, any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a serious bodily
injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I misdemeanor for the
first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (B)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
      
113.   SALES AND ADVERTISING
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.01   Levies authorized
   
110.02   Collection dates
   
110.03   Certificates
   
110.04   Failure to pay
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.01 LEVIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have the power to raise revenue by levying and
collecting a license tax on any occupation or business within the limits of the
city and regulate such occupation or business by ordinance. Any occupation tax
imposed pursuant to this section shall make a reasonable classification of
businesses, users of space, or kinds of transactions for the purpose of
imposing such tax, except that no occupation tax shall be imposed on any
transaction which is subject to tax under Neb. RS 53-160, 66-489, 66-489.02,
66-4,140, 66-4,145, 66-4,146, 77-2602, or 77-4008, or which is exempt from tax
under Neb. RS 77-2704.24.
      (2)   The occupation tax shall be imposed in the manner provided in Neb.
RS 18-1208, except that Neb. RS 18-1208 does not apply to an occupation tax
subject to Neb. RS 86-704. All such taxes shall be uniform in respect to the
classes upon which they are imposed. All scientific and literary lectures and
entertainments shall be exempt from such taxation, as well as concerts and
other musical entertainments given exclusively by the citizens of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-525)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council shall have the authority, by ordinance, to
impose an occupation tax of not more than $5 per annum on each fire insurance
corporation, company, or association doing business in the city for the use,
the support, and the benefit of volunteer fire departments regularly organized
under the laws of the state regulating the same. The City Clerk shall collect
with diligence the occupation tax so imposed.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the tax, the Clerk shall pay over the proceeds
thereof to the City Treasurer, who shall credit the same to a fund to be known
as the Special Occupation Tax Fund for the benefit of the volunteer Fire
Department. Upon proper claim filed by the Chief of the Fire Department and
allowed by the City Council, the Treasurer shall pay over the proceeds of the
tax in the fund from time to time for the use of the Fire Department, as
hereinbefore provided.
(Neb. RS 35-106)
   (C)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., and doing business within the corporate limits of the city in any sum
which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under
the Act to obtain such license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
Statutory reference:
   Occupation taxes generating more than $300,000; imposition or increase;
election required, see Neb. RS 18-1208
§ 110.02 COLLECTION DATES.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the City Council shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except that
any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and
payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by any
person to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated,
specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue collected
shall be deposited into the General Fund by the City Treasurer except as
otherwise specifically provided. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate account
of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
Statutory reference:
   Occupation tax; power to levy; exceptions, see Neb. RS 17-525
§ 110.03 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.04 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company, or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
111.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
111.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
111.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
111.16   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
111.17   Licensee requirements
   
111.18   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
111.19   Licensed premises; inspections
   
111.20   License renewal; city powers and duties
   
111.21   Catering licenses
   
111.22   Display of license
   
111.23   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
111.24   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent, or employee
   
111.25   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
111.40   Location
   
111.41   Access to dwellings
   
111.42   Sanitary conditions
   
111.43   Hours of sale
   
111.44   Credit sales prohibited
   
111.45   Original package required
   
111.46   Minor’s presence restricted
   
111.47   Keg sales; requirements; prohibited acts
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol substance offenses, see
Chapter 133
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
a different meaning.
§ 111.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange, or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift, or procuring of, any alcoholic liquors to or for any
minor, or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the State Liquor Control Commission has issued a license
as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08, it is
unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned or
controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café, or club, or any place
open to the general public, to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor in any
dance hall, restaurant, café, or club, or any place open to the general public,
except as permitted by a license issued for such premises pursuant to the Act.
      (3)   This division (B) does not apply to a retail licensee while
lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages or to limousines or
buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and, in the judgment of the
officer, dangerous to himself, herself, or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic, or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury.
      (2)   The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctors which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals.
      (3)    If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the officer
may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody, except that
civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary to preserve
life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park,
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 111.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the State Liquor Control Act, Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   (a)   The making, transport, and delivery of wine, cider, beer,
mead, perry, or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables,
honey or grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without
distillation:
            1.   If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
             2.   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival, or
tasting competition, including exhibitions, festivals, or tasting competitions
that are for nonprofit organizations, such as fundraising events, legally
conducted under the Act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for
sale.
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor served pursuant to division (B)(2)(a) above
shall clearly be identified as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an
exception to the rules and regulations of the Commission by signage, and the
location of the manufacturer shall be available upon request. Free or reduced
admission to the exhibition, festival, or tasting competition shall not be
considered a sale of the alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of worship
for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., unless within specific
exemptions or exceptions provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in the case of
railroad, airline, boat, or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has plead guilty to a felony
under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has plead guilty to any Class
I misdemeanor pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act,
Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act, would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   (a)   Except as provided in this division (A)(13), an applicant
whose spouse is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor
license. Such an applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if
the State Liquor Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public
interest will not be infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be
prima facie evidence that when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor
license, the applicant is also ineligible to receive a liquor license.
         (b)   This prima facie evidence shall be overcome if it is shown to
the satisfaction of the Commission:
            1.   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
            2.   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet the
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
§ 111.18 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., the
business of all retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
licensees carried on within the corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery of such application from the State Liquor Control
Commission, notice and a copy of an application for a new license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail, a craft brewery license, or a microdistillery
license, the City Council may make and submit to the Commission recommendations
relative to the granting or refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   (a)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter
at any time upon any premises licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb.
RS 53-101 et seq., to determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or
regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is
being violated, and at that time, examine the premises of the licensee in
connection with such determination.
         (b)   Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
            1.   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
            2.   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
            3.   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing as provided in §
111.25, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or any valid and
subsisting ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted,
and promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission
shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in
Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit, from the applicant and any other person bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city one
time not less than seven, and not more than 14, days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing, the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of the notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and 53-129;
and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the Commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this division (C).
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the State Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if, by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124, the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of the notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of the notice of renewal, if applicable,
as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et
seq., and doing business within the corporate limits of the city in any sum
which exceeds two times the amount of the license fee required to be paid under
the Act to obtain that license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
§ 111.19 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the State Liquor
Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or the rules and regulations of the State
Liquor Control Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes
of this chapter or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled, or revoked
after the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
§ 111.20 LICENSE RENEWAL; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the City Council to require the licensee to
submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an
area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a
license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all
license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more
than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and January 30
of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 111.21 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.18.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 111.22 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain view in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.,
or any city ordinance, that owner, agent, or other person shall be deemed
guilty of a violation of the Act or ordinance to the same extent as the
licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.24 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT, OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or
any city ordinance by any officer, director, manager, or other agent or
employee of any licensee, if the act is committed or omission is made with the
authorization, knowledge, or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held
to be the act of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall
be punishable in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.25 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the State Liquor Control Act, Neb. RS 53-101 et seq., or the rules
or regulations issued pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in
the form prescribed by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the
parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule,
or regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for the purpose of
appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 111.40 LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license
shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle
club within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital, or home for indigent
persons or for veterans and their wives or children.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to any location within such
distance of 150 feet:
         (a)   For which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a
bottle club has been granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two
years continuously prior to the making of application for a license;
         (b)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized
clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other places where the sale of
alcoholic liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such place of
business so exempted was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935;
or
         (c)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb.
RS 53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold for consumption on the premises
within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university in the state,
except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university, but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F) below, the Commission may
waive the 300-foot restriction in division (C) above, taking into consideration
one or more of the following:
      (1)   The impact of retail sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises on the academic mission of the college or university;
      (2)   The impact on students and prospective students if such sales were
permitted on or near campus;
      (3)   The impact on economic development opportunities located within or
in proximity to the campus; and
      (4)   The waiver would likely reduce the number of applications for
special designated licenses requested by the college or university or its
designee.
   (E)   (1)   To apply for a waiver under this section, the applicant shall
submit a written application to the Commission. The Commission shall notify the
governing body of the affected college or university when the Commission
receives an application for a waiver.
      (2)   The application shall include:
         (a)   The address of the location for which the waiver is requested;
         (b)   The name and type of business for which the waiver is requested;
and
         (c)   A description of the justification for the waiver, explaining
how the proposed location complies with the findings prescribed in division (C)
above.
   (F)   The Commission shall not waive the 300-foot restriction in division
(C) above without written approval from the governing body of the college or
university or its designee if the physical location of the property which is
the subject of the requested waiver is:
      (1)   Surrounded by property owned by the college or university,
including any public or private easement, street, or right-of-way adjacent to
the property owned by the college or university; or
      (2)   Adjacent to property on two or more sides owned by the college or
university, including any public or private easement, street, or right-of-way
adjacent to the property owned by the college or university.
   (G)   No bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of
any college or university in the state.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.41 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which has any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public.
   (B)   This section does not prevent any connection between the premises and
such other portion of the building or structure which is used only by the
licensee, his or her family, or personal guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.42 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor
establishment that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities
shall be adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed
premises shall be subject to any health inspections the City Council or the
city police may make or cause to be made.
   (B)   All applications for liquor licenses shall be viewed in part from the
standpoint of the sanitary conditions, and a report concerning the sanitary
conditions shall be made at all hearings concerning the application for or
renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 111.43 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., except that
the City Council, with respect to an area inside the corporate limits of the
city, may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the City Council,
no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or dispensed
inside the corporate limits of the city between the hours of 6:00 a.m. Sunday
and 1:00 a.m. Monday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12:00 p.m., noon,
on Sunday to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the holder of a
Class C license or a Class I license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in the
possession or control of any person for the purpose of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a licensed premises from being
open for other business on the days and hours during which the sale or
dispensing of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.44 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered, and if
any person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to
be created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or the bona fide guests
of members and charged to the accounts of such members or guests in accordance
with the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.45 ORIGINAL PACKAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except a manufacturer or wholesaler, shall fill or refill,
in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the same or
any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
for sale at retail any bottles, casks, or other containers containing alcoholic
liquor except in original packages.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the refilling of original
packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly private use and not for resale.
(Neb. RS 53-184) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.46 MINOR’S PRESENCE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, or leases an
establishment selling alcoholic beverages at retail to allow any minor under
the age of 18 years of age to frequent or otherwise remain in the establishment
unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian, and
unless the minor remains seated with and under the immediate control of the
parent or legal guardian.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
§ 111.47 KEG SALES; REQUIREMENTS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or 18.92 or more liters, the seller shall record the
date of the sale, the keg identification number, the purchaser’s name and
address, and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle operator’s license,
state identification card, tribal enrollment card as defined in Neb. RS 28-
1202.03, or military identification, if the military identification contains a
picture of the purchaser, together with the purchaser’s signature. This record
shall be on a form prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commission and shall
be kept by the licensee at the retail establishment where the purchase was made
for not less than six months. The records kept pursuant to this section shall
be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer during normal
business hours or at any other reasonable time. Any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.02)
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully tampers with, alters, or removes the keg
identification number from a container described in division (A) above, or is
in possession of a container described in division (A) above with an altered or
removed keg identification number after the container has been taken from the
licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before its return to the
licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are accepted, shall be
guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 53-167.03)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO AND CIGARETTES
Section
   
112.01   License to sell; issuance
   
112.02   License application
   
112.03   License term; fees
   
112.04   Rights of licensee
   
112.05   Disposition of fees
   
112.06   Transfer of license
   
112.07   Reissuance of revoked and forfeited license
Cross-reference:
   Tobacco substance offenses, see
Chapter 133
§ 112.01 LICENSE TO SELL; ISSUANCE.
   Licenses for the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic nicotine delivery
systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material to persons 21 years of age or over
shall be issued to individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, and
corporations by the City Clerk upon application duly made as provided in §
112.02.
(Neb. RS 28-1421)
Statutory reference:
   Licenses required, see Neb. RS 28-1420
   Prohibited sales, see Neb. RS 28-1421
§ 112.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
desiring a license under Neb. RS 28-1420 through 28-1429 shall file with the
City Clerk a written application stating:
      (1)   The name of the person, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation for whom the license is desired;
      (2)   An email address for contacting such person, partnership, limited
liability company, or corporation; and
      (3)   The exact location of the place of business.
   (B)   Each applicant shall also deposit with the application the amount of
the license fee provided in §
112.03.
   (C)   If the applicant is an individual, the application shall include the
applicant’s Social Security number.
   (D)   Any Clerk or Finance Department that grants such a license shall
notify the Tax Commissioner of such granting and transmit all applicable
application materials received to the Tax Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 28-1422)
§ 112.03 LICENSE TERM; FEES.
   (A)   The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made.
   (B)   The license fee for any person, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation selling at retail shall be $10.
   (C)   Any person, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation
selling annually in the aggregate more than 150,000 cigars, packages of
cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco in
any form at wholesale shall pay a license fee of $100, and if such combined
annual sales amount to less than 150,000 cigars, packages of cigarettes,
electronic nicotine delivery systems, and packages of tobacco, the annual
license fee shall be $15. No wholesaler’s license shall be issued in any year
on a less basis than $100 per annum unless the applicant shall file with the
application a statement duly sworn to by himself or herself, or if the
applicant is a partnership, by a member of the firm, or if a limited liability
company, by a member or manager of the company, or if a corporation, by an
officer or manager thereof, that in the past such wholesaler’s combined sales
of cigars, packages of cigarettes, electronic nicotine delivery systems, and
packages of tobacco in every form have not exceeded in the aggregate 150,000
annually, and that such sales will not exceed such aggregate amount for the
current year for which the license is to issue. Any person who swears falsely
in such affidavit shall be guilty of an offense, and such wholesaler’s license
shall be revoked until the full license fee is paid.
   (D)   If application for a license is made after July 1 of any calendar
year, the fee shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1423) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 RIGHTS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The license provided for in §§
112.01 and
112.02 shall, when issued, authorize the sale of cigars, tobacco, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, cigarettes, and cigarette material by the licensee
and employees to persons 21 years of age or over, at the place of business
described in the license for the term therein authorized, unless the license is
forfeited as a result of court action as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425.
(Neb. RS 28-1424)
   (B)   If the license is revoked and forfeited pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1425,
all rights under the license shall at once cease and terminate and a new
license shall not be issued until the expiration of the period provided for in
Neb. RS 28-1429.
(Neb. RS 28-1425)
Statutory reference:
   Sale to person under 21 prohibited; penalties, see Neb. RS 28-1425
§ 112.05 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected as license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid over by the City Clerk to the Treasurer of the School Fund for
the city.
(Neb. RS 28-1426)
§ 112.06 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   In case of the sale of a business where the owner has a license hereunder,
the City Clerk may authorize such license to be transferred to the purchaser.
In case of a change of location by any licensee hereunder, the City Clerk may
transfer such license to the new location.
(Neb. RS 28-1428)
§ 112.07 REISSUANCE OF REVOKED AND FORFEITED LICENSE.
   (A)   If a license issued under Neb. RS 28-1420 through 28-1429 is revoked
and forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425 for a violation of Neb. RS 28-
1429.04 or 28-1429.05, no new license shall be issued to such licensee until
the expiration of five years after the date of such revocation and forfeiture.
   (B)   If a license issued under Neb. RS 28-1420 through 28-1429 is revoked
and forfeited as provided in Neb. RS 28-1425 for any other violation of Neb. RS
28-1418 through 28-1429.03, 28-1429.06, and 28-1429.07, no new license shall be
issued to such licensee until the expiration of one year after the date of such
revocation and forfeiture except as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 28-1423.
(Neb. RS 28-1429)
CHAPTER 113: SALES AND ADVERTISING
Section
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   Policy on soliciting
   
113.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.11   Posted notice; solicitors to comply
   
113.12   Prohibited solicitation
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods to be delivered in the
future or for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a
SOLICITOR is not a peddler.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license that is required by this subchapter shall be
as set from time to time by the city.
   (C)   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire 90 days after
the date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   All applicants for licenses required by this subchapter shall
file an application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation.
      (2)   The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   1.   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
            2.   The local address of such individual;
            3.   The permanent address of such individual; and
            4.   The capacity in which such individual will act.
         (c)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose
the business will be carried on, and if a corporation, the state of
incorporation;
         (d)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry
on the applicant’s business;
         (e)   1.   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
            2.   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold
by sample as well as from stock; and
            3.   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
         (f)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the
business;
         (g)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(b)1. above, or the person identified in division (A)(2)(c)
above has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of
each offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this subchapter shall attach
to their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general
welfare.
      (2)   In particular, it will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of
an application when there is tangible evidence that the applicant:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any license or permit granted under this subchapter may be revoked by
the City Clerk after notice and hearing pursuant to the standards in §
113.06. Notice of a hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.
   (B)   Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this subchapter may be revoked for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this subchapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 113.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
         “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.11 POSTED NOTICE; SOLICITORS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located, to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.10, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.10.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal mischief
   
130.02   Criminal trespass
   
130.03   Electrical interference
   
130.04   Injury to trees
   
130.05   Posting
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   A person commits criminal mischief if he or she:
      (1)   Damages the property of another intentionally or recklessly;
      (2)   Intentionally tampers with the property of another so as to
endanger persons or property; or
      (3)   Intentionally or maliciously causes another to suffer a pecuniary
loss by deception or threat.
   (B)   Criminal mischief is an offense:
      (1)   If the actor intentionally or maliciously causes a pecuniary loss
of $500 or more, but less than $5,000; or
      (2)   If the actor intentionally, maliciously, or recklessly causes a
pecuniary loss in an amount of less than $500, or if his or her action results
in no pecuniary loss.
(Neb. RS 28-519) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
         (a)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
         (b)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power
infrastructure facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a
person who has the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE
FACILITY means a power plant, an electrical station or substation, or any other
facility which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103
to support the generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity and
which is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (B)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she enters or
remains in any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon,
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person
without his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means an
aircraft, including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the
aircraft.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign, or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.04 INJURY TO TREES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and
without lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down, or
destroy any fruit, ornamental, shade, or other tree or trees standing or
growing on any land belonging to another person or persons or on any public
land in the corporate limits.
   (B)   Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
City Council to do so, and the written permit of the City Council in accordance
with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only lawful
authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 POSTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the streets, sidewalks, or public
grounds of the city for signs, signposts, or the posting of handbills or
advertisements without the written permission of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   First degree criminal trespass as set out in §
130.02(A) is a Class I misdemeanor.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
      (2)   (a)   Second degree criminal trespass as set out in §
130.02(B) is a Class III misdemeanor, except as provided for in division (B)(2)
(b) below.
         (b)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting, or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots, and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 STREET GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball, or kick
or throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the city
streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the City
Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain, or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display, or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe, or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family, or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with a firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or city;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or of this city.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer acting under color of his or her official authority from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference, or
obstacle, he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs, or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog
owned or controlled by the state or any county, city, or village for the
purpose of assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official
authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH A FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if, at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge of or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation to
protect or control not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or property are in
jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service, or other person or
governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information, or cause information to be furnished or
conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic, or mechanical means, knowing the
same to be false concerning the need for the assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such a department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impeding the investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Neb. RS 28-907) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook, or
stream
   
133.04   Prohibited fences
   
133.05   Littering
   
133.06   Raising or producing stagnant water
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Use of tobacco by persons under the age of 21
   
133.21   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
133.22   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco
   
133.23   Misrepresentation by minor to obtain alcohol
   
133.24   Minors; prohibited acts involving alcoholic liquor
   
133.25   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.40   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.41   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
Weapons Offenses
   
133.55   Discharge of firearms
   
133.56   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol provisions generally, see
Chapter 111
   Health and safety provisions generally, see
Chapter 91
   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles, see §
72.31
   Tobacco provisions generally, see
Chapter 112
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues, and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this city.
   (B)   The following shall be deemed nuisances:
      (1)   The erecting, continuing, using, or maintaining of any building,
structure, or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment,
manufacture, or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations, or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health,
comfort, or property of individuals or the public;
      (2)   The obstructing or impeding, without legal authority, of the
passage of any navigable river, harbor, or collection of water;
      (3)   The corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any
watercourse, stream, or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse
from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and
      (4)   The obstructing or encumbering by fences, buildings, structures or
otherwise of any of the public highways or streets or alleys of the city.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining, or
causing any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section, and
in every such case, the offense shall be construed and held to have been
committed in any county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved
thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer, or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children, whether on private or public property, unless the person first
removes all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK, OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass, or part thereof, or other filthy
substance, into any well or into any spring, brook, or branch of running water
of which use is made for domestic purposes shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, or cause to be erected, and
maintain any barbed wire or electric fence within the corporate limits where
the fence abuts a public sidewalk, street, or alley.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on barbed wire fences, see Neb. RS 39-307
§ 133.05 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards, or otherwise disposes of
any litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the
offense of littering unless:
      (1)   The property is an area designated by law for the disposal of that
type of material and the person is authorized by the proper public authority to
so use the property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on the
property for that purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes all waste material susceptible of being dropped,
deposited, discarded, or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property
in the state, but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or
manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any
motor vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of the
motor vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Neb. RS 28-523) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue, or keep up any dam or other
obstruction in any river or stream of water in the city and thereby raise an
artificial pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly
injurious to the public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense, and
the court shall, moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
10.99
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20 USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever, being a person under the age of 21 years, shall smoke
cigarettes or cigars, use electronic nicotine delivery systems or alternative
nicotine products, or use tobacco in any form whatever in this city shall be
guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Any person charged with a violation of this section may be free from
prosecution if he or she furnishes evidence for the conviction of the person or
persons selling or giving him or her the cigarettes, cigars, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, alternative nicotine products, or tobacco.
(Neb. RS 28-1418) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.21 SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give, or furnish in any way any tobacco in any
form whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic
nicotine delivery systems, or alternative nicotine products, to any person
under 21 years of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) above, a person who is at least 15
years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with division (A) above if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer, or an intern with a
state or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
State Juvenile Code, Neb. RS 43-245 et seq., and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with and
under the authority of this division (B) shall not be in violation of Neb. RS
28-1427.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22 MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Except as provided in §
133.21(B), any person under the age of 21 years who obtains cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes or cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery systems, or
alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he
or she is of the age of 21 years or over is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.23 MISREPRESENTATION BY MINOR TO OBTAIN ALCOHOL.
   No minor, as defined by Neb. RS 53-103.23, shall obtain, or attempt to
obtain, alcoholic liquor by misrepresentation of age, or by any other method,
in any tavern or other place where alcoholic liquor is sold.
(Neb. RS 53-180.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Penalty for manufacturing false identification intended for minors, see Neb.
RS 53-180.05
§ 133.24 MINORS; PROHIBITED ACTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-
103.01 through 53- 103.51 shall apply, including, but not limited to, the
definitions of the terms “alcoholic liquor,” “consume,” “minor,” “sale,” and
“to sell.”
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in §
111.15, no minor may sell, dispense, consume, or have in his or her possession
or physical control any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or in any other place,
including public streets, alleys, roads, or highways, upon property owned by
the state or any subdivision thereof, or inside any vehicle while in or on any
other place, including, but not limited to, the public streets, alleys, roads,
or highways, or upon property owned by the state or any subdivision thereof,
except that a minor may consume, possess, or have physical control of alcoholic
liquor as a part of a bona fide religious rite, ritual, or ceremony or in his
or her permanent place of residence.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to
transport, consume, or knowingly possess or have under his or her control beer
or other alcoholic liquor in or transported by any motor vehicle.
(Neb. RS 53-180.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Minor Alcoholic Liquor Liability Act, see Neb. RS 53-401 through 53-409
   Definitions, where found, see Neb. RS 53-103
§ 133.25 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   Beer, ale, porter, stout, and other similar fermented beverages,
including sake or similar products, of any name or description, containing 0.5%
or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in part,
or from any substitute therefor;
         (b)   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume;
         (c)   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol, or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced; and
         (d)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street, including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and not more than 14 persons behind the driver, with
a physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles, or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can, or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this city.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
111.03 or division (D) below, it is unlawful for any person to consume an
alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this city; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this city.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of,
but not drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party
service as defined by the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
State Public Service Commission and subject to Neb. RS Chapter 75, Article 3.
      (2)   Such passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and
may consume alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public
parking area or on any highway in this city if:
         (a)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
         (b)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08)
Penalty, see §
10.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.40 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act, Neb.
RS 60-301 et seq., affixed thereto, for more than six hours on any public
property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without the permission of the owner, or after
permission of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours after the parking of
such vehicle has become illegal if left on a portion of any public property on
which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without the permission of the owner, or after
permission of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities, and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit, and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, or park
or other state, county, or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the city. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the city
shall be issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the city
shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a) Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the jurisdiction
which issued such license plates; or
         (b) Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also
be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall
be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the city may retain for use, sell, or auction the abandoned vehicle.
If the city has determined that the vehicle should be retained for use, the
city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed, publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an announcement that the
city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will
vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes, and that after 30 days, the agency will dispose
of the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles that are
subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this subsection is
subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private towing
service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model, and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle that is towed away under this
subsection is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the
private towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in division
(A)(a)(5) or (A)(b)(4) above to be removed from public property in this city,
the state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency
caused an abandoned vehicle described in division (A)(a)(1), (A)(a)(2), (A)(a)
(3), or (A)(a)(4) or (A)(b)(1), (A)(b)(2), or (A)(b)(3) above to be removed
from public property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle
to the city, which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city’s
custody, less any expenses incurred by the city, shall be held by the city
without interest for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (I)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in division (A)(a)(1), (A)(a)(2), (A)(a)(3), or (A)(a)(4) or (A)(b)
(1), (A)(b)(2), or (A)(b)(3) above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (J)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface, or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (J) shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (K)   The last registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (L)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.41 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, other
than city property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked, or discarded
vehicle to remain on that property longer than 30 days.
   (B)   No unlicensed vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or
public property for any length of time, provided that this section shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle bearing a valid “In Transit” sticker;
      (2)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
      (3)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner when the vehicle is necessary to the lawful operation
of the business; or
      (4)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner by the city.
   (C)   Any vehicle allowed to remain on property in violation of this section
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated, and any person violating this
section shall be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   “In Transit” stickers, see Neb. RS 60-376
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.55 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer of the law in the
discharge of official duty, to fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other
fowling piece within the city, except that nothing in this section shall be
construed to apply to officially sanctioned public celebrations if the persons
so discharging firearms have written permission from the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 133.56 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun, or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Public indecency
   
134.03   Gambling
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers, or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration,
as those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse in exchange for money or other thing of value commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   (1)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above is:
         (a)   A person engaging in those acts as a direct result of being a
trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830, such person shall be immune
from prosecution for a prostitution offense; or
         (b)   A person under 18 years of age, such person shall be immune from
prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section and shall be subject
to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-248 and further disposition under the
State Juvenile Code, Neb. RS 43-245 et seq.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18 years of age
into custody under this section shall immediately report an allegation of a
violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the Department of Health and Human Services,
which shall commence an investigation within 24 hours under the Child
Protection and Family Safety Act, Neb. RS 28-710 et seq.
(Neb. RS 28-801) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   A person 18 years of age or over commits the offense of public
indecency if such person performs or procures, or assists any other person to
perform, in a public place and where the conduct may reasonably be expected to
be viewed by members of the public:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318;
      (2)   An exposure of the genitals of the body done with the intent to
affront or alarm any person; or
      (3)   A lewd fondling or caressing of the body of another person of the
same or opposite sex.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of this section for an individual to
breast-feed a child in a public place.
(Neb. RS 28-806) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 GAMBLING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 28-
1101 shall be used.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of promoting gambling if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Advances or profits from any unlawful gambling activity by:
         (a)   Engaging in bookmaking;
         (b)   Receiving, in connection with any unlawful gambling scheme or
enterprise, any amount of money played in the scheme or enterprise in any one
day; or
         (c)   Betting something of value in an amount of $500 or more with one
or more persons in one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1102 and 28-1103)
      (2)   Participates in unlawful gambling as a player by betting less than
$500 in any one day.
(Neb. RS 28-1104)
   (C)   (1)   A person commits the offense of possession of a gambling device
if he or she manufactures, sells, transports, places, possesses, or conducts or
negotiates any transaction affecting or designed to affect ownership, custody,
or use of any gambling device knowing that it shall be used in the advancement
of unlawful gambling activity.
      (2)   The owner or operator of a retail establishment who is not a
manufacturer, distributor, or seller of mechanical amusement devices as defined
under the Mechanical Amusement Device Tax Act, Neb. RS 77-3011 et seq., shall
have an affirmative defense to possession of a gambling device described in
division (C)(1) above if the device bears an unexpired mechanical amusement
device decal as required by such Act. However, such affirmative defense may be
overcome if the owner or operator had actual knowledge that operation of the
device constituted unlawful gambling activity at any time such device was
operated on the premises of the retail establishment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this division (C), any
mechanical game or device classified by the federal government as an illegal
gambling device and requiring a federal gambling device tax stamp as required
by the Internal Revenue Service in its administration of 26 U.S.C. §§ 4461 and
4462, amended July 1, 1965, by Pub. Law No. 89-44, is hereby declared to be
illegal.
(Neb. RS 28-1107)
   (D)   In any prosecution under this section, it shall be an affirmative
defense that the writing, paper, instrument, or article possessed by the
defendant was neither used nor intended to be used in the advancement of an
unlawful gambling activity.
(Neb. RS 28-1108)
   (E)   Proof of possession of any gambling device shall be prima facie
evidence of possession thereof with knowledge of its contents and character.
(Neb. RS 28-1109)
   (F)   It shall be no defense to a prosecution under any provision of this
section relating to gambling that the gambling is conducted outside this city
and is not in violation of the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is
conducted.
(Neb. RS 28-1110)
   (G)   In addition to any other penalty, a sentencing court may order that
any money, securities, negotiable instruments, firearms, conveyances, or
electronic communications devices as defined in Neb. RS 28-833, or any
equipment, components, peripherals, software, hardware, or accessories related
to electronic communications devices, or any gambling devices, be forfeited as
a part of the sentence imposed if it finds by clear and convincing evidence
adduced at a separate hearing in the same prosecution, conducted pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1601, that any or all such property was derived from, used, or
intended to be used to facilitate a violation of this section.
(Neb. RS 28-1111)
   (H)   In any prosecution for an offense defined in this section, when the
defendant’s status as a player constitutes an excusing condition, the fact that
the defendant was a player shall constitute an affirmative defense.
(Neb. RS 28-1112)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to:
      (1)   Apply to or prohibit wagering on the results of horseraces by the
parimutuel or certificate method when conducted by licensees within the
racetrack enclosure at licensed horserace meetings;
      (2)   Prohibit or punish the conducting or participating in any bingo,
lottery by the sale of pickle cards, lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise when
conducted in accordance with the State Bingo Act, Neb. RS 9-201 et seq., the
State County and City Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., the State Lottery and
Raffle Act, Neb. RS 9-401 et seq., the State Pickle Card Lottery Act, Neb. RS
9-301 et seq., the State Small Lottery and Raffle Act, Neb. RS 9-501 et seq.,
the State Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-801 et seq., or Neb. RS 9-701; or
      (3)   Apply to or prohibit the operation of games of chance, whether
using a gambling device or otherwise, by authorized gaming operators within
licensed racetrack enclosures or the participation or playing of such games of
chance, whether participated in or played using a gambling device or otherwise,
by individuals 21 years of age or older within licensed racetrack enclosures as
provided in the State Racetrack Gaming Act, Neb. RS 9-1101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 28-1113)
   (J)   In any prosecution under this section in which it is necessary to
prove the occurrence of a sporting event, a published report of its occurrence
in any daily newspaper, magazine, or other periodically printed publication of
general circulation shall be admissible in evidence and shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the occurrence of the event.
(Neb. RS 28-1117)
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.01   Requirement
   
150.02   Limitation
   
150.03   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.04   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
Moving of Buildings
   
150.15   Regulations
   
150.16   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Definition
   
150.31   Prohibitions
   
150.32   Determination; notice
   
150.33   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.34   Emergency
   
150.35   Special assessments
Building Inspector
   
150.50   Power and authority
   
150.51   Right of entry
   
150.52   Permit cards
   
150.53   Time of inspection
   
150.54   Appeal from decision
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.01 REQUIREMENT.
   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct, repair,
enlarge, demolish, or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to
be done, shall file with the City Clerk an application for a building permit.
The application shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk
for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description
of the land upon which the construction or relocation is to take place, the
nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the estimated cost,
the names of the owner, architect, and contractor, and such other information
as may be requested thereon. The application, plans, and specifications so
filed with the City Clerk shall be checked and examined by the City Council,
and if they are found to be in conformity with the requirements of this chapter
and all other ordinances applicable thereto, the City Council shall authorize
the City Clerk to issue the applicant a permit upon payment of a permit fee as
set by the Council by resolution. Whenever there is a discrepancy between
permit application procedures contained herein and those contained in any
building code adopted by reference, the provisions contained herein shall
govern.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.02 LIMITATION.
   If the work for which a permit has been issued shall not have begun within
six months of the date thereof, or if the construction is discontinued for a
period of six months, the permit shall be void. Before work can be resumed, a
new permit shall be obtained in the same manner and form as an original permit.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration, or repair
of any building within the city’s corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the permit
shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.04 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant, or lessee causing the construction, demolition, or moving
of any building or improvement within the city shall protect all excavations,
exposures, open basements, building materials, and debris by suitable
barricades or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The failure,
neglect, or refusal of the owner, tenant, or lessee to erect and maintain such
protections shall constitute a violation of this section, and the Building
Inspector or other city law enforcement authority may stop all work upon the
buildings and improvements until suitable protections are erected and
maintained in the required manner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
move any building or structure within the city without a written permit to do
so. Application may be made to the City Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used, and such other information as the City Council may require.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the
County Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall refer the application to the City Council or its
designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is to be
moved. Upon approval, the City Clerk shall issue the permit, provided that a
good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check, or cash in an amount set by
motion of the City Council, and conditioned upon moving the building without
doing damage to any private or city property, is filed with the City Clerk
prior to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using, or operating the poles, wires, or lines
shall, upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by
disconnecting the poles, wires, or lines relative to the building moving
operation. All expense of the disconnection, removal, or related work shall be
paid in advance by the licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished
on different terms as provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes, or wires belonging to the city, notice in
writing of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given
to the various officials in charge of the city utility departments, who shall
proceed on behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate moving of buildings, see Neb. RS 17-142
§ 150.16 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the City Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any city laws have been violated during the operation.
Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other designated
official, the City Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond, cash, or check
deposited by the applicant.
   (B)   In the event the basement, foundation, or portion thereof is not
properly filled, covered, or in a clean and sanitary condition, the City
Council may apply the money deposited for the purpose of defraying the expense
of correcting the conditions. If the expense of correcting the hazardous
condition is greater than the amount of the deposit set by the City Council,
the City Council may recover the excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as
prescribed by law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence, or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which, because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair, or any other cause, is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which, by reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.31 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the city, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.32 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the City Council or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the city is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   (1)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to
be in an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or
remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that
the condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt.
      (2)   The notice may be in the following terms:
   “To __________________________________ (owner-occupant of premises), of the
premises known and described as _________________________________.
   “You are hereby notified that _______________________________ (describe
building) on the premises above mentioned has been determined to be an unsafe
building and a nuisance after inspection by ________________________________.
The causes for this decision are ________________________ (here insert the
facts as to the dangerous condition).
   “You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from
the date of receipt of this notice or the city will proceed to do so. Appeal of
this determination may be made to the City Council, acting as the Board of
Appeals, by filing with the City Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt
of this notice a request for a hearing.”
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon the orders
of the City Council, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
§ 150.33 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the City
Clerk request a hearing before the City Council, sitting as the Board of
Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The City Council shall grant such a hearing within ten days from
the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the City Council’s
decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified
mail.
   (B)   If the City Council rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60 days
from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If,
after the 60-day period, the owner has not begun work, the City Council shall
proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the property owner may appeal
the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during which
proceedings the decision of the City Council shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any city police officer or member of the City Council shall at once
inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.34 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the city
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.35 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If any owner of any building or structure fails, neglects, or refuses
to comply with notice by or on behalf of the city to repair, rehabilitate, or
demolish and remove a building or structure which is an unsafe building or
structure and a public nuisance, the city may proceed with the work specified
in the notice to the property owner. A statement of the cost of this work shall
be transmitted to the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council may:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located. Such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and shall be collected in the manner
provided for special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-1722)
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.50 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be the city official who shall have the
duty of enforcing all city building and housing regulations, if any.
      (1)   He or she shall inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built, or
moved in the city as often as necessary to ensure compliance with all city
ordinances.
      (2)   He or she shall have the power and authority to order, at the
direction of the City Council, all work stopped on any construction,
alteration, or relocation which violates any provisions prescribed in any city
building and housing regulations. He or she shall, at the direction of the City
Council, issue permission to continue any construction, alteration, or
relocation when the City Council is satisfied that no provision will be
violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a written
stop order within one hour. This written order may be served by any city police
officer.
   (B)   In the event that the city has building and housing regulations and
the Mayor fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the chief city law enforcement
officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 150.51 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair, or relocation is taking place for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.52 PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card, which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit, and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on
the principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.53 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or
his or her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or
structure and shall either approve that portion of the construction as
completed or shall notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work
fails to comply with the requirements of the city code:
      (1)   Foundation inspection shall be made after trenches are excavated
and the necessary forms erected;
      (2)   Frame inspection shall be made after the roof, framing, fire-
blocking, and backing is in place and all pipes, chimneys, and vents are
complete; and
      (3)   Final inspection shall be made after the building is completed and
ready for occupancy.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do work or cause work to be
done beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without the
written approval of the Building Inspector.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.54 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any city
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The City Council shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cite Code Section
Neb. RS Cite           Code Section
3-501 et seq.          35.53
9-201 et seq.          134.03
9-301 et seq.          134.03
9-401 et seq.          134.03
9-501 et seq.          134.03
9-601 et seq.          35.01;
                       134.03
9-701                  134.03
9-801 et seq.          134.03
9-1101 et seq.         134.03
10-101—10-143        35.12
10-606—10-612        35.12
Chapter 11, Article 1  32.41
11-101                 33.26
11-104                 33.25
11-105                 33.25
11-109                 33.25
11-110                 33.25
11-111                 33.25
11-112                 33.25
11-113                 33.25
11-114                 33.25
11-115                 33.25
11-116                 33.25
11-117                 33.25
11-118                 33.25
13-310                 92.036
13-311                 92.036
13-312                 92.036
13-313                 92.036
13-314                 92.036
13-403                 92.033
                       35.29;
13-501 et seq.         35.31;
                       35.34;
                       35.35
13-503                 35.01
13-504                 35.28
13-505                 35.28
13-506                 35.29
13-507                 35.29
13-508                 35.30;
                       35.56
13-509                 35.30;
                       35.55
13-509.01              35.27
13-509.02              35.27
13-510                 35.33
13-511                 35.34
                       35.29;
13-518—13-522        35.30;
                       35.34
13-519                 34.04
13-606                 35.02
13-609                 35.14
13-801 et seq.         32.42;
                       35.53
13-903                 35.05
13-1802                32.42
13-2501 et seq.        32.42;
                       35.53
13-3401 et seq.        35.55;
                       35.56
16-318(3)              31.05
16-691.01              35.11
16-714—16-716        35.10
17-102                 30.15
17-103                 30.15
17-104                 30.15
17-105                 33.04
17-106                 33.04
                       30.01;
                       30.03;
17-107                 31.01;
                       31.08;
                       32.43
17-108                 33.40
                       30.02;
17-108.02              30.15;
                       31.03
17-110                 30.02
17-111                 30.02
17-112                 30.02
17-113                 30.02
17-114                 30.02
17-117                 30.02
17-118                 32.42
17-119                 31.12
                       32.04;
17-121                 91.01;
                       91.02
17-129                 131.01
17-138                 93.06
                       131.02;
17-142                 131.03;
                       150.15
17-147                 32.20
17-148                 30.16
17-150                 31.13
17-501—17-560        31.10
17-503                 92.030
17-503.01              92.030
17-503.02              92.031
17-505                 10.99;
                       30.30
17-506                 35.50
17-507                 35.51
17-508                 92.066
17-509                 92.002
17-509—17-521        92.053
17-510—17-512        92.002
17-513—17-524        92.002
17-522                 92.053
17-524                 92.053
17-525                 110.01;
                       110.02
                       93.02;
                       93.08;
17-526                 93.45;
                       93.48;
                       93.49
17-538                 50.05
17-540                 35.11
17-541                 31.10
17-543                 31.10
17-547                 93.02;
                       93.08
17-548                 93.08;
                       93.09
                       91.18;
17-555                 92.004;
                       131.02—
                       131.04
17-556                 131.01;
                       133.55
                       92.005;
17-557                 92.077;
                       131.02;
                       131.03
17-557.01              92.005
17-558                 92.068;
                       92.069
17-559                 92.068;
                       92.069
17-563                 91.16;
                       91.19
17-567                 92.003;
                       92.065
17-568                 31.13
17-568.01              31.13;
                       35.03
17-568.02              35.03
17-602                 34.03
                       31.01;
17-604                 33.25;
                       33.40
17-605                 31.04
17-606                 31.05
17-606(2)              31.05
17-607                 35.09
17-608                 35.11
17-609                 35.11
17-610                 31.06
17-611                 33.40
17-612                 33.40
                       30.33;
17-613                 30.35—
                       30.37;
                       35.03
                       10.15;
17-614                 30.33;
                       30.34;
                       30.38
17-615                 30.36
17-616                 30.34
17-701                 35.25
17-702                 35.08;
                       35.54
17-703                 35.06
17-706                 35.31
17-708                 35.04
17-709                 35.04
17-710                 35.07
17-711                 35.04
17-714                 35.05
17-715                 35.05
17-718                 32.20
17-720                 35.10
17-801                 32.06
17-802                 32.06
17-802.01              32.06
17-803                 35.11
17-804                 31.10
17-805                 32.06
17-806                 32.06
17-807                 32.06
17-808                 32.06
17-810                 32.06
17-919                 31.13
17-920                 131.04
17-925.01              50.05
17-948                 90.01
17-948—17-952        90.01
17-949                 90.01
17-951                 90.01
17-952                 32.05;
                       90.01
17-953 et seq.         32.20
17-953                 92.032
17-953.01              92.032
17-954                 92.032
17-1001                91.16
17-1237 et seq.        35.11
17-1269 et seq.        35.11
18-131                 30.35
18-132                 30.30
18-305—18-312        33.41
18-412.01              35.03
18-503                 50.05
18-1001—18-1006      92.030
18-1208                110.01
18-1214                35.57
18-1216                35.06
18-1701                31.04
18-1705                92.066
                       10.99;
                       91.16;
18-1720                130.03;
                       133.02;
                       150.31
18-1722                10.99;
                       150.35
18-1722.01             150.32
18-1743                150.03
18-1748                92.072
18-1751                92.002
18-1752                91.20
18-1755                92.034
18-1756                35.03
18-1801—18-1805      35.12
18-2001—18-2004      92.067
18-2003                92.067
18-2005                92.066
18-2101 et seq.        35.53
18-2102.01             32.02
18-2715                32.02
                       32.06;
18-2801 et seq.        35.25;
                       35.28;
                       35.35
18-2803                35.35
18-2804                35.02;
                       35.35
18-2805                35.35
18-2806                35.35
18-2807                35.35
18-2808                35.35
18-3301                31.13
19-613                 30.15
19-710                 91.17
19-901 et seq.         32.02;
                       32.03
19-901                 32.03
19-901—19-914        32.03
19-901—19-915        32.03
19-903                 32.02
19-903—19-904.01     32.03
19-907                 32.03
19-908                 32.03
19-909                 32.03
19-910                 32.03
19-912                 32.03
19-912.01              32.03
19-915                 30.38
19-916                 32.02
19-922                 30.30
19-925—19-933        32.02
19-926                 32.02
19-927                 32.02
19-928                 32.02
19-929                 32.02
19-929(3)              32.03
19-930—19-933        32.02
19-1101                31.05
19-1102                31.04
19-1103                31.04;
                       31.05
19-1301                35.08
19-1302                35.08
19-1303                35.08
19-1304                35.08
19-1309                35.52
19-1310                35.52
19-1311                35.52
19-1312                35.52
19-2401                92.002
19-2408—19-2415      92.002
19-2416                92.066
19-2417—19-2419      92.053
19-2428—19-2431      92.002
19-2902                35.02
19-2903                35.02
19-2904                35.02
19-2905                35.02
19-2906—19-2909      35.02
19-3101                30.19
19-3301 et seq.        35.53
19-3701                30.37
20-203                 93.50
23-114.02              32.03
23-122                 31.04
25-505.01              34.10
25-1801                50.04
25-21,275              50.04
25-21,276              50.04
25-21,277              50.04
25-21,278              50.04
25-2703                30.30
28-109                 93.99
Chapter 28, Article 3  111.17
28-318                 134.01;
                       134.02
Chapter 28, Article 4  111.17
28-431                 133.40
28-515.02              50.03
28-519                 130.01
                       93.50;
28-520                 130.02;
                       130.99
                       93.50;
28-521                 130.02;
                       130.99
28-523                 90.02;
                       133.05
28-609                 132.01
28-610                 132.02
Chapter 28, Article 7  111.17
28-710 et seq.         134.01
Chapter 28, Article 8  111.17
28-801                 134.01
28-806                 134.02
28-830                 134.01
28-831                 134.01
28-833                 134.03
28-903                 132.03
28-904                 132.04
28-906                 132.05
28-907                 132.07
28-908                 132.06
Chapter 28, Article 10 111.17
28-1008                93.06;
                       93.50
28-1009                93.06
28-1012                93.06
28-1013                93.06
Chapter 28, Article 11 111.17
28-1101                134.03
28-1102                134.03
28-1103                134.03
28-1104                134.03
28-1107                134.03
28-1108                134.03
28-1109                134.03
28-1110                134.03
28-1111                134.03
28-1112                134.03
28-1113                134.03
28-1117                134.03
Chapter 28, Article 12 111.17
28-1202.03             111.47
28-1303                133.06
28-1304                133.03
                       91.16;
28-1321                130.03;
                       133.01
28-1322                131.05
28-1418                133.20
28-1418—28-1429.03   112.07
28-1419                133.21
28-1420                112.01
28-1420—28-1429      112.02;
                       112.07
28-1421                112.01
28-1422                112.02
28-1423                112.03;
                       112.07
28-1424                112.04
28-1425                112.04;
                       112.07
28-1426                112.05
28-1427                133.21;
                       133.22
28-1428                112.06
28-1429                112.04;
                       112.07
28-1429.04—28-1429.05112.07
28-1429.06             112.07
28-1429.07             112.07
28-1465                32.42
28-1466                32.42
28-1472                32.42
28-1601                134.03
29-215                 32.42
29-422—29-429        93.06
Chapter 29, Article 8  93.31
                       30.15;
                       34.01;
32-101 et seq.         34.04;
                       34.06;
                       35.08;
                       35.53
32-101—32-1551       30.01
32-109                 30.02;
                       30.15
32-110                 34.03
32-115                 34.03
32-404                 34.01;
                       34.05
32-405                 34.04;
                       34.10
32-533                 30.01;
                       30.15
32-552                 30.15
32-553                 30.15
32-554                 30.15
32-556                 34.01
32-557                 30.15;
                       34.06
32-559                 34.04
                       30.03;
32-560                 30.18;
                       30.19
32-560—32-572        30.03;
                       30.18
32-561                 30.03;
                       30.18
32-562                 34.10
32-564                 34.04;
                       34.07
32-567—32-570        34.10
32-568                 30.03;
                       30.18
32-569                 30.18
32-574                 34.10
32-603                 30.02;
                       30.15
32-604                 30.02;
                       30.15
32-606                 34.07
32-606.01              34.07;
                       34.10
32-607                 34.07
32-607(2)              34.07
32-608                 34.08
32-615                 34.09
32-616                 34.09
32-617                 34.09
32-618                 34.09
32-621                 34.09
32-622                 34.07
32-625                 34.07
32-625(2)              34.09
32-627                 34.07;
                       34.09
32-628                 34.09;
                       92.030
32-628—32-631        35.53
32-629                 34.09;
                       34.10
32-630                 34.09;
                       34.10
32-632                 34.10
32-710                 34.09
32-802                 34.02;
                       35.53
32-918                 34.11
32-952—32-959        34.04
32-1202                34.04
32-1301                34.10
32-1302                34.10
32-1303                34.10
32-1304                34.10
32-1305                34.10
32-1306                34.10
32-1307                34.10
                       30.03;
32-1308                30.18;
                       34.10
32-1309                34.10
32-1525                34.11
33-139.01              32.22
33-141                 31.05
35-102                 32.22
35-103                 32.22
35-106                 110.01
35-108                 32.22
37-1254.01             32.42
37-1254.02             32.42
39-301                 131.03
39-302                 131.03
39-307                 133.04
39-2512                31.12
43-245 et seq.         133.21;
                       134.01
43-248                 134.01
45-601 et seq.         35.13
45-623                 35.13
46-1212                92.035
48-101 et seq.         32.22
48-115                 32.22
48-1503                35.03
49-801(16)             10.05
49-1408                33.41
49-1425                33.41
49-1499.03—49-14,103 33.41
49-1499.04             33.41
49-14,102              33.41
49-14,103.01           33.41
49-14,103.02           33.41
49-14,103.03           33.41
49-14,103.04           33.41
49-14,103.05           33.41
49-14,103.06           33.41
51-201                 35.53;
                       90.15
51-201—51-219        32.01;
                       90.16
51-201.01              90.20
51-202                 32.01
51-204                 32.01
51-205                 90.16
51-206                 90.19
51-207                 90.16
51-209                 90.15
51-210                 90.17
                       90.16;
51-211                 90.20;
                       90.21
51-212                 90.20
51-213                 90.22
51-214                 90.23
51-215                 35.08;
                       90.24
51-216                 35.08;
                       90.18
51-501                 35.53
52-601.01—52-605     133.40
                       110.01;
                       111.03;
53-101 et seq.         111.15—
                       111.19;
                       111.22—
                       111.25
53-103                 133.24
53-103.01—53-103.51  111.01;
                       133.24
53-103.23              133.23
53-116.01              111.19
53-118                 111.42
53-123.04(3)           133.25
53-123.11(1)(c)        133.25
53-123.12              111.18
53-124                 111.18;
                       111.21
53-124.01              111.18
53-124.12              111.21
53-124.15              111.40
53-124.17              111.18
53-125                 111.17
53-129                 111.18
53-131                 111.18
53-132                 110.01;
                       111.18
53-133                 111.18;
                       111.40
53-134                 111.18
                       111.18;
53-134.03              111.42;
                       111.46
53-134.04              111.25
53-135                 111.20
53-135.01              111.18;
                       111.20
53-148                 111.22
53-160                 110.01
53-167.02              111.47
53-167.03              111.47
53-168.06              111.15
53-175                 111.16
53-177                 111.40
53-177.01              111.40
53-178                 111.41
53-179                 111.43
53-180                 111.02
53-180.01              133.23
53-180.02              133.24
53-180.05              133.23
53-183                 111.44
53-184                 111.45
53-186                 111.03
53-186(2)              111.03
53-186.01              111.03
53-194.03              111.16
53-1,101               111.23
53-1,102               111.24
53-1,115               111.25
53-1,121               111.04
53-401—53-409        133.24
54-601                 93.48
54-602                 93.48
54-603                 93.45
54-603(3)              93.45
54-605                 93.46
54-606                 93.48
54-607                 93.02
54-617                 93.50
54-618                 93.50
54-619                 93.50
54-620                 93.50
54-621                 93.50
54-622.01              93.50;
                       93.99
54-623                 93.50
54-907—54-912        93.07
54-911                 93.07
54-912                 93.07
55-133                 70.01
60-101 et seq.         35.57
60-169                 133.40
                       35.57;
60-301 et seq.         72.09;
                       133.40
60-376                 133.40;
                       133.41
60-3,104               35.57
60-462 et seq.         70.07
60-4,163               32.42
60-4,164               32.42
                       70.01;
                       70.03;
60-601 et seq.         70.05;
                       70.07—
                       70.10
60-606—60-676        70.01
60-607                 70.01
60-610                 70.01
60-613                 70.01
60-624                 70.01
60-631                 70.01
60-638                 70.01
60-646                 70.01
60-654                 70.01
60-656                 70.01
60-658.01              70.01
60-661                 70.01
60-669                 70.01
60-670                 70.01
60-671                 70.01
60-672                 70.01
60-676                 70.01
60-678                 70.02
60-680                 70.03;
                       72.01
60-681                 70.04
60-682                 70.99
60-682.01              71.99
60-683                 70.07
60-684—60-694.01     70.99
60-689                 70.99
60-6,108               70.05
60-6,110               70.08
60-6,114               70.10
60-6,118               70.01
60-6,119               70.09
60-6,121               70.06
60-6,129               71.03
60-6,130               71.04
60-6,138               71.01
60-6,148               71.02
60-6,164               72.02
60-6,165               72.31
60-6,166               72.03
60-6,167               72.12
60-6,168               72.14
60-6,185               71.20
60-6,186               71.21
60-6,187               71.21;
                       71.23
                       71.21;
60-6,188               71.23;
                       71.99
60-6,189               71.22
60-6,190               71.23
60-6,196               32.42
60-6,197               32.42
60-6,211.01            32.42
60-6,211.02            32.42
60-6,211.08            111.03;
                       133.25
60-6,250               71.05
60-6,288               71.05
60-6,288—60-6,290    70.10
60-6,294               70.10
60-6,305               71.21;
                       71.23
60-6,313               71.21;
                       71.23
60-1901                133.40
60-1902                133.40
60-1903                133.40
60-1903.01             133.40
60-1903.02             133.40
60-1904                133.40
60-1905                133.40
60-1906                133.40
60-1907                133.40
60-1908                133.40
60-1909                133.40
60-1911                133.40
60-2410                133.40
66-489                 110.01
66-489.02              110.01
66-4,140               110.01
66-4,145               110.01
66-4,146               110.01
70-624.04              33.41
70-1601                50.01
70-1601—70-1615      50.03
70-1602                50.02
70-1605                50.02
70-1606                50.02
70-1607                50.02
70-1608—17-1614      50.02
70-1615                50.02
70-2103                130.02
71-423                 111.04
71-1637                35.53
71-4401                93.25
71-4402                93.26
71-4404                93.26
71-4405                93.26
71-4406                93.27
71-4407                93.28
71-4408                93.08;
                       93.29
71-4410                93.31
71-4411                93.29
71-4412                93.31;
                       93.45
71-4603                133.40
Chapter 72, Article 14 92.032
73-101 et seq.         35.03
Chapter 75, Article 3  133.25
76-704—76-724        90.17
77-1601                35.55
77-1606                35.53
77-1632                35.55
77-1633                35.55;
                       35.56
77-1702                35.14
77-1725.01             150.33
77-2201                31.05
77-2201—77-2215      31.05
77-2202                31.05
77-2209                31.05
77-2210                31.05
77-2212                31.05
77-2337                35.08
77-2341                35.11
77-2362                35.09
77-2363                35.09
77-2364                35.09
77-2365.01             35.09;
                       35.10
77-2366                35.09;
                       35.10
77-2386 et seq.        35.09
77-23,109 et seq.      35.11
77-2602                110.01
77-2704.24             110.01
77-3011 et seq.        134.03
                       35.53;
77-3442                90.01;
                       90.15
77-3443                35.53;
                       90.15
77-3444                34.04;
                       35.53
77-4008                110.01
79-3401 et seq.        35.55;
                       35.56
80-202                 35.53
81-145—81-162        35.03
81-201                 93.06
81-501.01—81-531     32.26
81-506                 32.29
81-512                 32.26
81-520.01              91.35
81-542 et seq.         32.26
81-829.51              35.34
81-829.65              32.42
81-1438                31.08
81-1439—81-1446      31.08
81-1444                32.41
81-15, 117 et seq.     32.26
81-3423                92.035
81-3445                92.035
81-3449                92.035
81-3453                92.035
84-712—84-712.09     31.04;
                       31.05
84-712(2)              31.04
84-1201 et seq.        31.04
                       33.02;
84-1407 et seq.        33.08;
                       33.09;
                       35.56
84-1408                33.02
84-1409                33.01;
                       35.56
84-1410                33.07;
                       33.08
                       33.02;
84-1411                33.03;
                       33.05;
                       33.06
84-1411(8)             33.02
84-1412                33.09
84-1413                33.11;
                       33.13
86-704                 110.01
                       
 
TITLE XVII: LOCAL LEGISLATION
   Chapter
   ADOPTING ORDINANCE
      
170.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
171.   ADMINISTRATION
      
172.   PUBLIC WORKS
      
173.   TRAFFIC CODE
      
174.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
175.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
176.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
177.   LAND USAGE
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 558
   AN ORDINANCE to revise all the ordinances of the City of Weeping Water by
adopting the Nebraska Basic Code of Ordinances, 2007, to repeal prior
ordinances; to require filings; and to provide an effective date.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEEPING WATER, NEBRASKA:
   SECTION 1. The general ordinances of the City of Weeping Water, Nebraska,
hereby revised, codified, and printed in book form as a Code of Ordinances
through adoption of the Nebraska Basic Code of Ordinances for Cities of the
Second Class prepared by the League of Nebraska Municipalities, published by
American Legal Publishing Corporation, and composed of the following titles,
including any local legislation in Title XVII:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10. General Provisions
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30. Elected Officials; Ordinances
      31. Appointed City Official
      32. Departments, Boards, and Commissions
      33. General Provisions
      34. Elections
      35. Finance and Revenue
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50. General Provisions
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70. General Provisions
      71. Traffic Regulations
      72. Parking Regulations
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90. Leisure and Recreation
      91. Health and Safety
      92. Public Ways and Property
      93 Animals
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110. Business Licensing
      111. Alcoholic Beverages
      112. Tobacco and Cigarettes
      113. Sales and Advertising
TITLE XII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130. Property Offenses
      131. Offenses Against Public Order
      132. Offenses Against Public Justice and Administration
      133. Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
      134. Offenses Against Public Morals
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150. Building Regulations
TITLE XVII: LOCAL LEGISLATION
   SECTION 2.  The Code of Ordinances contains all of the provisions of a
general nature pertaining to the subjects enumerated and embraced in the Code
of Ordinances. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances are repealed, except that nothing shall affect any rights
acquired under, actions involving, or fines, penalties, forfeitures, or
liabilities incurred pursuant to such ordinances prior to repeal.
   SECTION 3. All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in the Code of Ordinances,
including ordinances specified in this section, shall remain in effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
   1.   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys, or other public
places.
   2.   Annexing or detaching territory.
   3.   Granting or accepting easements, plats, or dedication of land to public
use.
   4.   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property.
   5.   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made.
   6.   Levying taxes or special assessments.
   7.   Appropriating money.
   8.   Granting franchises or special licenses.
   9.   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
   SECTION 4.  All boards, commissions, councils, and other such bodies as
established in ordinances or resolutions adopted prior to the adoption of the
Code of Ordinances shall continue in existence and number of members unless
specifically amended in the Code of Ordinances or until an ordinance
abolishing, establishing, or otherwise changing such bodies is adopted or
amended. All fees and charges established in ordinances or resolutions adopted
prior to the adoption of the Code of Ordinances shall remain in effect unless
amended in the Code of Ordinances or until an ordinance adopting a schedule of
fees and charges is adopted or amended.
   SECTION 5.  At least one copy of the Code of Ordinances shall be on file in
the office of the City Clerk and available for inspection by members of the
public during the hours the office is open for the ordinary transaction of
business. The City Clerk shall file a copy of the Code of Ordinances with the
County Court.
   SECTION 6.  This ordinance shall take effect from and after it's passage,
approval, and publication according to law.
   PASSED AND APPROVED this 8th day of January, 2007.
                              CITY OF WEEPING WATER, NEBRASKA
                              BY: Howard Stubbendieck /s/
                                  Howard Stubbendieck, Mayor
ATTEST:
Kay Gerdes /s/
Kay Gerdes, City Clerk
CHAPTER 170: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
170.01   Corporate seal
§ 170.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the municipality shall be kept in the office
of the Municipal Clerk, and shall bear the following inscription, “City of
Weeping Water, Seal, Cass County, Nebraska.” The Municipal Clerk shall affix an
impression of the said official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits,
ordinances, and all other official papers issued by order of the Governing Body
and countersigned by the Municipal Clerk.
(‘84 Code, § 1-401)
CHAPTER 171: ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
171.01   Meetings of Governing Body
171.02   Sales and use tax
171.03   Compensation of Mayor and City Council members
Departments, Boards and Commissions
171.10   Pool and Park Board
171.11   Housing Authority Board
171.12   Fire Department; equipment; fire hydrants
171.13   Municipal Rescue Unit
Swimming Pool
171.20   Operation and funding
171.21   Rules and regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 171.01 MEETINGS OF GOVERNING BODY.
   The meetings of the Governing Body of the City of Weeping Water, Cass
County, Nebraska shall be held in the Council Chambers in City Hall. Regular
meetings shall be held on the second Monday of each month at the hour of 6:30
p.m.
(‘84 Code, § 1-510) (Am. Ord. 486, passed 12-8-97; Am. Ord. 639, passed 5-14-
18)
§ 171.02 SALES AND USE TAX.
   Pursuant to the approval of the electors of the City of Weeping Water, Cass
County, Nebraska, at the general election that was held on Tuesday, May 10,
2016, there is hereby adopted a sales and use tax which tax shall be 1.5% upon
the same transactions within the corporate limits of the city on which the
State of Nebraska is authorized to impose a tax pursuant to the provisions of
Nebraska law. Said sales and use tax shall commence on January 1, 2107 and
shall continue in perpetuity unless repealed.
(‘84 Code, § 1-824) (Ord. 542, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 627, passed 6-13-16)
§ 171.03 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Mayor of the City of Weeping Water shall be entitled to be paid
compensation at the rate of $150 per month. City Council members of the City of
Weeping Water shall be entitled to be paid compensation at the rate of $100 per
month. This compensation shall be paid in addition to the compensation that is
paid to the Mayor and City Council members when attending special meetings of
the City Council as set forth by ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 581, passed 1-12-09)
DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 171.10 POOL AND PARK BOARD.
   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, shall appoint the members
of the Pool and Park Board. The Board shall have 5 members who shall be
residents of the municipality. The Board members shall serve without
compensation and may be required, in the discretion of the Governing Body, to
give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the Governing Body, and conditioned
upon the faithful performance of their duties. The time of the Board’s first
meeting each year, the Board shall organize by selecting from its membership a
chairman and secretary. It shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings, and to file the same with the
Municipal Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time. All accounts against the swimming pool or municipal park of
the municipality shall be audited by the Pool and Park Board. The Board shall
present bills levied against the swimming pool and municipal park to the
Municipal Clerk who shall write checks on the proper fund in satisfaction
thereof. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The Board shall meet at such times as the Governing
Body may designate or as the Board may decide, in the absence of a specific
designation by the Governing Body. Special meetings may be held upon the call
of the chairman or any 2 members of the Board. It shall be the duty of the
Board to take the immediate charge of the expenditures for the equipment,
facilities, and activities involving the swimming pool and municipal park. The
Board shall make rules and regulations, with the approval of the Governing
Body, for the safe and efficient management of the swimming pool and the
municipal park. The Board shall report to the Governing Body its budget request
for the new fiscal year at the first regular meeting of the Governing Body in
June. The Board shall make an additional report at the Governing Body’s first
regular meeting in August of each year at which time to time the Board shall
provide such data relating to the swimming pool and municipal park as may be
necessary to inform the members of the Governing Body of the physical and
financial state thereof as of August first.
(‘84 Code, § 2-203)
§ 171.11 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The Governing Body shall appoint 5 persons who shall constitute the
Housing Authority and such persons shall be called the Commissioners. One
Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner shall serve a 5-
year term of office or until his successor is duly appointed; provided, that
all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. The Governing Body may
appoint one of its members to serve as one of the members of such Housing
Authority for such term as the Governing Body may determine. No person shall
serve as a Commissioner unless he or she resides within the area of operation
of such Housing Authority. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of
any Commissioner shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk and such certificate
shall be conclusive evidence of the proper appointment of such Commissioner. A
Commissioner shall receive no compensation for his services, but he shall be
entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in
discharge of his duties. A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum
of the Authority for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising its
powers, and for all other purposes. Action may be taken by the Authority upon
the vote of the majority of the Commissioners present unless in any case the
bylaws of the Authority shall require a larger number. The Commissioners shall
elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among the Commissioners and shall have
the power to employ an executive director who shall serve as ex officio
secretary of the Authority. The Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it
may call upon the chief law officer of the municipality, for such services as
it may require. It may employ technical experts and such other officers,
agents, and employees as it may require and shall determine their
qualifications, duties, compensations, and terms of office. The Authority may
delegate such other powers and duties to its agents or employees as it may deem
proper. During his tenure, and for 1 year thereafter, no Commissioner, officer,
or employee of the Municipal Housing Authority shall voluntarily acquire any
interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property included or
planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or proposed contract
relating to any housing project. If any such Commissioner, officer, or employee
involuntarily acquires any such interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily
acquired any such interest prior to appointment or employment as Commissioner,
officer, or employee, he shall immediately disclose his interest in writing to
the Authority, and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the
Authority, and he shall not participate in any action by the Authority relating
to the property or contract in which he has any such interest; provided, that
nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds
of the Authority issued in connection with any housing project, or to the
execution of agreements by banking institutions for deposit or handling of
funds in connection with a project or to act as trustee under any trust
indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are fixed or controlled
by a governmental agency. The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of
duty or misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor
shall send a notice of removal to such Commissioner which notice shall contain
a statement containing the charges against him. Unless within 10 days from the
receipt of such notice, such Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a
hearing before the Governing Body, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed
from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the Governing
Body of the Municipality shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall
have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the Governing Body shall
determine whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is
disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his position.
   (B)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the Governing Body on all such information.
(‘84 Code, § 2-206)
§ 171.12 FIRE DEPARTMENT; EQUIPMENT; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Fire equipment. It shall be unlawful for any person other than the
Fire Chief or members of the Fire Department to at any time molest or handle
the fire apparatus of the municipality. No person other than a duly authorized
member of the municipal utility departments or the Fire Department shall open
the fire hydrants of the municipality.
(‘84 Code, § 3-211)
   (B)   Fire hydrants. It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to flush
all fire hydrants of the municipality at least 2 times each year at such times
as the Fire Department may determine would be most beneficial to the
municipality.
(‘84 Code, § 3-212)
Cross reference:
   Fire department, see §§ 32.35 - 32.44
§ 171.13 MUNICIPAL RESCUE UNIT.
   The Municipal Rescue Unit shall be operated by and as a part of the Fire
Department. It shall be unlawful for any other person than a duly authorized
member of the Fire Department to handle or operate the said unit without
written permission from the Governing Body. The Governing Body may each year,
for the purpose of defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance
of the Municipal Rescue Unit, levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
Fire Department shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
efficient management of the Rescue Unit subject to the supervision and review
of the Governing Body. The Governing Body shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by resolution and shall file a copy of such rates in the
office of the Municipal Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(‘84 Code, § 3-601)
SWIMMING POOL
§ 171.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and manages the municipal swimming pool. The Governing
Body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the management, maintenance, and
improvements of the swimming pool may each year levy a tax not exceeding the
maximum limit prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real
estate and personal property within the municipality that is subject to
taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as the Swimming Pool
Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance, bequests, or
other valuable income-producing personal property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the swimming pool. The Swimming Pool Fund
shall at all times be in the custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Pool and
Park Board shall manage the swimming pool and bills accrued by the swimming
pool shall be presented by the Board to the Municipal Treasurer for payment.
The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise the Swimming
Pool Manager and such employees as they may deem necessary and shall pass such
rules and regulations for the operation of the swimming pool as may be proper
for its efficient operation. All actions by the Board shall be under the
supervision and control of the Governing Body.
(‘84 Code, § 3-101)
§ 171.21 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Pool and Park Board shall have the power and authority to enact by-laws,
rules, and regulations for the protection of those using the swimming pool and
for the efficient management thereof. They may provide suitable penalties for
the violation of such by-laws, rules, and regulations subject to the review and
supervision of the Governing Body.
(‘84 Code, § 3-102)
CHAPTER 172: PUBLIC WORKS
Section
General Provisions
172.01   Water regulations adopted by reference
172.02   Backflow regulations adopted by reference
172.03   Sewer regulations adopted by reference
172.04   Fluoride prohibited
Garbage
172.10   Definitions
172.11   Unlawful disposal in watercourse
172.12   Collection
Solid Waste
172.20   Definitions
172.21   Collection and disposal
172.22   Mandatory service
172.23   Hazardous waste or waste requiring special handling
172.24   Additional regulations
172.25   Service charges; delinquency; collection
172.26   Nuisance; abatement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 172.01 WATER REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Regulations of the Water Department as set forth in Chapter 3, Article 8 of
the 1984 Weeping Water Municipal Code are adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein. Such regulations are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk
and available for public inspection during normal business hours.
§ 172.02 BACKFLOW REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Backflow/backsiphonage prevention regulations set forth in Ordinance 407 are
adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein. Such regulations are on file
in the office of the Municipal Clerk and available for public inspection during
normal business hours.
(‘84 Code, §§ 3-820 - 3-833) (Ord. 407, passed 7-10-89)
§ 172.03 SEWER REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Regulations of the Sewer Department as set forth in Chapter 3, Article 9 of
the 1984 Weeping Water Municipal Code are adopted by reference as if fully set
forth herein. Such regulations are on file in the office of the Municipal Clerk
and available for public inspection during normal business hours.
§ 172.04 FLUORIDE PROHIBITED.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the City of Weeping
Water.
(Ord. 579, passed 12-8-08)
GARBAGE
§ 172.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals, or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
   RUBBISH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead trees,
branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags, or
any other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of the
residents of the municipality.
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust, or sand.
(‘84 Code, §§ 4-301, 4-302, 4-303)
§ 172.11 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL IN WATERCOURSE.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to throw garbage or
trash of any nature into any drainage ditch or watercourse that is within the
municipality.
(‘84 Code, § 4-305)
§ 172.12 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Authority. The Governing Body for the city may provide for the
collection and removal of garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within
its corporate roads, or alleys abutting such lot or land which constitutes a
public nuisance. The city may require the owner, duly authorized agent, or
tenant of such lot or land to remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or
land and streets, roads, or alleys.
   (B)   Notice; removal. Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary
shall be given to each owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant
if any. Such notice shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail.
After providing such notice, the city through its proper offices shall, in
addition to other proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to
be removed, from such lot or land and streets, roads, or alleys.
   (C)   Nuisance. If the Mayor/City Manager declares that the accumulation of
such garbage or refuse upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance
and hazard to public health and safety, the city shall remove the garbage or
refuse, or cause it to be removed, from such lot or land within 48 hours after
notice by personal service or following receipt of a certified letter in
accordance with division (A) above if such garbage or refuse has not been
removed.
   (D)   Lien. Whenever a city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to
be removed, from any lot or land pursuant to this subchapter, it shall, after a
hearing conducted by the governing board, assess the cost of the removal
against such lot or land.
(‘84 Code, § 4-307, 4-308, 4-309) (Ord. 403, passed 10-10-88)
SOLID WASTE
§ 172.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attend the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit, or vegetable.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste designated or defined as a hazardous waste by
N.A.C. Title 128 - Rules and Regulations Governing Hazardous Waste Management
in Nebraska, which for purposes of general definition is a solid waste which,
because of quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause, or significantly contribute to, an increase in mortality or
an increase in serious, irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or
otherwise managed.
   HOME-BASED BUSINESS. A business, profession, service, or trade conducted for
gain or support whereby the central office is located within a residential
building in which the owner owns, rents, leases, or occupies.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
and includes garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, industrial wastes, and other such wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, glass, bedding, crockery, or litter of any kind that will be a detriment
to the public health and safety.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, or sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility and other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous
material resulting from industrial, commercial, and mining operations, and from
community activities.
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(‘84 Code, § 4-310)
§ 172.21 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   The municipality shall provide or contract for the collection and disposal
of nonhazardous solid waste from residential, commercial, institutional, and
governmental premises within its solid waste jurisdiction area. Such wastes
shall be collected on a regularly scheduled basis and shall be disposed of only
in a licensed landfill facility approved by the Governing Body and which meets
all state and federal criteria. The Governing Body shall approve and is
authorized to contract with any such licensed landfill facility for these
purposes.
(‘84 Code, § 4-311) (Ord. 475, passed 1-13-97)
§ 172.22 MANDATORY SERVICE.
   (A)   Every occupied residence and every commercial, institutional, multiple
residence, apartment, hotel, motel, and governmental building or premises in
which day-to-day activities are conducted within the municipal solid waste
jurisdiction area shall be served by the solid waste collection and disposal
service system offered by the municipality and shall be subject to the
assessment and payment of charges for such service as set from time to time by
the Governing Body. The municipality may also agree to provide such service to
persons who do not live within the corporate limits of the municipality but who
are served of the municipality as to make such service economical and practical
for the municipality and the hauler or haulers providing service.
(‘84 Code, § 4-312) (Ord. 475, passed 1-13-97)
   (B)   The fee for mandatory solid waste disposal shall be billed monthly.
The monthly fee for residential single-family dwellings shall be $25.50 per
month for a 96 gallon cart. The monthly fee for a residential single-family
dwelling shall be $24.50 per month for a 68 gallon cart. Senior citizens shall
be defined as residents who are 65 years or older, and shall be assessed a
monthly fee of $21.50 per month, which shall include a cart size of choice. If
a household requests a second cart, an additional charge of $2.00 per month
will be assessed. Commercial rates for commercial customers and the owners of
multi-family residential units shall be established based upon the services
required and shall be assessed and determined by the city upon negotiation with
the property owner and shall include a rate increase of 20% that will vary
based upon the container size, frequency of service, and weight of contents.
(‘84 Code, § 4-317) (Ord. 475, passed 1-13-97; Am. Ord. 521, passed 7-9-01; Am.
Ord. 563, passed 9-10-07; Am. Ord. 575, passed 7-14-08; Am. Ord. 629, passed 9-
8-16; Am. Ord. 645, passed 6-10-19)
§ 172.23 HAZARDOUS WASTE OR WASTE REQUIRING SPECIAL HANDLING.
   Any person, firm, or corporation within the municipal solid waste
jurisdiction area who generates or creates hazardous waste or waste requiring
special handling or disposal shall be responsible for the transportation and
disposal of the same. All such handling and disposal shall in all respects
comply with state and federal laws and regulations pertaining to the specific
type of waste generated.
(‘84 Code, § 4-313) (Ord. 475, passed 1-13-97)
§ 172.24 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The Governing Body may, from time to time, make and adopt by ordinance such
additional rules and regulations governing the use, operation, and control of
the solid waste collection and disposal system and the regulation of solid
waste within the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area as it may deem
necessary to promote the efficient operation and management of the system and
to protect the environment and the health, safety, and welfare of all persons
within the municipal solid waste jurisdiction area.
(‘84 Code, § 4-314) (Ord. 475, passed 1-13-97)
§ 172.25 SERVICE CHARGES; DELINQUENCY; COLLECTION.
   If the charges for solid waste collection and disposal service established
pursuant to this code are not paid when due, such sum may be recovered by the
municipality in a civil action or, following notice by regular United States
mail to the last-known address of the property owner of record and an
opportunity for a hearing, may be certified by the Governing Body to the County
Treasurer and assessed against the premises served and collected or returned in
the same manner as other taxes are certified, assessed, collected, and
returned.
(‘84 Code, § 4-315) (Ord. 475, passed 1-13-97)
§ 172.26 NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful, and declared to be a nuisance, for any person to keep
in, on, or about any dwelling, building, or premise, or any other place within
the municipal solid waste jurisdiction, decayed vegetable or animal substance,
garbage, or refuse matter of any kind that may be injurious to the public
health or offensive to the residents of the municipality unless the same is
kept in receptacles as nearly air-tight as may be practical. It shall be
unlawful, and declared to be a nuisance, to throw or sweep into the streets,
alleys, parks, or other public grounds any dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass,
garbage, refuse, or rubbish of any kind. No person shall permit garbage,
refuse, or rubbish to collect and all persons shall remove the same within 24
hours after being notified to do so by the Police Chief or his representative
who shall represent the Board of Health. Any person having garbage, refuse, or
rubbish that is subject to decay or fermentation within a short period of time
shall be required to place the same in a standard garbage can with a tight
cover, or a durable plastic container that is securely tied at its opening.
(‘84 Code, § 4-316) (Ord. 475, passed 1-13-97)
CHAPTER 173: TRAFFIC CODE
Section
General Provisions
173.01   Turning generally
173.02   U turns
173.03   Right-of-way
173.04   Overtaking vehicles
173.05   Position of vehicle on highway
173.06   Backing
173.07   Driving in sidewalk space
173.08   Signs; traffic-control devices; traffic surveillance devices
173.09   Parking; maximum time limit
173.10   Speed; maximum
173.11   Engine brakes
173.12   Reckless driving
173.13   Careless driving
173.14   Negligent driving
173.15   Exhibition driving
173.16   Obstruction to vision at intersections
173.17   Utility terrain vehicles
173.18   All-terrain vehicles
173.19   Golf car vehicles
Snow Emergency Routes
173.20   Designation
173.21   Parking prohibition
173.22   Removal of vehicles
173.23   Conflicting provisions
173.24   Snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance
Minibikes and Miniature Unpowered Vehicles
173.30   Unlawful operation
173.31   Traffic laws inapplicable
173.32   Miniature unpowered vehicles prohibited
Railroad Crossings
173.40   Safe crossing
173.41   Obstructing traffic
173.42   Lighting
173.43   Warning
173.44   Automatic crossing signals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 173.01 TURNING GENERALLY.
   Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting street shall approach
such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the right hand side of the
highway and must turn the corner as near the right hand curb as possible to
keep between the curb to the right and the center of the intersection of the 2
streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left shall approach
such center line of the highway, and in turning shall pass as near as possible
to the center of the intersection, passing as closely as practicable to the
right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left. For the purposes of this
section, the center of the intersection shall mean the meeting point of the
medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(‘84 Code, § 5-203)
§ 173.02 U TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction at any
street intersection which the Governing Body has determined to disallow such an
operation. No vehicle shall cross from one side of the street to another,
except at a street intersection.
(‘84 Code, § 5-202)
§ 173.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   When 2 vehicles approach, or enter an intersection at approximately the same
time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle on the right when the paths of such vehicles intersect and there is
danger of a collision, unless otherwise directed by a municipal policeman
stationed at the intersection. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the
left within an intersection, or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an
immediate hazard. The driver of a vehicle on any street shall yield the right-
of-way to a pedestrian crossing such street within any clearly marked
crosswalk, or at any regular pedestrian crossing at the end of a block where
the movement of traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic
direction devices. Every pedestrian crossing a street at any point other than a
pedestrian crossing, crosswalk, or intersection shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles upon the street. The driver of a vehicle entering a municipal street
from a private road, or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on such streets. The driver of a vehicle upon a street shall yield
the right-of-way to authorized emergency vehicles when the latter are operated
upon official business and the drivers thereof sound audible signal by bell,
siren or whistle.
(‘84 Code, § 5-204)
§ 173.04 OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
approaching from the rear shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle.
(‘84 Code, § 5-205)
§ 173.05 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Upon all highways of sufficient width, one-way streets excepted, the
driver of a vehicle shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In
passing or meeting other vehicles, drivers shall give each other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway.
(‘84 Code, § 5-206)
   (B)   A vehicle shall not be driven to the left of the center line of the
highway in overtaking or passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and free from oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance to permit such overtaking and passing to be
made in safety.
(‘84 Code, § 5-207)
§ 173.06 BACKING.
   Before backing, ample warning shall be given and while backing, unceasing
vigilance must be exercised not to injure those behind. The driver of a parked
vehicle about to back shall give moving vehicles the right-of-way.
(‘84 Code, § 5-208)
§ 173.07 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No vehicle shall be driven within any sidewalk space, except a permanent or
temporary driveway.
(‘84 Code, § 5-209)
§ 173.08 SIGNS, TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; TRAFFIC SURVEILLANCE DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously deface,
injure, remove, obstruct, knock down or interfere with any official traffic
sign or signal, traffic-control device, or traffic control surveillance device.
(‘84 Code, § 5-212) (Ord. 412, passed 2-12-90)
§ 173.09 PARKING; MAXIMUM TIME LIMIT.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street in the residential zoning
district for over 72 consecutive hours or in any other zoning district for over
24 consecutive hours is unlawful.
(‘84 Code, § 5-416)
§ 173.10 SPEED; MAXIMUM.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or other place
within the corporate limits at a rate of speed greater than 25 miles per hour
unless a greater rate of speed is specifically permitted by ordinance. The
following have been designated as areas in which a different maximum speed
limit shall apply:
   (A)   In the business district: 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   On Eldora Avenue from Garfield to the East corporate limits: 30 miles
per hour.
(‘84 Code, § 5-608)
§ 173.11 ENGINE BRAKES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city limits of the city
to make or cause to be made loud or disturbing noises with any mechanical
device operated by compressed air and used for purposes of assisting braking on
any semi-tractor; provided, however, it shall be permitted to use engine brakes
in an emergency situation. Proper notices shall be posted by the city notifying
the public of such prohibition.
   (B)   Any person or individual who shall violate the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
of not less than $100 or more than $200 for each offense.
(‘84 Code, § 5-622) (Ord. 540, passed 8-9-04)
§ 173.12 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate an
indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of reckless driving, and as such shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(‘84 Code, § 5-611)
§ 173.13 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(‘84 Code, § 5-617)
§ 173.14 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in a negligent and imprudent manner,
without due regard for road and traffic conditions or the safety of persons or
property shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(‘84 Code, § 5-618)
§ 173.15 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   Any person who drives a motor vehicle on the streets and alleys within the
limits of the municipality, or upon property owned by the municipality, in such
manner as to cause or create unnecessary engine noise, squealing of tires,
rearing, skidding, sliding, or swaying of such motor vehicle, shall be guilty
of exhibition driving and therefore, be subject to penalty provisions provided
in the traffic code.
(‘84 Code, § 5-619) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 173.16 OBSTRUCTION TO VISION AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   In all areas of the city, except the central business district, on a
corner lot, within the area formed by the center line of streets at a distance
of 60 feet from their intersections, there shall be no obstruction to vision
between a height of 2½ feet and a height of 10 feet above the grades of the
bottom of the curb of the intersecting streets, measured from the point of
intersection of the centerline of the streets. The requirements of this section
shall not be deemed to prohibit any necessary retaining wall.
   (B)   Whenever any obstruction to vision at street intersections exists
contrary to the provisions herein so as to interfere with the convenience of
the public using said street, the Governing Body at any regular or special
meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or occupant to cut or remove
said obstructions within 5 days after receiving a copy therefrom from the city
stating the municipality will remove said obstructions and charge the costs
thereof to the owner or occupant as a special assessment for improvements as
herein provided, if said resolution is not complied with.
(‘84 Code, § 8-315) (Ord. 549, passed 10-10-05)
§ 173.17 UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV). 
         (a)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
            1.   Is not less than 48 inches or more than 74 inches in width;
            2.   Is not more than 135 inches, including the bumper, in length;
            3.   Has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds nor more than
2,000 pounds;
            4.   Travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and
            5.   Is equipped with a steering wheel or bench and bucket or
bucket-type seating designated for at least two people to sit side-by-side.
         (b)   Utility terrain vehicle (UTV) does not include golf carts.
   (B)   Operation. A utility terrain vehicle (UTV) may be operated on the
streets and highways within the corporate limits of the city only if the
operator and vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   A utility terrain vehicle (UTV) may be operated in the city when such
operation occurs between the hours of sunrise and sunset. Any utility terrain
vehicle (UTV) operating within corporate limits shall have the city
registration number displayed prominently. The person operating the UTV shall
have a valid Class O operator's license and shall be 18 years of age or older.
The operation of such UTV shall be at a speed not in excess of 30 miles per
hour. When operating the UTV, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall
be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which
extends not less than five feet above ground attached to the rear of such
vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of
not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color. An operator of a
UTV shall have liability insurance coverage for the operation of such UTV and
shall provide proof of insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting such
proof.
   (D)   A utility terrain vehicle (UTV) may be operated without complying with
division (C) above on streets and highways in parades that have been authorized
by the City of Weeping Water or the State of Nebraska or any department, board,
commission, or political subdivision of the state.
   (E)   Registration.  In order to be authorized for operation on the streets
and highways of the city a utility terrain vehicle (UTV) must be registered in
the office of the City Clerk. A registration sticker will be issued upon
submitting proof of the following:
      (1)   Proof of liability insurance coverage for the utility terrain
vehicle while operating such vehicle on a street or highway.
      (2)   A $25 annual fee for registration of the vehicle. The registration
sticker shall entitle the utility terrain vehicle to be operated on the streets
and highways of the city from January 1 in any year to December 31 of the same
year and shall be renewable annually. The annual fee shall not be pro-rated. A
registration sticker shall be displayed on the left lower corner of the
windshield of such vehicle, or if the vehicle is not equipped with a
windshield, at the left front of such vehicle.
      (3)   Upon compliance with the registration requirements identified
herein, the City Clerk shall issue a registration sticker for the utility
terrain vehicle (UTV) being registered. Said registration sticker shall be
prominently displayed upon said vehicle at all times while such vehicle is in
operation on the streets and highways of the city.
   (F)   No person shall operate a utility terrain vehicle (UTV) on the streets
or highways of the city in violation of the Nebraska Rules of the Road as
established by the Revised Statutes of the State of Nebraska.
   (G)   A person who is found to be in violation of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $100 for the first offense. For
a second offense in any 12-month period, the fine shall be $200 and a
revocation of the utility terrain vehicle (UTV) registration. For each
continued offense, the fine shall increase $50 for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 582, passed 1-12-09; Am. Ord. 604, passed 9-10-12)
§ 173.18 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV).  
         (a)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
            1.   Is 50 inches or less in width;
            2.   Has a dry weight of 900 pounds or less;
            3.   Travels on three or more low-pressure tires;
            4.   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger;
            5.   Has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator;
and
            6.   Has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering
control.
         (b)   All-terrain vehicle (ATV) shall not include golf carts.
   (B)   Operation.
      (1)   An all-terrain vehicle (ATV) may be operated on the streets and
highways within the corporate limits of the city only if the operator and
vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   No person shall:
         (a)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle with a
cutout, by-pass, or similar device;
         (b)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with an exhaust system so
modified; or
         (c)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle with the spark arrestor removed
or modified except for use in closed-course competition events.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle (ATV) may be operated in the city when such
operation occurs between the hours of sunrise and sunset. Any all-terrain
vehicle (ATV) operating within corporate limits shall have the city
registration number displayed prominently. The person operating the ATV shall
have a valid Class O operator's license and shall be 18 years of age or older.
The operation of such ATV shall be at a speed not in excess of 30 miles per
hour. When operating the ATV, the headlight and taillight of the vehicle shall
be on and the vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which
extends not less than five feet above ground attached to the rear of such
vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of
not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color. An operator of
an ATV shall have liability insurance coverage for the operation of such ATV
and shall provide proof of insurance coverage to any peace officer requesting
such proof.
   (D)   An all-terrain vehicle (ATV) may be operated without complying with
division (C) above on streets and highways in parades that have been authorized
by the City of Weeping Water or the State of Nebraska or any department, board,
commission, or political subdivision of the state.
   (E)   Registration. In order to be authorized for operation on the streets
and highways of the city, an all-terrain vehicle (ATV) must be registered in
the office of the City Clerk. A registration sticker will be issued upon
submitting proof of the following:
      (1)   Proof of liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle
while operating such vehicle on a street or highway.
      (2)   A $25 annual fee for registration of the vehicle. The registration
sticker shall entitle the all-terrain vehicle to be operated on the streets and
highways of the city from January 1 in any year to December 31 of the same year
and shall be renewable annually. The annual fee shall not be pro-rated. A
registration sticker shall be displayed on the left lower corner of the
windshield of such vehicle, or if the vehicle is not equipped with a
windshield, at the left front of such vehicle.
      (3)   Upon compliance with the registration requirements identified
herein, the City Clerk shall issue a registration sticker for the all-terrain
vehicle (ATV) being registered. Said registration sticker shall be prominently
displayed upon said vehicle at all times while such vehicle is in operation on
the streets and highways of the city.
   (F)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle (ATV) on the streets or
highways of the city in violation of the Nebraska Rules of the Road as
established by the Revised Statutes of the State of Nebraska.
   (G)   A person who is found to be in violation of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $100 for the first offense. For
a second offense in any 12-month period, the fine shall be $200 and a
revocation of the all-terrain vehicle (ATV) registration. For each continued
offense, the fine shall increase $50 for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 607, passed 11-12-12)
§ 173.19 GOLF CAR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this chapter, GOLF CAR VEHICLE means a
vehicle that has at least 4 wheels, has a maximum level ground speed of less
than 20 miles per hour, has a maximum payload capacity of 1,200 pounds, has a
maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds, has a maximum passenger capacity
of not more than 4 persons, is designed and manufactured for operation on a
golf course for sporting and recreational purposes, and is not being operated
within the boundaries of a golf course.
   (B)   Operation. A golf car vehicle may be operated on the streets and
highways within the corporate limits of the city only if the operator and
vehicle comply with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   A golf car vehicle may be operated in the city when such operation
occurs between the hours of sunrise and sunset. Any golf car vehicle operating
within corporate limits shall have the city registration number displayed
prominently. The person operating the golf car vehicle shall have a valid Class
O operator's license and shall be 18 years of age or older. That the operation
of such golf car vehicle shall be at a speed not in excess of 20 miles per
hour. A golf car vehicle shall not be operated at any time on any state or
federal highway but may be operated upon such highway in order to cross a
portion of the highway system which intersects a road. An operator of a golf
cart vehicle shall have liability insurance coverage for the operation of such
golf car vehicle and shall provide proof of insurance coverage to any peace
officer requesting such proof. The liability insurance coverage shall be
subject to limits, exclusive of interest and costs, as follows: $25,000 because
of bodily injury to or death of 1 person in any accident and, subject to such
limit for 1 person, $50,000 dollars because of bodily injury or death to 2 or
more persons in any one accident, and $25,000 because of injury to or
destruction of property of others in any one accident.
   (D)   A golf car vehicle may be operated without complying with division (C)
above on streets and highways in parades that have been authorized by the city
or any department, board, commission, or political subdivision of the state.
   (E)   Registration. In order to be authorized for operation on the streets
and highways of the city a golf cart vehicle must be registered in the office
of the City Clerk. A registration sticker will be issued upon submitting proof
of the following:
      (1)   Proof of liability insurance coverage for the all-terrain vehicle
while operating such vehicle on a street or highway;
      (2)   $25 annual fee for registration of the vehicle. The registration
sticker shall entitle the all-terrain vehicle to be operated on the streets and
highways of the city from January 1 in any year to December 31 of the same year
and shall be renewable annually. The annual fee shall not be pro-rated. A
registration sticker shall be displayed on the left lower comer of the
windshield of such vehicle, or if the vehicle is not equipped with a
windshield, at the left front of such vehicle.
      (3)   Upon compliance with the registration requirements identified
herein, the City Clerk shall issue a registration sticker for the golf car
vehicle being registered. Said registration sticker shall be prominently
displayed upon said vehicle at all times while such vehicle is in operation on
the streets and highways of the city.
   (F)   No person shall operate a golf car vehicle on the streets or highways
of the city in violation of the Nebraska Rules of the Road as established by
the Revised Statutes of the State of Nebraska.
   (G)   A person who is found to be in violation of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $100 for the first offense. For
a second offense in any 12-month period, the fine shall be $200 and a
revocation of the all-terrain vehicle (ATV) registration. For each continued
offense, the fine shall increase $50 for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 626, passed 5-9-16)
SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
§ 173.20 DESIGNATION.
   The following described streets are hereby declared to be snow emergency
routes in the city. The Mayor or his designated representative, shall, at his
discretion, place appropriate signs or other traffic- control devices
indicating the existence of such snow emergency routes. A designation of any
street, avenue, road, or highway, or portion thereof as a snow emergency route
shall in no way affect any previous designation of that street, avenue, road or
highway for any other purposes. The snow emergency routes are as follows:
   (A)   East Street from Eldora Avenue south to the city limits;
   (B)   North Commercial Street from “H” Street to “D” Street;
   (C)   “D” Street to 144th Street;
   (D)   Eldora Avenue from Randolph Street to Garfield Street; and
   (E)   All along the designated truck route.
(‘84 Code, § 5-420) (Ord. 460, passed 1-8-96)
22F   Weeping Water - Local Legislation
§ 173.21 PARKING PROHIBITION.
   The parking of vehicles on snow emergency routes shall be prohibited at all
times when there is accumulated snow, falling snow, sleet or freezing rain on
the public streets of the city between the dates of October 1 and May 1 of
every year.
(‘84 Code, § 5-421) (Ord. 460, passed 1-8-96)
§ 173.22 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Mayor or his designated representative or members of the Cass
County Sheriff’s Office are hereby authorized to remove or have removed a
vehicle from a street identified herein as a designated snow route to another
place or location when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a snow emergency route on which a parking
prohibition is in effect due to accumulated snow, falling snow, sleet or
freezing rain;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled or stuck on a snow emergency route on which
there is a parking prohibition in effect and the person who is operating said
vehicle does not appear to be removing it;
      (3)   The vehicle is parked on any street in violation of any parking
prohibition or provision of law contained in this subchapter and is interfering
or about to interfere with snow removal operation.
   (B)   Members of the Cass County Sheriff’s Office or Mayor or city employee
designated by the Mayor may cause such vehicle to be removed to a private lot,
garage, storage yard or other similar facility; and any such vehicle shall not
be released therefrom except upon payment by the owner of the vehicle to the
person or persons in charge of the lot, garage, storage yard or other similar
facility for the reasonable cost of towing, and the reasonable cost of storage
during which time the vehicle remains stored, and a receipt for such fees shall
be issued to the owner of the vehicle.
(‘84 Code, § 5-422) (Ord. 460, passed 1-8-96)
§ 173.23 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   Any provision of this subchapter which becomes effective by reason of
accumulated snow, falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain takes precedence over
other conflicting provisions of law normally in effect, except that it shall
not take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents,
emergency travel of authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency traffic
directions by a police officer.
(‘84 Code, § 5-423) (Ord. 460, passed 1-8-96)
§ 173.24 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE.
   Section 72.11 of the Nebraska Basic Code of Ordinances for Cities of the
Second Class, regarding snow; weather emergencies; highway maintenance, shall
be amended to read in its entirety:
   (A)   The parking of any vehicle on the public streets of the City of
Weeping Water shall be prohibited at any time within 12 hours after a snowfall
of 3 inches or more has occurred within a 24-hour period, if the snow has not
been removed within that time.
   (B)   A parked vehicle in violation of this section may be removed and
parked, under the supervision of the city police or any other designated
person, to a suitable nearby location without further notice to the owner or
operator of such vehicle. The removal of any motor vehicle under this section
shall be at the expense of the owner of said motor vehicle and the cost of the
removal of said motor vehicle shall be paid in addition to any fine that may be
assessed pursuant to a violation of any provision of this section.
   (C)   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
traffic violation. Any person who is found guilty of violating this section
shall be found guilty of a traffic infraction and shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   Not more than $100 for the first offense;
      (2)   Not more than $200 for the second offense within a 1-year period;
      (3)   Not more than $300 for a third and subsequent offense within a 1-
year period.
(Ord. 589, passed 3-8-10)
MINIBIKES AND MINIATURE UNPOWERED VEHICLES
§ 173.30 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the municipality. For purposes of this
subchapter, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total
wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine rated capacity of
less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or any other two-wheel motor
vehicle primarily designed by the manufacturer for off-road use only.
(‘84 Code, § 5-501)
§ 173.31 TRAFFIC LAWS INAPPLICABLE.
   Minibikes, their owners, and their operators shall be exempt from the
requirements of Neb. RS Chapter 60, Articles 3, 4, and 5.
(‘84 Code, § 5-502)
§ 173.32 MINIATURE UNPOWERED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any skateboard, scooter or other miniature
unpowered vehicle to be operated by a person on any street, highway, alley or
sidewalk in the Business District of the City of Weeping Water. The Business
District shall be defined as the north and south sides of Eldora Avenue from
the intersection of Eldora Avenue and East Street on the east and Eldora Avenue
and Commercial Street on the west.
   (B)   In the event of a conviction of any violation of this section,
judgment may include the impoundment of the skateboard, scooter or other
miniature unpowered vehicle involved in such violation by the City Police for a
period not to exceed 180 days, and the operator may be ordered not to operate
any skateboard, scooter or other miniature vehicle within the city for a period
not to exceed 30 days.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum of not more than $500.
(Ord. 566, passed 11-12-07)
RAILROAD CROSSINGS
§ 173.40 SAFE CROSSING.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the municipality to keep in a suitable, and safe condition
the crossings and right-of-way in the municipality.
If any such crossing shall at any time fall into disrepair and become unsafe,
or inconvenient for public travel, the Governing Body may, by resolution, call
upon the said company to make whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to
correct the dangerous condition. Notice of the said resolution shall be served
upon the local agent of the said company. In the event that the railroad shall
fail, or neglect to repair, and correct the said condition as aforesaid within
30 hours, neglect for each 24 hours thereafter shall be deemed, and is hereby
made a separate, and distinct offense against the provisions herein.
(‘84 Code, § 10-403)
§ 173.41 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents, or
servants operating a railroad through the municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than 5 minutes.
(‘84 Code, § 10-404)
§ 173.42 LIGHTING.
   Railroad companies doing business within the municipality shall keep all
platforms and crossings well lighted and shall immediately comply with any
order made by the Governing Body to provide additional lighting, within the
time prescribed on the notice.
(‘84 Code, § 10-405)
§ 173.43 WARNING.
   All trains passing through the municipality shall continuously, with a horn
or otherwise, signal their intention of moving through the corporate limits.
(‘84 Code, § 10-406)
§ 173.44 AUTOMATIC CROSSING SIGNALS.
   When ordered by the Governing Body, automatic lights and signals shall be
installed at such crossings as may be designated by the Governing Body within
the time prescribed on the notice.
(‘84 Code, § 10-407)
CHAPTER 174: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Health and Sanitation
174.01   Rodents and insects
Pollution
174.10   Air pollution
174.11   Water pollution
Explosives
174.20   Storage registration
174.21   Bullets
174.22   Blasting permits
174.23   Transportation
Dogs and Cats
174.30   Cats; applicability of regulations
174.31   Interference with police
174.32   Killing and poisoning
174.33   Barking and offensive dogs
174.34   Violations; citation
174.35   Kennels
174.36   Impoundment fees
174.37   Dangerous dogs
174.38   License
Sidewalks
174.40   Overhanging branches
174.41   Requirement to keep clean
174.42   Removal of snow, ice and other substances
Abandoned Motor Vehicles
174.50   Definitions
174.51   Prohibited storage and abandonment
174.52   Specific exceptions
174.53   Removal by city
174.54   Sheriff’s office or City Inspector duties
174.55   Disposition
Fire Prevention
174.60   Open burning; waiver
Chickens
174.70   Keeping of domestic laying hens
Nuisance Properties
174.80   Generally defined
174.81   Specifically defined
174.82   Abatement
174.83   Failure to correct
 
174.99   Penalty
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 174.01 RODENTS AND INSECTS.
   (A)   Extermination. It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, or occupant
of any dwelling or building to be responsible for the active and continued
extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests therein, or on the
premise. In the event that the owner, lessee, or occupant of any said dwelling
or building neglects, fails, or otherwise refuses to control and actively
exterminate the insects, rodents, and other pests in and about his premise, the
Board of Health shall issue notice for him to do so. If the said owner, lessee,
or occupant has not made a good faith effort to exterminate the said pests
within 5 days, the premise shall be deemed to be a nuisance and a health
hazard.
   (B)   Responsibility of occupant. It shall be the responsibility of the
occupant in a single dwelling unit whether or not the dwelling unit is located
in a multiple unit structure to exterminate the rodents and insects infesting
the premise when it is found by the Board of Health that only the occupant’s
dwelling is so infested.
   (C)   Responsibility of owner. The owner of a multiple dwelling unit shall
have the duty to exterminate therein for rodents and insects when infestation
exists in 2 or more units, when infestation exists in shared or public areas of
a multiple unit structure when the infestation is due to failure by the owner
to maintain the dwelling in an insect and rodent proof condition. The owner of
a single dwelling unit shall have the duty to exterminate therein
notwithstanding the occupancy of a renter or lessee when the infestation of
insects or rodents is due to the said owner’s failure to construct or maintain
the premise in such a manner as to make it reasonably resistant to the entrance
and habitability of such pests.
(‘84 Code, §§ 4-501, 4-502, 4-503)
POLLUTION
§ 174.10 AIR POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit the
emission of smoke from any source that is injurious or offensive to the
residents of the municipality in the judgment of the Board of Health. Air shall
be considered to be polluted when the discharge into the open air of dust,
fumes, gases, mist, odors, smoke, or any combination thereof is of such
character and in a quantity which to any group of persons interferes with their
health, repose, or safety, or causes severe annoyance or discomfort or is
offensive and objectionable to normal persons and causes injury to real and
personalproperty of any kind. The standards for air pollution established or
adopted by the State of Nebraska, shall be presumptive evidence as to when the
air is deemed to be polluted under this section. It is hereby unlawful for any
such person, firm, or corporation to permit or cause the escape of the
aforesaid nuisances and the escape of the said dust, fumes, gases, mists,
odors, and smoke is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be summarily
abated upon written notice by the Board of Health to the violator. Such
abatement may be in addition to the penalty for air pollution in the
municipality.
(‘84 Code, § 4-405)
§ 174.11 WATER POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obstruct or
impede without legal authority any river or collection of water, or to corrupt
and render unwholesome or impure any watercourse, stream, or other water. The
standards for water quality established or adopted by the State of Nebraska
shall be presumptive evidence as to when the water is deemed to be polluted
under this section. Such a corruption of the water in or about the municipality
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be summarily abated upon written notice
to the violator by the Board of Health. The said abatement may be in addition
to the penalty for water pollution.
(‘84 Code, § 4-406)
EXPLOSIVES
§ 174.20 STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   In addition to notifying the Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 28-
1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time explosive
materials as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, shall register such information with
the Municipal Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage. The transfer of explosive
materials to another person within the municipality shall require the person
receiving the explosive materials to register the transfer and the new location
of the explosive materials with the Municipal Clerk. The transfer of explosive
materials to a new location by the owner shall require registration of the new
location with the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   All explosive materials shall be stored in a proper receptacle made of
cement, metal, or stone and be closed at all times, except when in actual use.
Such receptacles shall not be located in any room where there are flames or
flammable materials. The area surrounding storage facilities shall be kept
clear of rubbish, brush, dry grass, or trees not less than 25 feet in all
directions. Any other combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not
less than 50 feet from outdoor storage facilities.
(‘84 Code, § 7-301) (Am. Ord. 441, passed 5-9-94)
§ 174.21 BULLETS.
   Cartridges, shells, and percussion caps shall be kept in their original
containers away from flame, flammable materials, and high explosives.
(‘84 Code, § 7-302)
§ 174.22 BLASTING PERMITS.
   In addition to notifying the Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1233(3),
any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as defined in Neb. RS 28-
1213, within the municipality shall apply for and secure a permit from the
governing body 24 hours prior to such discharge, and shall discharge such
explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the permit.
In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless operating under
the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid user’s permit
issued by the Nebraska State Patrol.
(‘84 Code, § 7-303) (Am. Ord. 442, passed 5-9-94)
§ 174.23 TRANSPORTATION.
   Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the municipality shall
first acquire a permit from the municipal police and shall take such
precautions and use such route as he may prescribe. Nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to the municipal police, or any of the Armed Services of the
United States. No vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled
stop for longer than 5 minutes within the municipality and in the event of
mechanical failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the
Police Chief who shall then prescribe such precautions as may be necessary to
protect the residents of the municipality and a reasonable time for removal of
the vehicle from the municipality.
(‘84 Code, § 7-304)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 174.30 CATS; APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions set out in
Chapter 93 dealing with dogs are hereby made applicable to cats.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any cat
which shall annoy or disturb any neighborhood, or person. Upon the written
complaint of 2 or more affected persons from different households, filed within
any 30-day period with the Municipal Clerk, that any cat owned by the person
named in the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates
the provisions of this section, the Humane Officer or municipal police shall
investigate the complaint and, if in their opinion the situation warrants,
shall notify the owner to restrain such cat. The provisions of this section
shall not be construed to apply to the Municipal Animal Shelter.
(‘84 Code, § 6-112)
   (C)   Section
93.02 of the Nebraska Basic Code of Ordinances for Cities of the Second Class,
regarding running at large; tethering, shall be amended to read in its
entirety:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, cat, chicken, turkey, goose, or any other animal to permit
the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and property
or the property of another in the city or to be tethered or staked out in such
a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way or
property or any property of another.
      (2)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit anyone to own
an animal in the corporate limits of the city that is prohibited by the City
Council.
(Ord. 591, passed 7-12-10)
§ 174.31 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with the
Humane Officer or municipal policeman who is performing any duty enjoined upon
him by the provisions of this subchapter, or to break open, or in any manner
directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open of the animal
shelter, any ambulance wagon, or other vehicle used for the collecting or
conveying of dogs to the shelter.
(‘84 Code, § 6-109)
§ 174.32 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, or to administer, or cause to be administered,
poison of any sort to a dog or cat, or in any manner to injure, maim, or
destroy, or in any manner attempt to injure, maim, or destroy any dog or cat
that is the property of another person, or to place any poison, or poisoned
food where the same is accessible to a dog or cat; provided, that this section
shall not apply to the Humane Officer or municipal policemen acting within
their power and duty.
(‘84 Code, § 6-110)
§ 174.33 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or yelping shall annoy or
disturb any neighborhood, or person, or which habitually barks at or chases
pedestrians, drivers, or owners of horses or vehicles while they are on any
public sidewalks, streets, or alleys in the municipality. Upon the written
complaint of 2 or more affected persons from different households, filed within
any 30-day period with the Municipal Clerk, that any dog owned by the person
named in the complaint is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates
the provisions of this section, the Humane Officer or municipal police shall
investigate the complaint and, if in their opinion the situation warrants,
shall notify the owner to silence and restrain such dog. The provisions of this
section shall not be construed to apply to the Municipal Animal Shelter.
(‘84 Code, § 6-111)
§ 174.34 VIOLATIONS; CITATION.
   (A)   Whenever any person is alleged to have violated any of the provisions
of this subchapter, he may execute a waiver of appearance and plea of guilty by
signing, completing and complying with the cited item or items on a waiver form
provided by the governing body of the municipality. At the time of such waiver
and plea of guilty, he must pay the fine hereinafter set forth for the
violation or violations charged, in order to avail himself of the benefits
herein provided. For each violation charged, if the violation is a first
offense, he shall pay a fine of $10; if such violation is a second offense, he
shall pay a fine of $25; if such violation is a third offense, and for all
subsequent violations, he shall pay a fine of $50. All fines shall be paid to
the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   At the time of the commission of the alleged violation, the accused
may be served with a printed notice allowing him to avail himself of the
provisions of this section within the period of time before the date specified
thereon, and in the event that he chooses not to avail himself of the benefits
hereof, he shall be prosecuted for violation of a misdemeanor, and assessed a
fine in accordance with the schedule as set forth in this section, and the
court costs.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk shall retain as part of her records the copy of
the notice given to the violator and presented at the time the benefits of this
section are accepted, and she shall from said notices prepare a report showing
the number of the notice, the name of the violator, the date of the offense and
the amount of the fine collected by her. All fines shall be paid by the
Municipal Clerk to the Municipal Treasurer, which shall become part of the
general fund of the municipality.
(‘84 Code, § 6-120)
§ 174.35 KENNELS.
   (A)   To enable the owner of any kennel to have the same licensed under the
provisions of this subchapter, such owner shall present an application to the
Municipal Clerk, together with a certificate or other information showing
compliance with all laws and regulations pertaining to dog kennels from the
Nebraska Humane Society.
   (B)   No kennel shall be maintained nor shall a license be issued to a
kennel that creates a nuisance in the immediate neighborhood through noise,
odor, or unsanitary conditions. Upon written complaint of 2 or more affected
persons from different households, filed within any 30-day period with the
Municipal Clerk that any kennel has excessive noise, odor, or ordinance
violation, said complaint may result in loss of the owners license or
impoundment or penalty as otherwise provided by this code.
   (C)   Upon satisfaction by the Municipal Clerk that the application of any
perspective kennel owner has complied with the terms of this section, the
Municipal Clerk shall issue a kennel license to said applicant upon the payment
of an annual fee of $25. Said fee shall be paid by the applicant at the time
said application is made to the Municipal Clerk and is renewable on May 1 of
every year provided that said owner is in compliance with all laws and
regulations pertaining to dog kennels.
('84 Code, § 6-121) (Am. Ord. 616, passed 5-12-14)
§ 174.36 IMPOUNDMENT FEES.
   Any dog or cat may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of
impoundment by the payment of a daily board fee in the sum of $20 per day. Said
fee shall be due for any fraction of any day that any dog or cat has been
impounded by the city. For any dog or cat that is reclaimed by its owner during
the first day of its impoundment, a pick-up fee in the sum of $20 shall be paid
by its owner.
(Res. 05-3, passed 2-14-05)
§ 174.37 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the city.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or
ordinance relating to the licensing of animals, or seizure and impoundment of
animals and includes any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose
duties in whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and
impoundment of any animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that without justification attacks a person or
domestic animal causing physical injury or death, or behaves in a manner that a
reasonable person would believe poses an unjustified imminent threat of serious
injury or death to 1 or more persons or domestic animals.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision
or department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
   (B)   Dangerous dogs; declared nuisance. Dangerous dogs are hereby declared
to be a nuisance and nuisances are to be abated as provided in § 91.21 of the
Weeping Water Municipal Code.
   (C)   Dangerous dogs; immediate impoundment. Any dangerous dog may be
immediately impounded by the animal control officer for a violation of this
section, subject to the following procedure:
      (1)   The owner of the dangerous dog who has been immediately impounded
shall be notified of the impoundment by certified mail within 5 business days
after the dangerous dog's impoundment.
      (2)   The notice of impoundment shall inform the owner of the dangerous
dog that he/she may request, in writing, to the City Clerk, a hearing before
the City Council to contest the impoundment within 5 business days after the
mailing of the notice of impoundment.
      (3)   Upon request by the owner of the dangerous dog for a hearing, a
hearing shall be held within 10 business days after such request is received by
the City Clerk. Notice of the date, time and location of the hearing shall be
provided by certified mail to the owner of the dangerous dog requesting the
hearing.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (1), (2), and (3)
above, if a dangerous dog attacks or bites a person or another domestic animal
or is allowed to run at large, the dangerous dog shall be immediately impounded
by an animal control officer, placed in quarantine for the proper length of
time, and thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
      (5)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall be responsible for the
reasonable costs incurred by the animal control officer for the care of a
dangerous dog impounded by an animal control officer or for the destruction of
any dangerous dog if the action by the animal control officer is pursuant to
law and if the owner violated any section of this section. In the event the
dangerous dog cannot safely and humanely be confiscated, or if it is necessary
for self-defense or the physical defense of others, the animal control officer
may use sufficient force, including summarily destroying the dangerous dog, to
safely carry out his or her duties.
   (D)   No person shall interfere with, hinder, or molest any agent of the
animal control authority in the performance of any duty as herein provided. Any
person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be subject to a fine of not less than $100 or more than $500.
(Ord. 568, passed 1-14-08)
§ 174.38 LICENSE.
   Section 93.40(A) of the Nebraska Basic Code of Ordinances for Cities of the
Second Class, regarding license and tax required; exemption; tags, shall be
amended to read in its entirety:
   (A)   Any owner of a dog or cat over the age of 6 months within the city
shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the dog or cat, acquire a license
for the dog or cat annually by or before May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be
issued by the City Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount of $8.
(Ord. 590, passed 5-10-10; Am. Ord. 632, passed 11-14-16)
SIDEWALKS
§ 174.40 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece, or parcel of ground abutting or
adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extends the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least 15 feet above the surface of said street and 8 feet above
the surface of said sidewalk. Whenever the limbs or branches of any tree or
trees extend over streets or sidewalks contrary to the provisions herein so as
to interfere with the lighting of the street from street lights, or with the
convenience of the public using said street or sidewalk, the governing body at
any regular or special meeting may pass a resolution ordering the owner or
occupant to cut or remove said obstructions within 5 days after having received
a copy thereof from the Street Commissioner stating that the municipality will
remove said branches and charge the costs thereof to the owner or occupant as a
special assessment for improvements as herein provided, if said resolution is
not complied with.
(‘84 Code, § 8-202) (Am. Ord. 471, passed 8-12-96; Am. Ord. 550, passed 10-10-
05)
Cross reference:
   Overhanging branches, see § 92.06
§ 174.41 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to permit any snow, sleet, ice,
mud or other substance to remain on the sidewalks.
(Ord. 609, passed 3-11-13)
§ 174.42 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   All sidewalks within the business district shall be cleaned within 5
hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the storm or fall of snow shall
have taken place during the night, in which case the sidewalk shall be cleaned
before 9:00 a.m. the following day. Sidewalks within the residential areas of
the city shall be cleaned within 12 hours of the cessation of the storm.
   (B)   Notice to remove snow, mud, ice, sleet, or other substance shall be
made upon the owner of the premises in any reasonable manner, said notice to
demand the removal of said substance forthwith. If the person owning such
premises is unknown or cannot be found, or if any reasonable service cannot be
made upon such owner, agent or occupant within the city, then such service of
said notice shall be made by posting a copy thereof in some conspicuous place
on the premises; and in case the owner or occupant shall fail to remove the
snow, sleet, mud, ice or other substance, then it shall be the duty of the city
to remove such substance and the expense thereof shall be charged against the
property and the owner thereof, and may be recovered by proper action in the
name of the city or be chargeable against the property as a special assessment
for improvements.
(Neb. RS 16-207, 16-663) (Ord. 609, passed 3-11-13)
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 174.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED or UNATTENDED.
      (1)   Located on public property without numbered plates attached;
      (2)   Located on public property for more than 24 hours unless otherwise
legally permitted;
      (3)   For more than 7 days on private property if left initially without
the owner’s permission or after the permission has terminated, with this
provision in no way limiting the owner of the property from taking any lawful
private action to remove the motor vehicle from the property.
   HARD SURFACE. A paved surface consisting of either concrete or asphalt
sufficient to withstand the weight of the motor vehicle; or an area filled with
gravel, rock, or similar material which is contained by landscape timbers,
retaining wall blocks, or similar materials which will retain the fill material
and which is maintained and kept free of weeds and other growth and which is
maintained so that the fill material does not enter the street.
   INTERESTED PARTY. An owner of the vehicle as demonstrated either by the last
registration, a certificate of title, or a bill of sale; the resident of
property where the vehicle is located; or the owner of the property where the
vehicle is stored.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Motor vehicles as defined by state law; boats, campers, and
trailers in excess of 15 feet in length or 10 feet in height; machinery; or the
parts of scraps of any of these same motor vehicles.
   PARK. An operable motor vehicle which is used for transportation or
otherwise on a regular or periodic basis so that it does not remain on any
driveway or any surface which is not a hard surface, on any lot zoned
residential for more than 7 days without being operated on the public streets.
(Ord. 556, passed 8-7-06)
§ 174.51 PROHIBITED STORAGE AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful, and it is declared by the Mayor and City Council to be
a nuisance, for any person to park, store or abandon any motor vehicle on
public or private property, in whole or in part, which is within the city’s
zoning jurisdiction, unless an exception expressly provided by this subchapter,
when:
      (1)   The motor vehicle does not have a properly issued and current motor
vehicle registration and vehicle license plate properly displayed;
      (2)   The motor vehicle is in violation of this code, state law, or
federal law;
      (3)   Storing, keeping or abandoning motor vehicles, except as allowed by
this subchapter; or
      (4)   Parking, storing, or keeping inoperable motor vehicles on any lot
zoned as residential.
   (B)   No motor vehicle may be stored or abandoned in the front yard of lots
zoned residential, except that motor vehicles may be stored in the front yard
of lots zoned residential so long as they are stored on a hard surface. No
motor vehicle may be stored or abandoned in the side or rear yards of any lots
zoned residential.
   (C)   It is unlawful to abandon or leave unattended a motor vehicle or cause
it to be abandoned or unattended.
(Ord. 556, passed 8-7-06) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.52 SPECIFIC EXCEPTIONS.
(A)   It is not a violation of this subchapter if the motor vehicle stored is
in an enclosed building or garage or otherwise authorized by the city’s zoning
regulations.
(B)   It is permissible to park, although not to store, motor vehicles on
residential lots on driveways which are not otherwise hard surfaced.
(Ord. 556, passed 8-7-06) Penalty, see §
174.99
§ 174.53 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   Whenever the city determines that any vehicle poses an imminent danger to
the public health, safety, or welfare, the city may have the vehicle removed at
the expense of 1 or more of the interested parties.
(Ord. 556, passed 8-7-06)
§ 174.54 SHERIFF’S OFFICE OR CITY INSPECTOR DUTIES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, the Sheriff’s office shall determine the
last registered owner and any lien holder of all abandoned or unattended motor
vehicles not moved within 72 hours following notice as follows:
      (1)   If numbered plates are attached, inquiry is made to the
jurisdiction which issued the plates.
      (2)   If numbered plates are not attached, inquiry is made to the
Nebraska Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s office or City Inspector shall give notice to the last
registered owner that the vehicle in question has been recovered as abandoned
and that, if unclaimed, it will be sold at public auction at any time after 5
days. If a lien or mortgage exists, the Sheriff’s office shall notify the lien
holder. Any person claiming an abandoned vehicle shall pay the cost of its
removal and storage. Notice shall be sent by personal service or certified
mail.
   (C)   Before the city removes a vehicle which is in violation of this
subchapter, the city will give interested parties 72 hours’ notice by either
tagging the motor vehicle or sending notice by regular mail to interested
parties. Any motor vehicle not removed within this 72-hour period may be
removed by the city. An interested party may choose to demonstrate that the
motor vehicle is operable by making special arrangements with the City
Inspector or Sheriff’s office to demonstrate that the motor vehicle is operable
so long as this is completed within a 72-hour period.
   (D)   The city may remove any motor vehicle stored in violation of this
subchapter. All towing, storage, and other costs of removal are at 1 or more of
the interested parties’ expense. All interested parties are jointly and
severally liable. In addition, the city, upon certifying the same to the County
Treasurer, shall have a lien against the property in the full amount of the
removal costs together with interest at the highest legal rate that the city is
authorized by law to collect on special assessments.
   (E)   Neither the State of Nebraska nor the city is liable for any loss or
damage to the vehicle which occurs during removal while in the city’s
possession, or as a result of any subsequent disposition.
   (F)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the city 5
days from the date notice is delivered to the interested parties.
(Ord. 556, passed 8-7-06) Penalty, see § 174.99
§ 174.55 DISPOSITION.
   (A)   If an abandoned or unattended vehicle, when abandoned or unattended,
has no numbered plate of the current license year affixed or no valid
registration, and has a wholesale value, considering the vehicle’s condition,
of $100 or less, title shall immediately vest in the city.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s office shall have the authority to sell at public sale
all vehicles after the title vests in the city.
   (C)   Impounding motor vehicles which violate this subchapter is allowed in
addition to other provisions. Nothing in this section supercedes any provisions
concerning parking or operating motor vehicles and the collection of a fee
under this subchapter shall not prevent or preclude prosecution for the
violation of any of the provisions of this title concerning the parking or
operation of vehicles in the city.
(Ord. 556, passed 8-7-06)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 174.60 OPEN BURNING; WAIVER.
   Section 91.30 of the Nebraska Basic Code of Ordinances for Cities of the
Second Class, regarding open burning; waiver, shall be amended to read in its
entirety:
   (A) There shall be an open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor rubbish
fires, and fires for the purpose of clearing land. The open burning ban shall
not apply to the recreational use of fire pits in private residences or at the
City Campground.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive an open burning ban
under division (A) of this section for an area under his or her jurisdiction by
issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting permission to conduct
open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his or her designee to a
person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in writing, signed by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee, and on a form provided by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and regulations listing
the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct open burning under
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   The Fire Department may charge a fee not to exceed $10 for each such
permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the City Council for inclusion in
the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. These funds shall not
reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee shall be
collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a permit is
issued to conduct open burning under division (B) of this section in the course
of that state's or political subdivision's official duties.
(Ord. 595, passed 10-11-10)
CHICKENS
§ 174.70 DOMESTIC LAYING HENS.
   (A)   Domestic laying hens (chickens) are hereby allowed within the
corporate limits of the City of Weeping Water. This section applies to laying
hens only and specifically excludes roosters.
   (B)   A maximum of 4 laying hens shall be allowed.
   (C)   All chickens shall be kept securely enclosed in a pen at all times and
shall not be allowed to run at large. That said pen/enclosure shall be no less
than 25 feet from any residence and shall be no less than 15 feet from any lot
line. That said pen/enclosure shall conform to the zoning laws of the city.
   (D)   All enclosures for the confinement of chickens within the corporate
limits shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace
or nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located. A violation
of this section shall result in a penalty under §
10.99, the general penalty provision of the City of Weeping Water Code.
   (E)   Every person or entity desiring to have chickens on their premises
shall file with the City Clerk a written application stating the name of the
person or entity for whom the license is desired and the exact location of the
place of the enclosure for said chickens. A written drawing of the enclosure
for the chickens as well as a drawing of the dimensions of the lot showing the
setback requirements, as set forth above, shall accompany the license
application. An annual license fee in the sum of $25 shall accompany each
application. The term for which a license shall run shall be from the date of
filing the application and paying the license fee to and including December 31
of the calendar year in which application for the license is made. If
application for license is made after July 1 of any calendar year, the fee
shall be one-half of the fee provided in this section. All license fees shall
be due and payable on the first day of each year. If the license fee is not
paid by the owner of the chickens, said license fee shall be added to the
monthly water bill of the property owner until paid.
(Ord. 623, passed 4-13-15)
NUISANCE PROPERTIES
§ 174.80 GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street or
highway in the city;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720) (Ord. 635, passed 10-9-17)
§ 174.81 SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be nuisances within both the corporate limits of the city or
within its zoning jurisdiction.
   (A)   Erecting, using, or maintaining a dangerous building or structure.
   (B)   Allowing stagnant water to stand on a lot or piece of ground.
   (C)   Allowing a lot or piece of ground adjoining a street or alley to have
excessive growth of weeds or worthless vegetation.
      (1)   Weeds include, but are not limited to, bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), puncture vine (Tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula),
Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (Lepidium draba),
Russian knapweed (Centaurea picris), Johnson grass (Sorghum halepense), nodding
or musk thistle, quack grass (Agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (Solanum carolinense), bull thistle (Cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (Rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (Cannabis sativa),
and ragweed (Ambrosiaceae).
   (D)   Allowing a lot or piece of ground adjoining a street or alley to have
grass growing in excess of 12 inches in height.
   (E)   Throwing, depositing, or accumulating litter on any lot or piece of
ground.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, litter includes, but is not limited
to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags, and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick, or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves, and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility, or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling, or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded, or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage, or junk.
(Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720) (Ord. 635, passed 10-9-17)
§ 174.82 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a law enforcement officer or a code enforcement officer
determines that a nuisance is maintained within the city or its zoning
jurisdiction, the officer shall cause written notice to be served upon the
owner and any resident of the property on which such nuisance is located, by
registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. Such notice
shall state the specific type of nuisance located on the property and shall
provide that such nuisance shall be abated or removed within five business days
following receipt of the notice.
   (B)   When notice is given by first-class mail, the same shall be
conspicuously marked on “Violation.”
   (C)   Within five days after receipt of such notice, the owner or occupant
of the lot or piece of ground may request a hearing with the city to appeal the
decision to abate or remove a nuisance by filing a written appeal with the
office of the City Clerk or Village Clerk. Said hearing shall be held by the
quarantine officer, within 14 days after the filing of the appeal. The hearing
officer shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days after
the conclusion of the hearing.
   (D)   If (a) the appeal fails, or (b) no appeal is requested and the
property owner or occupant fails to abate the nuisance within five days after
receipt of such notice, the city may have such work done and thereafter bill
the costs and expenses of any such work to the owner. If the bill to the owner
remains unpaid for two months after billing for the work that was done, the
city may either (a) levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the
lot or piece of ground so benefitted as a special assessment or (b) recover the
same in a civil action.
(Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720) (Ord. 635, passed 10-9-17)
§ 174.83 FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   If the owner or occupant of said premises fails to correct and eliminate
said nuisance pursuant to the notice, he/she shall be guilty of a Class V
misdemeanor. Each day's violation after the expiration of the five days notice
shall be a separate offense.
(Neb. RS 17-563, 18-1720, 28-1321) (Ord. 635, passed 10-9-17)
§ 174.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of §§
174.50 et seq. shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in a sum of
not more than $500.
(Ord. 556, passed 8-7-06)
CHAPTER 175: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
Occupation Taxes
175.01   Levy
175.02   Collection
Alcoholic Beverages
175.10   Hours of sale
Sales and Advertising
175.20   Peddlers and hawkers prohibited
Bingo
175.30   Regulation
175.31   Incorporation of state law
Franchises
175.40   Natural gas
175.41   Telephone
175.42   Electricity
175.43   Cable television
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 175.01 LEVY.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
      Retailer of beer, on sale only (Class A)   $50
      Retailer of beer, off sale only (Class B)   $50
      Retailer of alcoholic liquor (beer, wine, distilled spirits), on and off
sale (Class C)   $250
      Retailer of alcoholic liquor (beer, wine, distilled spirits), off sale
only (Class D)   $150
      Retailer of alcoholic liquor (beer, wine, distilled spirits), on sale
only (Class I)   $150
      Special designated liquor license   $25
      Fire insurance companies   $10 per year
      Railroad company   $50 per year
      Telephone company   $50 per year
      Electric service company   $50 per year
      Natural gas company   $50 per year
      Fireworks vendors   $25 per year
      Peddler fees   $25 per year
(‘84 Code, § 10-601) (Am. Ord. 552, passed 4-10-06)
§ 175.02 COLLECTION.
   All occupation taxes shall be due, and payable on the first day of May of
each year, except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the
payment thereof by any person or persons to the Municipal Clerk, the said Clerk
shall give a receipt, properly dated, and specifying the person paying the said
tax, and the amount paid. The revenue collected shall then be immediately
deposited into the general fund by the Municipal Treasurer. The Municipal
Treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him. All
forms, and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy
shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(‘84 Code, § 10-603)
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 175.10 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be lawful for any licensed liquor establishment in the
city to sell any alcoholic beverage on Sunday.
      (2)   The following days shall be designated as holidays for the purpose
of this section:
         (a)   New Years Eve.
         (b)   New Years Day.
         (c)   Super Bowl Sunday.
         (d)   Fourth of July.
         (e)   Christmas Eve.
         (f)   Christmas Day.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be lawful for any licensed retail liquor establishment
in the city to sell at retail any alcoholic beverage on any election day.
      (2)   Alcoholic liquors, including beer and wine, may be sold at retail
within the city, both off sale and on sale from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the
following day.
(‘84 Code, § 10-317) (Am. Ord. 383, passed 9-8-86; Am. Ord. 431, passed 6-14-
93; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-8-96; Am. Ord. 477, passed 5-12-97; Am. Ord. 630,
passed 9-12-16)
SALES AND ADVERTISING
§ 175.20 PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   To protect the public by preventing the sale of fraudulent, dangerous,
and unhealthy goods and services, it shall be unlawful for any solicitor,
salesman, peddler, or hawker to sell or attempt to sell at retail any
merchandise, magazines, books, or other items of value, or attempt to take
orders or subscriptions for the same within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not extend to any person selling
produce raised within the county, to individuals calling on retail merchants in
the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of taking orders or selling of
merchandise for resale by such merchants, or to residential route salespersons.
Nor shall these provisions be applicable to local nonprofit organizations. This
section shall also not pertain to nor apply to persons canvassing residents
within the city for religious, political, or non-commercial purposes.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in a sum of not more than $500.
(‘84 Code, § 10-102) (Ord. 554, passed 7-10-06)
BINGO
§ 175.30 REGULATION.
   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the municipality in accordance with
all laws of the municipality and the State of Nebraska if the said game of
bingo is played for or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed
by the State of Nebraska to conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written
permit from the governing body before commencing operation of said game.
Application shall be made to the Municipal Clerk for such permit. Said
application form shall contain such informationand documents or copies thereof
as the governing body deems necessary to determine whether to grant or reject
the application. Upon the determination that granting the application would be
proper, the governing body shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk to
issue the said license to the applicant upon the payment of an annual permit
fee of $10. Said license shall be subject to revocation at any time for good
cause. Any person or persons, so licensed, shall be subject to any other fees,
rules, and regulations which the governing body may designate. All permits so
issued will automatically expire on March 31, following its issuance or
renewal. The fee for each renewal unless otherwise prescribed shall be in the
sum of $10. Said fee shall be credited to the general fund. The permit shall be
on display at any place where a game of bingo is conducted.
(‘84 Code, § 10-211)
§ 175.31 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   All applicable state statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be, and will constitute, a part of this subchapter as if repeated
verbatim herein, and violation of any state statute will be a distinct and
separate offense against the municipality as well as against the state.
Violators thereof shall be separately prosecuted by the municipality for each
of such offenses, and if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(‘84 Code, § 10-214)
FRANCHISES
§ 175.40 NATURAL GAS.
   The governing body has granted to Black Hills Energy the right and privilege
to construct, maintain, and operate a system of mains, pipes, services and
other appliances in, upon, over, across and along the streets, avenues, alleys,
bridges and public places of the City of Weeping Water, Cass County, Nebraska,
for the transmission, transportation, distribution and sale of gas for
domestic, commercial, industrial and other uses, in the city and elsewhere;
prescribing the terms and conditions under which the company is to operate;
prescribing the time when Ordinance 507 shall be in full force and take effect
and repealing Ordinance 301. Actual details of the agreement, and the present
gas rates, charges, and fees are available at the Municipal Clerk’s office.
(‘84 Code, § 10-501) (Am. Ord. 507, passed 10-12-98)
§ 175.41 TELEPHONE.
   The governing body has granted to Windstream the authority to maintain, and
operate a telephone system within the municipality. Actual details of the
agreement, and the present telephone rates, charges, and fees are available at
the Municipal Clerk’s office.
(‘84 Code, § 10-502)
§ 175.42 ELECTRICITY.
   The Governing Body has granted to the Omaha Public Power District the
authority to maintain and operate the light and power system in the
municipality for the purpose of furnishing electric energy to the municipality,
and fixing the charges for such services. Actual details of the agreement and
the present electrical rates, charges, and fees are available at the Municipal
Clerk’s office.
(‘84 Code, § 10-503) (Am. Ord. 399, passed 5-9-88)
§ 175.43 CABLE TELEVISION.
   The request of Zito Media to renew cable television Ordinance 357, passed
September 14, 1981, as amended, assigned and extended, and to change the
expiration date thereof to September 14, 2021 is hereby granted. Except to the
extent affected herein, franchise Ordinance 357 passed September 14, 1981, as
amended, shall continue in full force and effect.
(‘84 Code, § 10-504) (Ord. 357, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. 523, passed 9-10-01;
Am. Ord. 580, passed 12-8-08)
CHAPTER 176: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
176.01   Public nudity
176.02   Discharging firearms; exceptions
Sexual Predator Regulations
176.15   Findings and intent
176.16   Definitions
176.17   Sexual predator residency restrictions
176.18   Loitering prohibited near school grounds
176.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 176.01 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to, knowingly or intentionally, in a
public place or in any place open to the public, appear in a state of nudity.
   (B)   NUDITY means the showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic
area with less than a fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast
with less than a fully opaque covering on any part of the nipple, or the
showing of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any theater, concert hall, art center, museum or similar
establishment which is primarily devoted to the arts or theatrical performances
and in which any of the circumstances contained in this section were permitted
or allowed as part of such art exhibit for performance;
      (2)   Any dressing/changing room or restroom facility open to the public;
      (3)   Mothers who are breast feeding.
   (D)   Any person or entity violating any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more
than $1,000 for each offense.
(‘84 Code, § 6-358) (Ord. 520, passed 2-12-01)
§ 176.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Twenty-two caliber rifles or handguns may be discharged in a city-approved
rifle range within the city limits only when monitored by an adult member of a
recognized gun club. Said firearms may be discharged during the hours of the
day in which the noise level of said discharged weapons will not interfere with
other business, social or religious activities of the city.
(‘84 Code, § 6-326.01) (Ord. 384, passed 9-8-86)
SEXUAL PREDATOR REGULATIONS
§ 176.15 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act.
   (B)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual
predators cannot reside.
(Ord. 553, passed 7-10-06)
§ 176.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act.
   LOITER.
      (1)   Standing, sitting idly, whether or not the person is in a vehicle
or remaining in or around any of the premises described in this subchapter;
      (2)   Standing, sitting idly, whether or not the person is in a vehicle
or remaining in or around any of the premises described in this subchapter, for
the purpose of committing or attempting to commit a sex offense; or
      (3)   Entering or remaining in a building in or around any of the
premises described in this subchapter, other than the offender’s residence.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational, or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live, or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives, or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in Neb.
RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to the
Sex Offender Registration Act.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by Nebraska State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-
4013, and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Ord. 553, passed 7-10-06)
§ 176.17 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum distance
separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer boundary line of
the school or child care facility.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
      (1)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
      (2)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved from
that residence; or
      (3)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or child
care facility triggering the restriction was established after the initial date
of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Ord. 553, passed 7-10-06) Penalty, see §
176.99
§ 176.18 LOITERING PROHIBITED NEAR SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   It is unlawful for a child sex offender to knowingly loiter within 500 feet
of a school building or real property comprising any school while persons under
the age of 18 years are present in the building or on the grounds, unless the
said child sex offender is an invitee of a person who resides within 500 feet
of a school building or real property comprising a school and is accompanied by
such resident, provided such resident is not also a child sex offender.
(Ord. 553, passed 7-10-06) Penalty, see § 176.99
§ 176.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of §§
176.15 et seq. shall be punished as provided generally in this code.
(Ord. 553, passed 7-10-06)
CHAPTER 177: LAND USAGE
Section
Comprehensive Plan
177.01   Adopted by reference
Zoning and Subdivision Regulations
177.10   Adopted by reference
177.11   Zoning fees designated by Zoning Administrator
177.12   Manufactured homes; standards
177.13   Performance bond for sidewalk construction
Flood Plain District Regulations
177.20   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purposes
177.21   Definitions
177.22   Lands to which regulations apply
177.23   Enforcement Officer
177.24   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
177.25   Compliance
177.26   Abrogation and greater restrictions
177.27   Interpretation
177.28   Warning and disclaimer of liability
177.29   Severability
177.30   Appeal
177.31   Development permit
177.32   Establishment of zoning districts
177.33   Standards for flood plain development
177.34   Flood Fringe Overlay District (including AO and AH Zones)
177.35   Floodway Overlay District
177.36   Variance procedures
177.37   Non-conforming uses
177.38   Amendments
Building Permits
177.50   Issuance
Vacant Buildings
177.60   Purpose
177.61   Definitions
177.62   Vacant building registration
177.63   Vacant building fees
177.64   Exemptions
177.65   Inspections
177.66   Emergency repairs
177.67   Costs of emergency repairs, hearing and appeal
177.68   Alternative procedures
 
177.99   Penalty
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 177.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
Comprehensive Development Plan for the City of Weeping Water, Nebraska, as
prepared by JEO (Johnson Erickson & O’Brien), adopted 1999, is hereby
incorporated by reference in addition to all amendments which may now or in the
future be made, as though printed in full herein. Such plan shall consist of
maps, graphs, and text. Three copies of the herein adopted plan shall be kept
on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of
the public during office hours.
(‘84 Code, § 11-101)
ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 177.10 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   A certain document, 1 copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk of the City of Weeping Water, Nebraska, being marked and designated as
“The Official Zoning Ordinances, Subdivision Regulations, Official City Map of
the City of Weeping Water dated July 13, 1999, and Zoning Map dated July 13,
1999, consisting of text, schedules of regulations, official map of the City of
Weeping Water showing corporate limits and official zoning map, is hereby
adopted as the official zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, official
map of the City of Weeping Water, Nebraska showing corporate limits and zoning
map of the City of Weeping Water, as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions deletions and changes, if any prescribed therein.
(‘84 Code, § 11-201) (Am. Ord. 509, passed 6-13-99; Am. Ord. 531, passed 8-11-
03; Am. Ord. 538, passed 5-10-04; Am. Ord. 539, passed 8-9-04)
§ 177.11 ZONING FEES DESIGNATED BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The established fees shall be set in regard to the noted zoning
actions:
      (1)   Change of zoning
            Text change   $35.00 + publication fees
            Map amendment   $75.00 + publication fees
      (2)   Board of Adjustment
            Variances; appeals   $75.00 + publication fees
      (3)   Subdivisions
            Small tract/lot split   $50.00+ publication fees
            Preliminary plat   $100.00 + $2.00/lot + publication fees
            Final plat   $100.00 + $2.00/lot + publication fees
      (4)   Conditional/special use permit   $35.00 + publication fees
      (5)   Miscellaneous permit
            Fences and accessory buildings, less than 120 square feet   $25.00
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council of the City of Weeping Water, Nebraska
shall act as a whole as Zoning Administrator.
(‘84 Code, § 11-201.01) (Ord. 511, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord. 517, passed 10-9-
00; Am. Ord. 528, passed 9-9-02)
§ 177.12 MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Department of Health or the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to the following standards which are applicable to
site-built, single-family dwellings:
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation;
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections;
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located;
      (4)    The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)    Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards:
      (1)    The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area;
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width;
      (3)    The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of 2½
inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material, and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction;
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile, or rock; and
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights, and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, manufactured home shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with National
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. 3280 et seq.
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing the
seal of the Department of Health.
(‘84 Code, § 11-202) (Ord. 456, passed 5-8-95)
§ 177.13 PERFORMANCE BOND FOR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   New home builders shall be required to post a performance bond to cover the
cost of construction of sidewalks before occupancy of said residence in an
amount equal to $15 per lineal foot of sidewalk to be constructed.
(Res. 00-7, passed 6-12-00)
FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 177.20 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the State of Nebraska has
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt zoning
regulations designed to protect the public health, safety and general welfare.
The Legislature, in Neb. RS §§ 31-1001 to 31-1022 (as amended), has further
assigned the responsibility to adopt, administer, and enforce flood plain
management regulations to the county, city or village with zoning jurisdiction
over the flood prone area. Therefore, the City Council of the City of Weeping
Water, Nebraska, ordains as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The flood hazard
areas of Weeping Water, Nebraska, are subject to inundation which results in
loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce
and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused
by:
         (a)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in flood plains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities;
         (b)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods
or hazardous to others, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
      (3)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This subchapter uses a
reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which consists of a series of
interrelated steps.
         (a)   Selection of a regulatory flood which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated and the depth of inundation. The
base flood is selected for this subchapter. It is representative of large
floods which are reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on
the particular streams subject to this subchapter. It is in the general order
of a flood which could be expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any 1
year, as delineated on the Federal Insurance Administration's Flood Insurance
Study, and illustrative materials dated November 26, 2010, as amended.
         (b)   Calculation of water surface profiles based on a hydraulic
engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas
to convey the base flood.
         (c)   Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood
without increasing flood heights more than 1 foot at any point.
         (d)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no
obstruction is permitted which would cause any water surface increase along the
floodway profile.
         (e)   Delineation of floodway fringe, i.e., that area outside the
floodway encroachment lines, but which still is subject to inundation by the
base flood.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (B)(1) above by applying the provisions of this
subchapter to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for
intended purposes because of flood hazard;
      (4)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the Flood Plain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this subchapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel is unpredictable
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding in characterized by
ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equalled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.  For the purposes of determining rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1,1975, for FIRM’s effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is complete before the effective date
of the flood plain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That area of the flood plain, outside of the floodway, that on
the average is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (i.e., that has a 1%
chance of flood occurrence in any 1 year).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Flood Insurance Study has delineated the flood hazard boundaries and the
zones establishing insurance rates applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevations of the base flood.
   FLOOD PLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. (See FLOODING).
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than 1 foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of flood plain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this subchapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land which has been divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or
sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  For flood plain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a flood
plain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of flood plain management regulations adopted by a community.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND.  At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, Pub. L. 94-348, includes
substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days
of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include installation of streets and/
or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home, and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT includes structures which have incurred
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not however include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure.
   VARIANCES.  A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
subchapter which permits continuation in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
subchapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. A failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's flood plain management regulations.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.22 LANDS TO WHICH REGULATIONS APPLY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City
of Weeping Water, Nebraska identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
dated November 26, 2010, as numbered and unnumbered A Zones (including AE, AO
and AH Zones) and within the Zoning Districts FW and FF established in §
177.32. In all areas covered by this subchapter no development shall be
permitted except upon the issuance of a flood plain permit to develop, granted
by the Weeping Water City Council or its duly designated representative under
such safeguards and restrictions as the Weeping Water City Council or the
designated representative may reasonably impose for the promotion and
maintenance of the general welfare, health of the inhabitants of the community
and where specifically noted in §§
177.33,
177.34 and
177.35.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.23 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Flood Plain Administrator of the community is hereby designated as the
community's duly designated Enforcement Officer under this subchapter.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.24 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the Floodway and Flood Fringe Overlay Districts shall be
determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map or on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map or Floodway Map. Where interpretation is needed to the exact
location of the boundaries of the districts as shown on the official zoning
map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions, the Enforcement Officer shall make the
necessary interpretation. In such cases where the interpretation is contested,
the Board of Adjustment will resolve the dispute. The regulatory flood
elevation for the point in question shall be the governing factor in locating
the district boundary on the land. The person contesting the location of the
district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present his or her
case to the Board of Adjustment and to submit his or her own technical
evidence, if he or she so desires.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.25 COMPLIANCE.
   Within identified special flood hazard areas of this community, no
development shall be located, extended, convened or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this subchapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.26 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this subchapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existent casements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
subchapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this subchapter
shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this subchapter are
hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.27 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.28 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by man-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This subchapter does not imply that areas
outside Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries or land uses permitted
within such districts will be free from flooding or flood damage. This
subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the City of Weeping Water
or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that may result from
reliance on this subchapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.29 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this subchapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this subchapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.30 APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the Flood
Plain Administrator, the applicant may apply for such permit or variance
directly to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.31 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any
flood plain development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining a separate permit for development as defined in §
177.21.
   (B)   Administration.
      (1)   The Flood Plain Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Duties of the Flood Plain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
         (a)   Review all development permit applications to assure that sites
are reasonably safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this
subchapter have been satisfied.
         (b)   Review applications for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required.
         (c)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding.
         (d)   Notify adjacent communities and the Nebraska Department of
Natural Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
         (e)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
         (f)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new
or substantially improved structures in special flood hazard areas.
         (g)   Verify, record and maintain record of the actual elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) to which new or substantially improved structures
have been flood proofed.
         (h)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure the
Flood Plain Administrator shall be presented certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect.
   (C)   Application for permit. To obtain a flood plain development permit,
the applicant shall first file an application in writing on a form furnished
for that purpose. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the flood
plain development permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be done
by lot, block, tract and house and street address, or similar description that
will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
development;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed development is
intended;
      (4)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed
construction;
      (5)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
      (6)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Flood Plain Administrator.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10) Penalty, see §
177.99
§ 177.32 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Along watercourses where a floodway has been established, the mapped flood
plain areas are hereby divided into the two following districts: a Floodway
Overlay District (FW) and a Flood Fringe Overlay District (FF) as identified in
the Flood Insurance Study (and accompanying map(s)). Within these districts all
uses not meeting the standards of this subchapter and those standards of the
underlying zoning district shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.33 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PLAIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   No permit for development shall be granted for new construction,
substantial improvements and other development(s) including the placement of
manufactured homes within all numbered and unnumbered A zones (including AH,
AO, and AH zones) unless the conditions of this section are satisfied.
   (B)   All areas identified as unnumbered A zones on the FIRM are subject to
inundation of the base flood; however, the water surface elevation was not
provided. The unnumbered A zones shall be subject to all development provisions
of §
177.34. If Flood Insurance Study data is not available, the community shall
utilize any base flood elevation or floodway data currently available from
federal, state or other sources.
   (C)   Until a floodway has been designated, no development or substantial
improvement may be permitted within special flood hazard areas unless the
applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development or substantial
improvement, when combined with all other existing and reasonably anticipated
developments or substantial improvements, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than 1 foot at any location as shown on the
Flood Insurance Study.
   (D)   New construction, subdivision proposals, substantial improvements,
prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured homes and other developments
shall require:
      (1)   Design or anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters, and on-site
waste disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination;
      (3)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage, utilizing
methods and practices that minimize flood damages, and with electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other
service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
      (4)   All utility and sanitary facilities be elevated or floodproofed up
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (E)   Storage of material and equipment.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (F)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, be required to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize
or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Proposals for development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivision) of 5 acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser, include
within such proposals the base flood elevation.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10) Penalty, see §
177.99
§ 177.34 FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT (INCLUDING AO AND AH ZONES).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Any use permitted in §
177.35 shall be permitted in the Flood Fringe Overlay District. No use shall be
permitted in the district unless the standards of §
177.33 are met.
   (B)   Standards for the Flood Fringe Overlay District.
      (1)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of residential
structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above 1
foot above the base flood elevation.
      (2)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of non-
residential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above 1 foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, to be flood proofed so that below that level
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
division are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Flood Plain
Administrator as set forth in §
177.31(B)(7).
      (3)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: a minimum of 2 openings having a total net area of
not less than 1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be not higher than
1 foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters.
      (4)   Within AH zones adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes
shall be required in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
      (5)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist floatation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in
accordance with local building codes or FEMA guidelines. In the event that
over-the-top frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific
requirements (or their equivalent) shall be met:
            1.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the 4 corners of the
manufactured home, with 2 additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring 1 additional tie per
side;
            2.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with 5
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring 4 additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
         (b)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within special flood hazard areas on the community's
FIRM on sites be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home is at or above 1 foot above the base flood elevation;
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in
accordance with the provisions of division (B)(5)(a) above.
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood.
         (c)   Require that manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park, or subdivision within
special flood hazard areas on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of division (B)(5)(b) above be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above 1
foot above the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade; and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of division (B)(5)
(a) above.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within the special flood
hazard areas on the community's official map shall either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes of this subchapter. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanently attached additions.
      (7)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
177.22 are areas designated as AO Zones. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply within AO Zones:
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as 1 foot above the depth number
specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number
is specified).
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
            1.   Have the lowest floor elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as 1 foot above the depth number specified in feet on
the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified); or
            2.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Such certification
shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
177.31(B)(7).
         (c)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10) Penalty, see §
177.99
§ 177.35 FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Only uses having a low flood damage potential and not
obstructing flood flows shall be permitted within the Floodway District to the
extent that they are not prohibited by any other ordinance. The following are
recommended uses for the Floodway District:
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, nurseries,
forestry;
      (2)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking and play areas;
      (3)   Non-residential areas such as loading areas, parking and airport
landing strips;
      (4)   Public and private recreational uses such as golf courses, archery
ranges, picnic grounds, parks, wildlife and nature preserves.
   (B)   Standards for the floodway overlay district. New structures for human
habitation are prohibited. All encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development must be prohibited unless
certification by a registered professional engineer or architect is provided
demonstrating that the development shall not result in any increase in water
surface elevations along the floodway profile during occurrence of the base
flood discharge. These uses are subject to the standards of §§
177.33 and
177.34. In Zone A unnumbered, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any flood
elevation and floodway data available through federal, state or other sources
or §
177.33(F)(4), in meeting the standards of this section.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10) Penalty, see §
177.99
§ 177.36 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Procedures. The Board of Adjustment as established by the Weeping
Water City Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances
from the requirements of this subchapter.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Flood Plain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this subchapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or
any taxpayer may appeal such decision to the District Court as provided in Neb.
RS 19-912.
      (3)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluation, all relevant factors, standards specified in
other sections of this subchapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and flood plain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles:
            1.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            2.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of 1/2 acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing items (B)(2) through (6) below have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the 1/2 acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels along the floodway profile during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   The applicant shall be given a written notice over the signature of
a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.37 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of the subchapter, but which is not in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter may be continued subject to
the following conditions:
      (1)   If such use is discontinued for 6 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this subchapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Flood Plain Administrator in writing of instances
of non-conforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a
period of 6 months.
      (2)   Uses or adjuncts thereof that are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred except that if it
is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this subchapter. This
limitation does not include the cost of any alteration to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, building, or safety codes or regulations or
the cost of any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places, provided that the
alteration shall not preclude its continued designation.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
§ 177.38 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this subchapter
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to reflect
any and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973,
provided, however, that no such action may be taken until after a public
hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest and citizens shall
have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Weeping
Water. At least 10 days shall elapse between the date of this publication and
the public hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulations of this subchapter are in
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations as published
in Title 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations and the 1983 Nebraska Flood
Plain Management Act.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 177.50 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   If construction or improvements commence prior to the issuance of a
building permit, the owner shall be subject to the removal of said improvements
and/or a fine of $100.
(‘84 Code, § 9-504) (Ord. 380, passed 1-13-86)
   (B)   The County of Cass shall provide for the inspection of all new
construction of all permanent non-agricultural buildings, additions to existent
buildings, and buildings which are moved, within the city corporate limits and
also shall include the jurisdictional limits of the city zoning area which lies
outside the corporate boundaries of the city. The County of Cass shall issue
building permits on behalf of the city based on a fee schedule which is part of
the building code as adopted by the County of Cass. That a copy of the
interlocal governmental agreement regarding building inspections between the
City of Weeping Water and the County of Cass shall be available for inspection
by the public in the office of the city clerk during normal office hours.
(‘84 Code, § 9-505) (Ord. 406, passed 7-10-89; Am. Ord. 462, passed 1-8-96)
Cross reference:
   Building permits and regulations, see §§
150.01 -
150.04
VACANT BUILDINGS
§ 177.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of Weeping Water by establishing a program for identification and
registration of vacant commercial buildings, determining the responsibilities
of owners of vacant commercial buildings and structures, and providing for
administration, enforcement, and penalties.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
§ 177.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Having the objective of supplying commodities (goods
and services) and ancillary business functions.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING. A building with more than 50% of its floor space used
for commercial activity. For the purposes of this section, floor space shall be
designated as the area on the main or street level of the building.
   DANGEROUS STRUCTURE. A structure that is potentially hazardous to persons or
property, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A structure that is in danger of partial or complete collapse;
      (2)   A structure with any exterior parts that are loose or in danger of
falling; or
      (3)   A structure with any parts, such as floors, porches, railings,
stairs, ramps, balconies or roofs, that are accessible and that are either
collapsed, in danger of collapsing or unable to support the weight of normally
imposed loads.
   OWNER. The person, persons, or entity shown to be the owner or owners of
record on the records of the Cass County Register of Deeds, those identified as
the owner or owners on a vacant building registration form, holder of an
unrecorded contract for deed, a mortgage or vendor in possession, assignee of
rents, receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, other person, firm or corporation
in control of the freehold of the premises or lessor state therein. Any such
person, persons, or entity, shall have a joint and several obligation for
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS. A building secured by means other than
those used in the design of the building.
   UNOCCUPIED. A building which is not being used for a legal occupancy. The
storage of products and materials does not constitute occupancy unless
authorized by the zoning ordinance of the pity.
   UNSECURED. A building or portion of a building that is open to entry by
unauthorized persons without the use of tools.
   VACANT BUILDING.
      (1)   A building or portion of a building that is:
         (a)   Unoccupied and secured;
         (b)   Unoccupied and unsecured;
         (c)   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means;
         (d)   Unoccupied and a dangerous structure;
         (e)   Unoccupied and condemned;
         (f)   Unoccupied and has city code violations; or
         (g)   Condemned and illegally occupied.
      (2)   VACANT BUILDING does not mean any building being constructed
pursuant to a valid permit issued pursuant to the city Building Code.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
§ 177.62 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner shall register with the city not later than 30 days after
the effective date of this subchapter, or not later than 30 days after any
commercial building in the city becomes a vacant building as defined in this
subchapter. The owner of the building will be required to pay a $40 fee at the
time of registration. This fee includes the initial inspection of the property
by the City Building Inspector.
   (B)   In the event that a vacant building is not registered with the city
within 30 days of becoming vacant a $250 registration fee will be required.
This fee includes the initial inspection of the property by the City Building
Inspector.
   (C)   The registration shall be submitted on forms provided by the city. The
forms shall include a plan for the continued care and upkeep of the property
acceptable to the city and a timetable for returning the building to
appropriate occupancy or use and/or for demolition of the building and such
other information deemed necessary by the city.
   (D)   All applicable laws and codes shall be complied with by the owner. The
owner shall notify the city of any changes in information supplied as part of
the vacant building registration within 30 days of the change. If the plan or
timetable for the vacant building is revised in any way, the revisions must
meet the approval of the city.
   (E)   The owner and any subsequent owners shall keep the building secured
and safe and the building and grounds properly maintained until the
rehabilitation or demolition has been completed. The building shall not be used
for storage.
   (F)   Any new owner(s) shall register or re-register the vacant building
with the city within 30 days of any transfer of an ownership interest in a
vacant building. The new owner(s) shall comply with the approved plan and
timetable submitted by the previous owner until any proposed changes are
submitted and meet the approval of the city.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
§ 177.63 VACANT BUILDING FEES.
   (A)   The owner of a vacant building shall pay an annual fee for the period
the building remains a vacant building. The fee shall increase in the fourth
year that the building is vacant at the following rate structure:
      (1)   Years 1 through 3   $ 1,000
      (2)   Years 4 and beyond   $2,000
   (B)   The first annual fee shall be paid no later than 30 days after the
building becomes vacant for 1 year. If the fee is not paid within 30 days of
being due, the owner shall be in violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   The owner of a vacant building shall be required to pay the following
initial registration and inspection fee:
      (1)   Initial registration within 30 days of vacancy (includes initial
inspection)   $40
      (2)   Initial registration after 30 days of vacancy (includes initial
inspection)   $250
   (D)   Once the initial inspection is completed and code violations are
noted, the following fees shall apply:
      (1)   Each subsequent inspection to correct noted code violations   $50
      (2)   Failure to correct code violations within timetable per
occurrence   $250
   (E)   The fees shall be paid in full prior to the issuance of any building
permits, with the exception of a demolition permit.
   (F)   Fees associated with this subchapter shall be paid directly to the
city. In the event that fees are unpaid, the City Attorney shall institute
appropriate action against the owner of the premises where the vacant structure
is or was located for the recovery of such costs.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
§ 177.64 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A building that has suffered fire damage shall be exempt from the
registration requirement for 90 days after the date of the fire if the property
owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the city. This request
shall include the following information supplied by the owner:
      (1)   A description, of the premises;
      (2)   The names and addresses of the owner or owners;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the current/former tenant; and
      (4)   A statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building in an
expedient manner.
   (B)   A vacant building that is actively listed and offered for sale shall
be exempt from the annual vacant building fee subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   The building, is offered at a price not to exceed 25% above the
assessed value as documented by the Cass County Assessor's Office.
      (2)   The owner will be required to submit evidence of the assessed value
of the building to the city and the asking price for the property 30 days prior
to the 1-year anniversary of vacancy.
   (C)   A vacant building that is offered for rent shall be exempt from the
annual vacant building fee subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The amount of the rent requested is comparable to other commercial
buildings in the commercial district of the vacant building.
      (2)   The owner of the vacant building is responsible to provide
sufficient documentation to substantiate the request for exemption.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
§ 177.65 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The city may inspect any premises in the city for the purposes of
enforcing and assuring compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. Upon
registration, the vacant building will be inspected by the City Building
Inspector and a report will be provided to the owner noting code deficiencies,
if any. The owner will be required to make necessary repairs based upon a
reasonable timetable to allow the property to become occupied. Subsequent
inspections will be made by the City Building Inspector to ensure that repairs
have been completed. Subsequent inspections will be billed to the owner based
on the information contained in §
177.63.
   (B)   Should a building remain vacant for 12 consecutive months, an
inspection shall occur. An annual inspection shall be conducted on each 12-
month anniversary of the vacancy. The city reserves the right to inspect a
vacant building at any reasonable time as conditions warrant.
   (C)   The failure to correct the noted code deficiencies in a timely manner
will result in a fee assessment noted in §
177.63.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
§ 177.66 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety, or general welfare of any person or persons, and the owner
fails to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice by the Building
Inspector to do so, the city may summarily repair such building or structure.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
§ 177.67 COSTS OF EMERGENCY REPAIRS, HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair the building, the owner of the
building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the City Clerk request
a hearing before the Board of Appeals, to present reasons why the building
should not be repaired. The Board of Appeals shall grant such hearing within 10
days from the date of receiving the request.
   (B)   A written notice of the Board of Appeals decision following the
hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified mail. If the Board of
Appeals rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 10 days from the sending of
the decision to begin repair. If after the 10-day period the owner has not
begun work, the city shall proceed to cause such work to be done; provided, the
property owner may appeal such decision to the appropriate court for
adjudication during which proceedings the decision of the city shall be stayed.
   (C)   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to comply with notice by, or on behalf of, the city to repair or
rehabilitate a building or structure which is unsafe, the city may proceed with
the work specified in the notice to the property owner.
   (D)   A statement of the cost of such work, including the cost of
advertising and publishing of notices, shall be transmitted to the City
Council, which is authorized to levy the costs as a special assessment against
the land. Such special assessment shall be a lien on the real estate and shall
be collected in the manner provided for special assessments.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
§ 177.68 ALTERNATIVE PROCEDURES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to abolish or impair existing
remedies of the city authorized by this code.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
§ 177.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of §§
177.20 through
177.38 or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances
or special exceptions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
§§
177.20 through
177.38 or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $100 and in addition, shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate
authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. 594, passed 10-11-10)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
177.60 through
177.68 or providing false information to the city shall be punished as provided
in §
10.99 of this Code.
(Ord. 617, passed 7-14-14)
PARALLEL REFERENCES FOR TITLE XVII
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to 1984 Code
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Cite Title XVII Cite
Neb. RS Cite        Title XVII Cite
16-206              174.42
16-663              174.42
17-563              174.80 -
                    174.83
18-1720             174.80 -
                    174.83
19-912              177.21
28-1213             174.20,
                    174.22
28-1233(3)          174.20,
                    174.22
28-1321             174.83
29-4003             176.16
29-4013             176.16
31-1001 - 31-1022   177.20
Ch. 60, Arts. 3 - 5 173.31
71-1557             177.12
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1984 CODE
1984 Code Section Title XVII Cite
1984 Code Section Title XVII Cite
1-401             170.01
1-510             171.01
1-824             171.02
2-203             171.10
2-206             171.11
3-101             171.20
3-102             171.21
3-211             171.12(A)
3-212             171.12(B)
3-601             171.13
Ch. 3, Art. 8     172.01
3-820 - 3-833     172.02
Ch. 3, Art. 9     172.03
4-301             172.10
4-302             172.10
4-303             172.10
4-305             172.11
4-307             172.12
4-308             172.12
4-309             172.12
4-310             172.20
4-311             172.21
4-312             172.22(A)
4-313             172.23
4-314             172.24
4-315             172.25
4-316             172.26
4-317             172.22(B)
4-405             174.10
4-406             174.11
4-501             174.01
4-502             174.01
4-503             174.01
5-202             173.02
5-203             173.01
5-204             173.03
5-205             173.04
5-206             173.05(A)
5-207             173.05(B)
5-208             173.06
5-209             173.07
5-212             173.08
5-416             173.09
5-420             173.20
5-421             173.21
5-422             173.22
5-423             173.23
5-501             173.30
5-502             173.31
5-608             173.10
5-611             173.12
5-617             173.13
5-618             173.14
5-619             173.15
5-622             173.11
6-109             174.31
6-110             174.32
6-111             174.33
6-120             174.34
6-121             174.35
6-112             174.30(B)
6-326.01          176.02
6-358             176.01
7-301             174.20
7-302             174.21
7-303             174.22
7-304             174.23
8-202             174.40
8-315             173.16
9-504             177.50(A)
9-505             177.50(B)
10-102            175.20
10-211            175.30
10-214            175.31
10-317            175.10
10-403            173.40
10-404            173.41
10-405            173.42
10-406            173.43
10-407            173.44
10-501            175.40
10-502            175.41
10-503            175.42
10-504            175.43
10-601            175.01
10-603            175.02
11-101            177.01
11-201            177.02
11-201.01         177.11
11-202            177.12
11-521            177.23
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Title XVII Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Title XVII Section
357      9-14-81     175.43
380      1-13-86     177.50
383      9-8-86      175.10
384      9-8-86      176.02
399      5-9-88      175.42
403      10-10-88    172.12
406      7-10-89     177.50
407      7-10-89     172.02
412      2-12-90     173.08
431      6-14-93     175.10
441      5-9-94      174.20
442      5-9-94      174.22
456      5-8-95      177.12
460      1-8-96      173.20 -
                     173.23
461      1-8-96      175.10
462      1-8-96      177.50
471      8-12-96     174.40
475      1-13-97     172.21 -
                     172.26
477      5-12-97     175.10
486      12-8-97     171.01
507      10-12-98    175.40
509      6-13-99     177.10
511      9-13-99     177.11
517      10-9-00     177.11
520      2-12-01     176.01
521      7-9-01      172.22
523      9-10-01     175.43
528      9-9-02      177.11
531      8-11-03     177.10
538      5-10-04     177.10
539      8-9-04      177.10
540      8-9-04      173.11
542      11-8-04     171.02
549      10-10-05    173.16
550      10-10-05    174.40
552      4-10-06     175.01
                     176.15 –
553      7-10-06     176.18,
                     176.99
554      7-10-06     175.20
                     174.50 –
556      8-7-06      174.55,
                     174.99
558      1-8-07      Adopting Ordinance
563      9-10-07     172.22
566      11-12-07    173.32
568      1-14-08     174.37
575      7-14-08     172.22
579      12-8-08     172.04
580      12-8-08     175.43
581      1-12-09     171.03
582      1-12-09     173.17
589      3-8-10      173.24
590      5-5-10      174.38
591      7-12-10     174.30
                     177.20 -
594      10-11-10    177.38,
                     177.99
595      10-11-10    174.60
604      9-10-12     173.17
607      11-12-12    173.17
609      3-11-13     174.41,
                     174.42
616      5-12-14     174.35
                     177.60 -
617      7-14-14     177.68,
                     177.99
623      4-13-15     174.70
626      5-9-16      173.19
627      6-13-16     171.02
629      9-8-16      172.22
630      9-12-16     175.10
632      11-14-16    174.38
635      10-9-17     174.80 -
                     174.83
639      5-14-18     171.01
645      6-10-19     172.22
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Title XVII Section
00-7     6-12-00     177.13
05-3     2-14-05     174.36
                    
 
 
