VILLAGE OF WESTON, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-03, passed September 7, 2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Codification
   
10.02   Repeal prior ordinances in conflict
   
10.03   Exceptions
   
10.04   Defining chapters and sections; ordinance numbering
   
10.05   Validity
   
10.06   Fines, costs and commitments
   
10.07   Empowerment of other law enforcement personnel
   
10.08   Definitions
   
10.09   Construction of chapters, subchapters and sections; amendments;
alterations and codifications; procedure
   
10.10   Publication and distribution
   
10.11   When operative
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 CODIFICATION.
   The ordinances of the village are hereby revised, adopted and declared to be
the ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.02 REPEAL PRIOR ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances of a general or permanent nature
passed and approved prior to the passage and approval of this codification and
in conflict with this codification are hereby repealed; provided, in construing
the provisions of this chapter, the following ordinances shall not be
considered or held to be ordinances of a general or permanent nature, towit:
   (A)   Ordinances vacating streets or alleys;
   (B)   Ordinances authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (C)   Ordinances levying taxes or special assessments;
   (D)   Ordinances granting any right, privilege, franchise or license to
persons, firms or corporations;
   (E)   Ordinances providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness; or
   (F)   Any other ordinance which by nature would be considered special.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The repeal of ordinances as provided in §
10.02 shall not affect any right acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures or
liabilities incurred thereunder, or actions involving any of the provisions of
such ordinances and parts thereof; said ordinances listed in §
10.02 repealed are hereby continued in force and effect after the passage,
approval and publication hereof for the purpose of all such rights, fines,
penalties, forfeitures and liabilities and actions therefor.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.04 DEFINING CHAPTERS AND SECTIONS; ORDINANCE NUMBERING.
   The chapters and sections as set forth herein shall be and hereby are
declared to be the chapters and sections to designate said provisions. All
ordinances hereafter passed shall be numbered consecutively in the usual
manner.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.05 VALIDITY.
   Each chapter, section and division of a section of each ordinance is hereby
declared to be independent of each other chapter, section or division of a
section so far as inducement of the passage of this chapter is concerned; and
the invalidity of any chapter, section or division of a section of this chapter
shall not invalidate any other chapter, section or division of a section
thereof.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.06 FINES, COSTS AND COMMITMENTS.
   In any case where any person, including a partnership or corporation, shall
have been found guilty of the violation of any ordinance of the village, such
person shall pay the costs of prosecution and court costs and shall stand
committed until the same shall have been paid in full.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.07 EMPOWERMENT OF OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   The village police shall apply in all instances to all other law enforcement
officials, including state patrol officers and the County Sheriff and deputies.
Whenever this code empowers the village police to take any action, such
empowerment shall extend to and apply equally to any state patrol officer or
the County Sheriff or deputies.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Weston, Nebraska.
   GENDER; NUMBER. All words used herein implying the masculine gender may
apply to and include the feminine or neuter gender, and all words importing the
plural may be applied to and mean a single person, firm or thing, or vice
versa; and all words importing the singular number may be applied to and mean
plural number.
   PERSON. Includes persons, artificial persons such as corporations,
copartnerships, associations and all aggregate organizations of whatever
character.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Weston, Nebraska, a municipal corporation.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.09 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTERS, SUBCHAPTERS AND SECTIONS; AMENDMENTS;
ALTERATIONS AND CODIFICATIONS; PROCEDURE.
   For purposes of construction, each chapter contained and arranged in this
village code shall be considered as a separate and distinct ordinance, and each
section appearing in the several chapters of this code shall be considered a
separate and distinct unit of legislation germane to the chapter or subchapter
under which it is considered.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.10 PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION.
   This code was printed in book form under the direction of the Chairperson
and Board of Trustees, and shall be distributed as they may see fit.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.11 WHEN OPERATIVE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and take effect from and after its
passage, approval and publication according to law.
(Ord. 100, passed 10-2-1995)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this village code,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, shall be deemed guilty of an
offense and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of
failure to comply with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in Title IX of this code,
the village may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
   Authority to impose fines, see Neb. RS 17-207 and 17-505
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS AND BOARDS
      
33.   ELECTIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Corporate existence
   
30.002   Corporate seal
   
30.003   Election; terms; qualifications
   
30.004   General powers
   
30.005   Oath; organization; Chairperson
   
30.006   Chairperson; powers and duties; absence
   
30.007   Standing committees
   
30.008   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.009   Vacancy due to unexcused absences
Meetings
   
30.020   Definitions
   
30.021   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
30.022   Notice to news media
   
30.023   Village Board meetings; when; where; quorum
   
30.024   Emergency meetings
   
30.025   Attendance other than in person
   
30.026   Closed sessions
   
30.027   Prohibited acts; exempt events
   
30.028   Public participation
   
30.029   Village Board; order of business
   
30.030   Votes
   
30.031   Village Board; parliamentary procedure
   
30.032   Minutes
   
30.033   Village Board; change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
30.045   Bonds; requirements
   
30.046   Oath of office; village officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
30.060   Officers; salaries
   
30.061   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
30.062   Conflict of interest involving contracts
Notices
   
30.075   Publication of notices
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
30.090   Grant of power
   
30.091   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
30.092   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.093   Ordinances; style and title
   
30.094   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders and bylaws
   
30.095   Publication or posting
   
30.096   Certificate of publication or posting
   
30.097   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
30.098   Amendments and revisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 CORPORATE EXISTENCE.
   The village having a population of less than 800 inhabitants, is hereby
declared to be a village, and shall be governed in all respects by the laws
regulating villages.
(Prior Code, § 1-101)
§ 30.002 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   There shall be owned by the village, in the office of the Village
Clerk, a common seal of the corporation, having engraved thereon the words
“Village of Weston, Nebraska, Seal.”
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall affix an impression of said seal on all papers
or documents executed by him or her in his or her official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 1-102)
§ 30.003 ELECTION; TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The corporate powers and duties of the village shall be vested in a
Board of Trustees which shall consist of five members. At the first statewide
general election held after the incorporation of the village, two Trustees
shall be elected to serve two years and three Trustees shall be elected to
serve four years. Thereafter the Board members shall be elected as provided in
the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. The terms shall begin on the first
regular meeting of the Board in December following the statewide general
election.
(Neb. RS 17-202)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall be elected at the statewide
general election as provided in division (A) above and each four years
thereafter. Except as provided in that division, the term of each Board member
shall be four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-532)
   (C)   Any person may be a Trustee who is a citizen of the United States,
resides in the village and is a registered voter.
(Neb. RS 17-203)
   (D)   Unless the village provides otherwise, members of the Board of
Trustees shall be elected from the village at large on a nonpartisan ballot.
   (E)   The Board of Trustees shall determine whether the person meets all
requirements before swearing in a Trustee.
(Neb. RS 32-602)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect Trustees at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Ability to provide for a partisan ballot, see Neb. RS 32-557
   Holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-209.02 and 32-604
§ 30.004 GENERAL POWERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to pass ordinances:
      (1)   To prevent and remove nuisances within the village or within its
one-mile zoning jurisdiction;
      (2)   To restrain and prohibit gambling;
      (3)   To provide for licensing and regulating theatrical and other
amusements within the village;
      (4)   To prevent the introduction and spread of contagious diseases;
      (5)   To establish and regulate markets;
      (6)   To erect and repair bridges;
      (7)   To erect, repair, and regulate wharves;
      (8)   To regulate the landing of watercraft;
      (9)   To provide for the inspection of building materials to be used or
offered for sale in the village;
      (10)   To govern the planting and protection of shade trees in the
streets and the building of structures projecting upon or over and adjoining,
and all excavations through and under, the sidewalks of the village;
      (11)   To maintain the peace, good government and welfare of the village
and its trade and commerce; and
      (12)   To enforce all ordinances by inflicting penalties upon inhabitants
or other persons for violation of such ordinances not exceeding $500 for any
one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-207)
   (B)   The village has the power and authority by ordinance to define,
regulate, suppress and prevent nuisances, and to declare what constitutes a
nuisance, and to abate and remove the same. The village may exercise this power
and authority within its corporate limits and extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The village may enter into an interlocal agreement pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801 et seq., with a county in which the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city or village is located to
provide for joint and cooperative action to abate, remove or prevent nuisances
within such extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction. The governing body of such
village and the county board of such county shall first approve such interlocal
agreement by ordinance or resolution.
(Neb. RS 18-1720)
§ 30.005 OATH; ORGANIZATION; CHAIRPERSON.
   Every Trustee, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall
take an oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of Nebraska and faithfully and impartially to discharge the duties
of his or her office. All Trustees elected to office shall qualify and meet on
the first regular meeting of the Board of Trustees in December thereafter,
organize, elect a Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, and appoint the
officers required by law.
(Neb. RS 17-204)
Statutory reference:
   Oath, see Neb. RS 11-101
§ 30.006 CHAIRPERSON; POWERS AND DUTIES; ABSENCE.
   (A)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees
and perform all duties of his or her office in accordance with the laws of the
state and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees shall cause the ordinances of
the Board to be printed and published for the information of the inhabitants
and cause such ordinances to be carried into effect. In the absence of the
Chairperson from any meeting of the Board, the Board shall have power to
appoint a Chairperson pro tempore, who shall exercise and have the powers and
perform the same duties as the regular Chairperson.
(Neb. RS 17-210)
   (C)   The Chairperson and the Chairperson pro tempore shall have the same
powers and privileges as other members of the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.007 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Board of Trustees each year, the
Chairperson shall appoint members of those standing committees as the Board may
create by ordinance or resolution. The membership of the standing committees
may be changed at any time by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an ex
officio member of each standing committee. The members of the standing
committees shall serve terms of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed each year
until changed by the Board of Trustees.
§ 30.008 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every elective office shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C) or (D) below,
vacancies in village elected offices shall be filled by the Board of Trustees
for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a vacancy
resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and presented to
the Board at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a part of the
minutes of that meeting. The Board shall at once give public notice of the
vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village or by posting in three public places in the village the office
vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board shall call a special meeting of the
Board or place the issue of filling the vacancy on the agenda at the next
regular meeting at which time the Chairperson shall submit the name of a
qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired
term. The regular or special meeting shall occur upon the death of the
incumbent, or within four weeks after the meeting at which such notice of
vacancy has been presented. The Board shall vote upon the nominee, and if a
majority votes in favor of the nominee, the vacancy shall be declared filled.
If the nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the nomination shall
be rejected and the Chairperson shall, at the next regular or special meeting,
submit the name of another qualified registered voter to fill the vacancy. If
the subsequent nominee fails to receive a majority of the votes, the
Chairperson shall continue at that meeting to submit the names of qualified
registered voters in nomination and the Board shall continue to vote upon the
nominations at such meeting until the vacancy is filled. All Trustees present
shall cast a ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Board who has
been appointed to fill a vacancy on the Board shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees may, in lieu of filling a
vacancy in a village elected office as provided in division (B) above, call a
special election to fill that vacancy.
   (D)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the members
of the Board of Trustees, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
village election to fill those vacancies. Candidates for such special election
shall file a candidate filing form pursuant to §
33.07(C).
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of official subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.009 VACANCY DUE TO UNEXCUSED ABSENCES.
   (A)   In addition to the events listed in Neb. RS 32-560 and any other
reasons for a vacancy provided by law, after notice and a hearing, a vacancy on
the Board of Trustees shall exist if a member is absent from more than five
consecutive regular meetings of the Board unless the absences are excused by a
majority vote of the remaining members.
(Neb. RS 19-3101)
   (B)   The Board shall take a vote on whether to excuse a member’s absence
from a meeting upon either:
      (1)   A written request from the member submitted to the Village Clerk;
or
      (2)   A motion of any other Board member.
   (C)   If a member has been absent from six consecutive regular meetings and
none of the absences have been excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members, the Clerk shall include this as an item on the agenda for the next
regular meeting. At that meeting, the Board shall set a date for a hearing and
direct the Clerk to give the member notice of the hearing by personal service
or first class mail to the member’s last known address.
   (D)   At the hearing, the Board member shall have the right to present
information on why one or more of the absences should be excused. If the Board
does not excuse one or more of the member’s absences by a majority vote at the
conclusion of the hearing, there shall be a vacancy on the Board.
MEETINGS
§ 30.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special or called meetings, formal or informal, of any
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action of the public body.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The Board of Trustees;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits or any other bodies created by the Constitution of Nebraska,
statute, ordinance or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 30.021 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open the public in
order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies; except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS
84-1407 et seq.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be given by:
         (a)   1.   a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the public body’s jurisdiction that is finalized for printing prior to
the time and date of the meeting;
               b.   Posting on such newspaper’s website, if available; and
               c.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (b)   1.   a.   Posting to the newspaper’s website, if available; and
               b.   Posting on a statewide website established and maintained
as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers if no
edition of a newspaper of general circulation within the public body’s
jurisdiction is to be finalized for printing prior to the time and date of the
meeting.
            2.   Such notice shall be placed in the newspaper and on the
websites by the newspaper.
         (c)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in
such city, village, or district. Such notice shall be posted by the village in
the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   (a)   In case of refusal, neglect, or inability of the newspaper to
publish the notice, the public body shall:
            1.   Post such notice on its website, if available;
            2.   Submit a post on a statewide website established and
maintained as a repository for such notices by a majority of state newspapers;
and
            3.   Post such notice in a conspicuous public place in such public
body’s jurisdiction.
         (b)   The public body shall keep a written record of such posting. The
record of such posting shall be evidence that such posting was done as required
and shall be sufficient to fulfill the requirement of publication.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the Board of Trustees scheduled outside the corporate limits of the
village. The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include
items of an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference: 
Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(8)
§ 30.022 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The Village Clerk, in the case of the Board of Trustees, and the secretary
or other designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news
media requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 30.023 VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS; WHEN; WHERE; QUORUM.
   (A)   (1)   The meetings of the Village Board shall be held at the village
hall or other location set by the Board by resolution. Regular meetings shall
be held on the first Thursday of each month at 7:00 p.m. A special meeting may
be called by the Board Chairperson or by a majority of the Village Board for
those purposes which shall be submitted in writing to the Board members prior
to said meeting. The call and object of said meeting shall be entered upon the
journal by the Village Clerk, as well as the disposition of said meeting.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, special meetings may also
be called by any three members of the Board of Trustees. The object of a
special meeting shall be submitted to the Village Clerk in writing. The call
and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be entered upon the
journal by the Clerk. On filing the call for a special meeting, the Clerk shall
notify the members of the Board of Trustees of the special meeting, stating the
time and its purpose.
   (B)   At the hour specified for a meeting, the Village Clerk shall proceed
to call the roll of members and announce whether a quorum is present. If a
quorum is present, the Board shall be called to order by the Chairperson.
   (C)   (1)   At all meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, a majority of
the trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business. A smaller number may
adjourn from day to day and may compel the attendance of absent members in such
manner and under such penalties as prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-205)
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by the Board, on the request of any two
members, whether a quorum is present or not, all absent members shall be sent
for and compelled to attend.
§ 30.024 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
30.022 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete
minutes of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and
any formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by
no later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 30.025 ATTENDANCE OTHER THAN IN PERSON.
   A public body may allow a member of the public or any other witness other
than a member of the public body to appear before the public body by means of
video or telecommunications equipment.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 30.026 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter at the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, FORMAL
ACTION means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 30.027 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPT EVENTS.
   (A)   No person or public body shall fail to invite a portion of its members
to a meeting, and no public body shall designate itself a subcommittee of the
whole body for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter or the Open
Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq. No closed session, informal meeting,
chance meeting, social gathering, email, fax or electronic communication shall
be used for the purpose of circumventing the requirements of this subchapter or
the Act.
   (B)   This subchapter and the Act do not apply to chance meetings or to
attendance at or travel to conventions or workshops of members of a public body
at which there is no meeting of the body then intentionally convened, if there
is no vote or other action taken regarding any matter over which the public
body has supervision, control, jurisdiction or advisory power.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 30.028 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407
et seq., the public has the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings
of public bodies, and all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for
closed sessions called pursuant to §
33.026, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video
equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
Except for closed sessions called pursuant to §
33.029, a public body shall allow members of the public an opportunity to speak
at each meeting.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting, nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., hold a meeting in a place
known by the body to be too small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act, Neb. RS 84-1407 et seq., posted in the meeting room at a location
accessible to members of the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the
public shall be informed about the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
§ 30.029 VILLAGE BOARD; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the Village Board, the Village Clerk and such other village
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the village shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the order prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the Village Clerk.
§ 30.030 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a
village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and
nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 30.031 VILLAGE BOARD; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the Board of Trustees provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the Board of
Trustees. The Chairperson shall preserve order during meetings of the Board of
Trustees and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Board. When any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the
point is decided. When the Chairperson is putting the question, no person shall
leave the meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise
from his or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall
confine his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at
once, the Chairperson shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions
or motions shall be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by
the Village Clerk or any member of the Board. Every member of the Board who is
present when a question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused
by a majority of the members of the Board present. No motion shall be put or
debated unless seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Chairperson
before being debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on
the minutes, the name of the member of the Board making the motion or
resolution shall be entered also. After each vote, the “yeas” and “nays” shall
be taken and entered in the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any
resolution, motion or proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by
the sponsor with the consent of the member of the Board seconding the
resolution, motion or ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance,
different times or amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the
largest sum, or the longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order
when made by a member voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider
must be made before the expiration of the third regular meeting after the
initial consideration of the question. When any question is under debate, no
motion shall be made, entertained or seconded except the previous question, a
motion to table, and to adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without
debate. Any of the rules of the Board for meetings may be suspended by a two-
thirds vote of the members present. In all cases in which provisions are not
made by these rules, Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the
Board shall decide all procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 30.032 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent, and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the village may have an
additional ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping
the minutes is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 30.033 VILLAGE BOARD; CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall meet at the time and place of the regular
meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing officers and the
outgoing members of the Board shall present their reports. Upon the outgoing
Board having completed its business, the outgoing Trustees shall surrender
their offices to the incoming Trustees, and the outgoing officers shall
thereupon each surrender to their successors in office all property, records,
papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected Trustees and those continuing in office shall
convene immediately after the prior Board adjourns and proceed to organize
themselves for the ensuing year. The Chairperson pro tempore shall call the
meeting to order. The Clerk shall report to the Board the names of all
Trustees-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Board shall
examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of the
village to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Trustees and officers are duly qualified
and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Board shall elect a Chairperson
and shall appoint the officers required by state law or village ordinance. The
Chairperson shall then proceed with the regular order of business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 30.045 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all
officers and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The village
may pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the village shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the village in such penalty as the Board
of Trustees may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking, or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, or blanket bond or
undertaking, or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the Board of Trustees,
and with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the Village Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)    Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and village
officers, within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at
which they were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, section 5, of the Constitution of
Nebraska.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of village officers shall be executed by the
principal named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall
be freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official
bond of a village officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a village officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his
or her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the Board of Trustees and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the
instrument by the Chairperson and Village Clerk pursuant to the approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No village official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the Village Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
village, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees, become insufficient, the
Board may, by resolution, fix a reasonable time within which the officer may
give a new bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails,
refuses or neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the
satisfaction and approval of the Board, the office shall, by such failure,
refusal or neglect, become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Board to
appoint a competent and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 30.046 OATH OF OFFICE; VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the village, whether elected or appointed, except
when a different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering
upon their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall
be endorsed upon their respective bonds:
      “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 30.060 OFFICERS; SALARIES.
   All elected officers shall receive such compensation as the Board of
Trustees shall fix by ordinance. The emoluments of appointive and elective
officers of this village shall be neither increased nor decreased during the
term for which elected or appointed, except by merger of offices or when there
are other officers elected or appointed to the Board and the terms of one or
more elected or appointed to the Board and the terms of one or more members
commence and end at different times; the compensation of all members of such
Board may be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of any
member thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1-106) (Ord. passed 1-5-2015)
§ 30.061 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The appointive officials and other employees of the village shall
receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees shall designate by
ordinance; and the annual salary of the Chairperson and other members of the
Board of Trustees shall be fixed by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-209)
   (B)   Trustees may perform and upon Village Board of Trustees approval
receive compensation for seasonal or emergency work subject to §
30.062.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
   (C)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe
the compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (D)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the village other
than his or her salary. The Board of Trustees shall not pay or appropriate any
money or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance
of any act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come
within the proper scope of the duties of any officer of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (E)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices, except that when there
are officers elected to the Board of Trustees, or any other board or commission
having more than one member and the terms of one or more members commence and
end at different times, the compensation of all members of such board or
commission may be increased or diminished at the beginning of the full term of
any member thereof. No person who shall have resigned or vacated any office
shall be eligible to the same during the time for which he or she was elected
if during the same time the salary was increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 30.062 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.  
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the village which
spends and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by
that board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected village official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body or any resident within the jurisdiction
of the governing body, and shall be brought within 1 year after the contract is
signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the reimbursement of any person
for the reasonable value of all money, goods, material, labor or services
furnished under the contract, to the extent that the governing body has
benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks and buying and selling of
warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
NOTICES
§ 30.075 NOTICES; PUBLICATION.
   If the village is required to publish a notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, and if there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in the village, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. If there is no legal
newspaper in or of general circulation in such county, then the village shall
publish such notice or advertisement by posting a written or printed copy
thereof in each of three public places in the village for the same period of
time the village is required to publish the notice or advertisement in a legal
newspaper.
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 30.090 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers, the village shall have the power to make
all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations and resolutions, not inconsistent
with the laws of the state, as may be expedient for maintaining the peace, good
government and welfare of the village and its trade and commerce and to enforce
all ordinances by inflicting fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not
exceeding $500 for any one offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 30.091 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, resolutions and
motions shall be introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
30.092 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution
or motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary
law adopted for the guidance of the Board of Trustees. A majority vote shall be
required to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion
shall be by roll call vote.
§ 30.092 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the Board of Trustees has specified other procedures, ordinances
shall be introduced by members of the Board of Trustees in one of the following
ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may, in the presence
and hearing of a majority of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, read
aloud the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the Village
Clerk for future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Chairperson, a member may present the
proposed ordinance to the Clerk who, in the presence and hearing of a majority
of the members elected to the Board of Trustees, shall read aloud the substance
of the ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 30.093 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   The style of all village ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees of the Village of Weston, Nebraska:....”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly expressed in
the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 30.094 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS AND BYLAWS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all elected members of the Board of Trustees. Ordinances of a
general or permanent nature shall be read by title on three different days
unless three-fourths of the Board of Trustees vote to suspend this requirement.
Such requirement shall not be suspended for any ordinance for the annexation of
territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for village board of trustees
election districts or wards or as otherwise provided by law. In case this
requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read by title and then moved
for final passage. Three-fourths of the Board of Trustees may require a reading
of any such ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out
in this section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the Board of Trustees, the yeas
and nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance or
any such resolution or order a concurrence of a majority of the whole number of
members elected to the Board of Trustees shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the Board of Trustees shall be made viva voce, and the
concurrence of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and
for whom they voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be
recorded. The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied
by a village which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas
and nays of each member of the Board of Trustees to be readily seen by the
public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 30.095 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the village or, if
no paper is published in the village, then by posting a written or printed copy
in each of three public places in the village; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Chairperson of Board of Trustees; duties, see Neb. RS 17-210
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 30.096 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the village from the
Village Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and
in what paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the
ordinance was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 30.097 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.095 and division (B) below, an ordinance for the government of the village
which has been adopted by the Board of Trustees without submission to the
voters of the village shall not go into effect until 15 days after the passage
of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Chairperson and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the village. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the Board of Trustees, and be entered of
record on the Village Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 30.098 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the village and modifications to zoning or
building districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the village, see Neb. RS 17-614
CHAPTER 31: APPOINTED VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment; terms; removal; powers; duties
   
31.02   Qualification for office
   
31.03   Merger of offices
   
31.04   Clerk-Treasurer position created
   
31.05   Village Clerk
   
31.06   Village Treasurer
   
31.07   Village Attorney
   
31.08   Village police officer
   
31.09   Water and Sewer Commissioner
   
31.10   Street Commissioner
   
31.11   Standing committees
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT; TERMS; REMOVAL; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may appoint a Village Clerk, Treasurer,
Attorney, village police officer, Water and Sewer Commissioner, Street
Commissioner and Electrical Commissioner, and other such officers as shall be
required by ordinance or otherwise required by law. Pursuant to division (A)(2)
below, the village police officer may appeal to the Village Board his or her
removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the
Village Board of Trustees may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2) The Village Board of Trustees shall by ordinance adopt rules and
regulations governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay
of any police officer, in accordance with the requirements of Neb. RS 17-208.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the preemptory suspension
or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the appropriate authority,
pending the hearing authorized by this section, in cases of gross misconduct,
neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   Division (A)(2) above does not apply to a police officer during his
or her probationary period.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, Treasurer, Attorney, Water and Sewer Commissioner,
Street Commissioner and Electrical Commissioner, and other appointed officers,
except regular police officers, shall hold office for one year unless removed
by the Chairperson of the Village Board with the advice and consent of the
Trustees.
(Neb. RS 17-208)
   (C)   (1)   The village may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Village Board of Trustees appoints any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
village ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 QUALIFICATION FOR OFFICE.
   Each appointive officer who is required to give bond shall qualify by filing
the required bond and oath as provided in §§
30.045 and
30.046. Each appointive officer who is not required to give bond shall qualify
by filing the required oath as provided in §
30.046.
§ 31.03 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, combine or merge any
elective or appointive village office or village employment or any combination
of duties of any such offices or employments, except that the office of Trustee
shall not be combined or merged with any other village office or village
employment except as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   The village offices or village employments combined or merged shall
always be construed to be separate and the effect of the combination or merger
shall be limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (B)   (1)   The office of Trustee shall not be combined or merged with any
other village office or village employment, except that a member of the Board
of Trustees may receive compensation to perform seasonal or emergency work upon
approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation from
the village in excess of the maximum amount provided by law.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and volunteer
rescue squad personnel shall not be considered village officers.
(Neb. RS 17-209.02)
§ 31.04 CLERK-TREASURER POSITION CREATED.
   The appointive offices of Village Clerk and Village Treasurer are hereby
combined and merged, in accordance with the authority granted to the Village
Board by state law. The offices so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination, or merger, shall
be limited to a consolidation of official duties only. The salary of the
officer holding the merged offices shall not be in excess of the maximum amount
provided by law for the salary of the offices so combined.
(Prior Code, § 1-202)
§ 31.05 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances
and shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees.
After the period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant
to the Records Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq., the Clerk may transfer
the journal of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees to the State Archives
of the Nebraska State Historical Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk
shall also perform such other duties as may be required by the ordinances of
the village. If the Clerk is acting as the Treasurer, he or she shall also
comply with the requirements of §
31.06(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the Board of Trustees within 30 days after any meeting
of the Board. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is
published in the village, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
village is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general
funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy village public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act, Neb. RS 84-1201 et seq. This shall not apply to the minutes of
the Clerk and the permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record
classified as permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the village kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the village as may be entitled to the use of the
same, but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to
Neb. RS 84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office,
including a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a
proper index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all
petitions under which the Board of Trustees shall order public work to be done
at the expense of the property fronting thereon, together with references to
all resolutions and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse
the date and hour of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her
office. All such filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed.
Included in his or her records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto
and other documents incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a
manner convenient for reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete
account of the appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest
all warrants ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which
the same is payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a
report of the amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the
warrants drawn thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances and resolutions under
his or her charge to the Chairperson for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees or committees.
With the seal of the village, he or she shall duly attest the Chairperson’s
signature to all ordinances, deeds and papers required to be attested to when
ordered to do so by the Board of Trustees.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the village ordinances. He or
she shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some
other village officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall
keep a register of all licenses granted in the village and the purpose for
which they have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the Board
of Trustees or under the ordinances of the village. To each of the file copies
of the notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the village, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or
in whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney
by letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
§ 31.06 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money
belonging to the village. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall
give every person paying money into the treasury a receipt for such money,
specifying the date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also
file copies of such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer
shall, at the end of every month, and as often as may be required, render an
account to the Board of Trustees, under oath, showing the state of the treasury
at the date of such account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she
shall also accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and
disbursements, together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her,
which warrants, with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed
with his or her account in the Village Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails
to render his or her account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a
later date established by the Board of Trustees, the Chairperson with the
advice and consent of the Board may use this failure as cause to remove the
Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the village, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the
bonds were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid or
canceled. He or she shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year
and the terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the village fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the village for the preceding fiscal year. The
statement shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or
Neb. RS 17-606(2). Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141
shall be charged and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the village. If no legal newspaper is published in the village,
then such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of
general circulation within the county in which the village is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the village separate
and distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds,
coupons, warrants and other evidences of debt against the village, whenever
paid by him or her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the
Village Treasurer,” with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or
she shall collect all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the
several owners and obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the
collection of delinquent taxes.
§ 31.07 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the Board of
Trustees. He or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions
necessary to be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the village, or
that may be ordered by the Board. When requested, he or she shall attend
meetings of the Board and give them his or her opinion upon any matters
submitted to him or her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or
she shall draft or review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts,
franchises and other instruments as may be required, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or
ordinance. The Board shall have the right to pay the Village Attorney
compensation for legal services performed by him or her for it on such terms as
the Board and Attorney may agree, and to employ additional legal assistance and
to pay for such legal assistance out of the funds of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by
the Board of Trustees, the ordinance records and advise and assist the Village
Clerk as much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be
taken in the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and
subsisting local law in so far as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.08 VILLAGE POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the village police officer, and he or she is
hereby authorized and empowered, to diligently inquire into any and all
violations of the village ordinances and to make order and arrest with proper
process for any offense against the laws or ordinances of the village, and he
or she shall prosecute all those guilty of violation.
   (B)   The village police officer shall have general control over motor
vehicular traffic, and said police, together with such special officers
detailed to assist him or her as traffic officers by the Chairperson and Board
of Trustees, shall direct the movement of traffic at intersections and
elsewhere; and it shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or
signal of the village police or of any special traffic officer.
   (C)   The village police officer shall bring all prisoners who are under
arrest for the violation of any village ordinances before the county court
whenever required to do so by rule or order of the county judge, and he or she
shall make or cause to be made the necessary written complaint against such
person or persons when arrested.
   (D)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be required by him or
her by resolution or by order of the Chairperson and Board Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-207) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.09 WATER AND SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   The Board member appointed by the Chairperson to the Water and Sewer
Committee shall be known as the Water and Sewer Commissioner and shall have the
final control and supervisory authority over all the employees of the water and
sewer system, which the Board may from time to time hire to operate and
maintain said system. He or she shall make such reports as the Board may
require of the condition of the water and sewer system and all of the
appurtenances connected thereto. No money shall be expended for improvements,
repairs or extensions of such water or sewer system, except upon the
recommendation of the Commissioner, and all such improvements, repairs and
extensions shall be under his or her direction supervision.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
§ 31.10 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   The Board member appointed by the Chairperson to the Street Committee shall
serve as the Commissioner of said Committee and shall have general charge,
direction and control of all work on the streets, sidewalks, culverts and
bridges of the village, and shall perform such other duties as the Board may
require. It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
therein function properly and that the same are kept in good repair. He or she
shall, at the request of the Board, make detailed reports on the condition of
the streets, sidewalks, culverts, alleys and bridges of the village and direct
its attention to such improvements, repairs, extensions, additions and need for
additional employees as he or she may believe are needed to maintain a
satisfactory street system in the village, along with estimates of the cost
thereof. It shall be the special duty of the Commissioner to supervise and
direct the snow and tree work in the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-209)
§ 31.11 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the Village Board, the Chairperson
shall appoint standing committees for the following departments:
      (1)   Water and Sewer;
      (2)   Park; and
      (3)   Street.
   (B)   The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any time
by the Village Chairperson, who shall be a member ex officio of each standing
committee. The members of the standing committees shall continue in office
until the next regular election, after which a new organizational meeting is
held. The Chairperson, with the approval of the Village Board, may appoint such
other citizens of the village as members of such standing committees.
(Prior Code, § 1-206)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS AND BOARDS
Section
   
32.01   Planning Commission
   
32.02   Cemetery Board
§ 32.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Board of Trustees adopts zoning or other regulations
pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of
five regular members, as specified by the Board of Trustees by ordinance, who
shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the village and shall be appointed by the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees by and with the approval of a majority vote of the members
elected to the Board. Two of the regular members may be residents of the area
over which the village is authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and
subdivision regulation. When there are 200 residents in the area over which the
village exercises extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one
regular member of the Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is
determined by the Board of Trustees that 200 residents reside in the area
subject to extraterritorial zoning or subdivision regulation, and no such
resident is a regular member of the Commission, the first available vacancy on
the Commission shall be filled by the appointment of such an individual. A
number of commissioners equal to a majority of the number of regular members
appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
any business. All regular members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation. The term of each regular member shall be three years, except that
one-third or fewer of the regular members of the first commission to be so
appointed shall serve for terms of one year, one-third or fewer for terms of
two years and the remaining members for terms of three years. All regular
members shall hold office until their successors are appointed. Any member may,
after a public hearing before the Board of Trustees, be removed by the
Chairperson of the Board with the consent of a majority vote of the members
elected to the Board for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office
or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through
the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by
the Chairperson of the Board.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees may, with the approval of
a majority vote of the elected members of the Board, appoint one alternate
member to the Planning Commission. The alternate member shall serve without
compensation and shall hold no other village office. The term of the alternate
member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may be removed from
office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate member position
becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term, the vacancy shall
be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Chairperson of the Board
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Board. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except Mayor, a member of the Board of Trustees, a
member of any community redevelopment authority or limited community
redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01, or a member of any
citizen advisory review committee created under Neb. RS 18-2715.
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The Board of Trustees may require
the Commission to meet more frequently and the Chairperson of the Commission
may call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but no more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public
record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the Village
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may provide the funds, equipment and
accommodations necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures
of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for that purpose by the Board; and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 to 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the
village, including any areas outside its boundaries which in the Commission’s
judgment bear relation to the planning of such village and including a
comprehensive development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested village departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the Comprehensive
Development Plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
commission, make preliminary reports on its findings and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees shall not take final action on matters
relating to the comprehensive development plan, capital improvements, building
codes, subdivision development, the annexation of territory or zoning until it
has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission; provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
Board of Trustees within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter or within such other number of days as the Board of Trustees has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks,
if the Board of Trustees has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, in its own name:
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts or grant funds from
public or private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the village;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration or
reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the Board of
Trustees has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally
authorized the Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the
standards and procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and
judiciously granting such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting
of a conditional use permit or special exception shall only allow property
owners to put their property to a special use if it is among those uses
specifically identified in the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses
which may require special conditions or requirements to be met by the owners
before a use permit or building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the Board of Trustees
may choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Board may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Board regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the District Court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.02 CEMETERY BOARD.
   The village owns and manages the village cemetery through the Cemetery
Board. The Board of Trustees, for the purpose of the defraying the cost of the
care, management, maintenance and beautification of the cemetery, may each year
levy a tax not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by state law on the
actual valuation of all real estate and personal property within the village
that is subject to taxation. The revenue from the said tax shall be known as
the Cemetery Fund and shall include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests, money, stocks, bonds or other valuable income-producing personal
property and real estate from any source for the purpose of endowing the
cemetery. The Cemetery Fund shall at all times be in the custody of the Village
Treasurer. The Board shall have the power and authority to hire and supervise
such employees as it may deem necessary and to pass such rules and regulations
for the operation of the cemetery as may be proper for its efficient operation.
Said rules and regulations shall be in printed form and kept current in the
Office of the Village Clerk for public inspection at any time. All actions by
the Cemetery Board shall be under the supervision and control of the Village
Board of Trustees. In the event no Cemetery Board is appointed, then the
Village Board of Trustees shall act as the Cemetery Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-601)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Generally
   
33.02   Notice
   
33.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
33.04   Special elections
   
33.05   Election of officers; certification
   
33.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
33.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer; special election
requirements
   
33.08   Filing fee
   
33.09   Petition, write-in and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
33.10   Recall procedure
   
33.11   Exit polls; poll watchers
§ 33.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All village issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide
primary and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of
separate ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if village offices or
issues can reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law
does not require otherwise. All village elections involving the election of
officers shall be held in accordance with the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et
seq., and in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the village holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. Any other election held by the village
shall be held as provided in the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the
charter, code or bylaws of the village.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
   (C)   The village shall furnish to the Secretary of State and Election
Commissioner or County Clerk any maps and additional information which the
Secretary of State and Election Commissioner or County Clerk may require in the
proper performance of their duties in the conduct of elections and
certification of results.
§ 33.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all village elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 33.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the
village on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all village
elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 33.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the village shall be
certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on
or before the eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be
held by mail as provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special
election under this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the village
may submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any
scheduled county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a
statewide election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be
submitted has been certified by the Village Clerk to the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk by March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the
general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the Village Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or
posting of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other
than the notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue
ballots for early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue,
including the receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election
returns shall be made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots
shall be counted and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the
other ballots. Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County
Canvassing Board, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the
election results to the Board of Trustees. The canvass by the County Canvassing
Board shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   A village that has submitted an issue for a special election
under division (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the village shall
be responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled
election. Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS
32-1202 associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A village that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
village withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.,
shall be held on the first Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected
month unless otherwise specifically provided. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, no special election shall be held under the Election Act in April,
May, June, October, November or December of an even-numbered year unless it is
held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general election. No special
election shall be held under the Election Act in September of an even-numbered
year except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564 and except for a special election by
a political subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to
approve a property tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 33.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATION.
   No later than June 15 of each even-numbered year, the Village Board shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner or the County
Clerk, the name of the village, the number of officers to be elected, the
length of the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and
length of remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered
voter for each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner and County
Clerk shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 33.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective village officers shall be nominated and elected on a
nonpartisan basis unless the village provides for a partisan ballot by
ordinance. No ordinance providing for nomination and election on a partisan
ballot shall permit affiliation with any party not recognized as a political
party for purposes of the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination
and election on a partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than
60 days prior to the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 33.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER; SPECIAL ELECTION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any candidate for the Board of Trustees may place his or her name on
the general election ballot by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the
Secretary of State as provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an
incumbent of an elective office, the filing period for filing the candidate
filing form shall be between January 5 and July 15 prior to the date of the
primary election. No incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the
expiration of his or her term shall file for any office after July 15 of that
election year. All other candidates shall file for office between January 5 and
August 1 prior to the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 32-564, any candidate in a special
election to fill a vacancy for an office of a political subdivision may have
his or her name placed on the special election ballot by filing a candidate
filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as provided in Neb. RS 32-607
and this division (C).
      (2)   The filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be:
         (a)   On or before March 1 for a special election to be held in
conjunction with the statewide primary election;
         (b)   On or before August 1 for a special election to be held in
conjunction with the statewide general election; and
         (c)   Between the eighth Friday prior to the election and the fifth
Friday prior to the election for all other elections.
      (3)   A candidate filing form for such special election shall meet the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-607, except that the form shall contain the
following statement: “I hereby swear that I will abide by the laws of the State
of Nebraska regarding the results of the special election, that I am a
registered voter and qualified to be elected, and that I will serve if
elected.”
      (4)   A candidate filing form for such special election shall be filed
with the filing officer specified in Neb. RS 32-607(2).
(Neb. RS 32-606.01)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 33.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall
be paid to the Village Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for village
office prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general fund
of the village. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper
payment or the proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is
presented to the filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the Village
Treasurer’s office shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of
the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in divisions (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
         PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are
found under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his
or her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the Board of
Trustees prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the
Board of Trustees, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 33.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the village, if candidates are chosen at large,
or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen
by ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as
provided for candidate filing forms in §
33.07. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be
filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the
filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by
September 1 in the year of the general election, and all signed petitions not
filed with the Secretary of State by such date shall become invalid.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the village or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected,
not to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 33.10 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING OFFICER. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   Any member of the Board of Trustees may be removed from office by
recall pursuant to this section.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing a member of
the Board of Trustees be submitted to the registered voters shall be signed by
registered voters equal in number to at least 45% of the total vote cast for
the person receiving the most votes for that office in the last general
election. The signatures shall be affixed to petition papers and shall be
considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing officer.
Prior to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form
shall be signed and filed with the filing officer by at least one registered
voter. Such voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or
circulators of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and
office of the Trustee sought to be removed, shall include in concise language
of 60 words or less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall
request that the filing officer issue initial petition papers to the principal
circulator for circulation.
      (4)   After receiving the filing form, the filing officer shall notify
the Trustee by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification
cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in
Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving a copy of the filing form at the Trustee’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last
known address. If the Trustee chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement
in concise language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such
defense statement shall be submitted to the filing officer within 20 days after
the Trustee receives the copy of the filing form. The filing officer shall
prepare the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the
defense statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the
petition papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing officer that
the petition papers are available. The filing officer shall notify the
principal circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be
gathered within 30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (5)   The filing officer, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
officer shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing officer may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (6)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing officer within 30 days after the filing officer
issues the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators
as provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing officer shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. Any person may remove his or her name
from a petition as provided in Neb. RS 32-632. If the petition is found to be
sufficient, the filing officer shall attach to the petition a certificate
showing the result of such examination. If the requisite number of signatures
has not been gathered, the filing officer shall file the petition in his or her
office without prejudice to the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
officer shall notify the Trustee whose removal is sought and the Board of
Trustees that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the
Trustee shall be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the Trustee’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the Trustee’s last
known address.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing officer pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order
an election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the election
commissioner or county clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the village within 90 days after
such notification, the Board shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the Trustee whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the Board may cancel the recall election if the Board notifies the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk of the cancellation on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election; otherwise, the recall election shall be
held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing officer is subject to a recall election, the Secretary
of State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) above shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the Trustee named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the Trustee shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the Trustee named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the Trustee is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office, which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section, Neb. RS 32-567 through 32-570, 32-574, and 32-606.01.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the Trustee in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the Trustee files a written statement with the filing officer
that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the Board of Trustees at one time due to the recall of such members,
a special election to fill such vacancies shall be conducted as expeditiously
as possible by the Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk.
Candidates for the special election shall file a candidate filing form pursuant
to §
34.07(C).
      (5)   No Trustee who is removed at a recall election or who resigns after
the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the vacancy
resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of the
Board of Trustees during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
Trustee within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
§ 33.11 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place, or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter's ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not do any electioneering or disseminate any
information or materials advertising or advocating for or against any ballot
measure while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box and any
ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly visible to
the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on election
day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll watcher
from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
34.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
34.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
34.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
34.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
34.07   Special assessment fund
   
34.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
34.09   Deposit of funds
   
34.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
34.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
34.12   Bond issues
   
34.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
34.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
34.25   Fiscal year
   
34.26   Budget procedures
   
34.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
34.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
34.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
34.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
34.31   Appropriation bill
   
34.32   General Fund
   
34.33   Transfer of funds
   
34.34   Budget revision
   
34.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
34.50   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
34.51   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
34.52   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
34.53   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
34.54   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
34.55   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
34.56   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
34.57   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the village that provides for a biennial period
to determine and carry on the village’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years used by the village in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the village has a lottery established under
the Nebraska County and Village Lottery Act, Neb. RS 9-601 et seq., only those
net proceeds which are actually received by the village from a licensed lottery
operator shall be considered PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include
amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 34.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
village.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs or
financial condition of the village and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the annual report.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village or the fiscal year
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
village fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall cause an audit of the village’s
accounts to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the village for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the Board of Trustees. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report
made by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of
the fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a
written resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees may
request a waiver of the audit requirement subject to the requirements of Neb.
RS 84-304. If the village is required to conduct an audit under Neb. RS 84-304
and owns or operates any type of public utility or other enterprise which
substantially generates its own revenue, the Board of Trustees shall have that
phase of the village’s affairs reported separately from the other functions of
the village. The result of that audit shall appear separately in the annual
audit report made by the accountant to the village, and the audit shall be on a
cash or accrual basis at the discretion of the Board of Trustees.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the village. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the
Village Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts.
The annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the Village Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall provide and file with the Village Clerk,
not later than August 1 of each year, financial statements showing the
village’s actual and budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal
year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 34.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace or add to the electric distribution,
transmission or generation system of the village, no contract for enlargement
or general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating
systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the
cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing
over $30,000, shall be made unless it is first approved by the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the Board of Trustees
makes any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargement or general
improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets or any other work or improvement when the cost of the
enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost
shall be made by the Village Engineer and submitted to the Board of Trustees.
In advertising for bids as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the Board
of Trustees may publish the amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargement or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargement or general improvements.
   (D)   A village electric utility may enter into a contract for the
enlargement or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of
equipment used for the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids
if the price is:
      (1)   An amount of $30,000 or less;
      (2)   An amount of $60,000 or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   An amount of $90,000 or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   An amount of $120,000 or less and the village electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) below shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper
published in or of general circulation in the village. In case of a public
emergency resulting from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive
windstorms, floods, snow, war or an exigency or pressing necessity or
unforeseen need calling for immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious
loss of or serious injury or damage to life, health, or property, estimates of
costs and advertising for bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance
authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when adopted by a three-fourths vote of the Board
of Trustees and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the Board
of Trustees receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received
by the Board of Trustees contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the
Board of Trustees may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the
proposed enlargement or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the
estimate given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees, no cost can be
estimated until the materials have been manufactured or assembled to the
specific qualifications of the village, the Board of Trustees may authorize the
manufacture and assemblage of those materials and may thereafter approve the
estimated cost expenditure when it is provided by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any village bidding procedure may be waived by the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in the State Procurement Act,
Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a village which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 34.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to appropriate, issue or
draw any order or warrant on the Village Treasurer for money, unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
34.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the Board of Trustees, or any
committee or member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the
officers or departments of the village, whether the object of the expenditures
shall have been ordered by the Board of Trustees or not, unless an
appropriation shall have been previously made concerning such expense, except
as otherwise expressly provided in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the Village Treasurer must be signed by the
Chairperson and countersigned by the Village Clerk, stating the particular fund
to which the same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what
particular object. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so
drawn. Each warrant shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget
statement for such fund upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended
of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 34.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the village shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the village in any action
brought against it for any claim or for any claim allowed in part which has not
been presented to the Board of Trustees to be audited, unless the recovery is
for a greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the Board of Trustees, the order for
their payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which
they are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement; and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists at the
time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or the
state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 34.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The village shall have authority to collect the special assessments
which it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees of any village collecting its own special
assessments shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be
mailed or otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against
whom those special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or
other party responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to
receive the notice shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the
special assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A village collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference: 
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 34.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the Village
Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for
which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for any
such improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 34.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village is hereby empowered to receive money or property by
donation, bequest, gift, devise or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more
of the public purposes for which sinking funds are established by the
provisions of this section, as stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or
property so donated shall vest in the Board of Trustees, or in its successors
in office, who shall become the owners thereof in trust to the uses of the
sinking fund or funds; provided. In the event of a donation of real estate, the
Board of Trustees may manage the real estate as in the case of real estate
donated to the village for village library purposes under the provisions of
Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees, subject to all the limitations set forth in
this section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on
each $100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property
within the village for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the
amount of tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted
budget statement of the village, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund
for the construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment or
repair, not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
village libraries; village auditoriums or community houses for social or
recreational purposes; village halls; village public libraries, auditoriums or
community houses in a single building; village swimming pools; village jails;
village fire stations, together with firefighting equipment or apparatus;
village parks; village cemeteries; village medical buildings, together with
furnishings and equipment; or village hospitals. The village shall not be
authorized to levy the tax or to establish the sinking fund as provided in this
division if, having bonded indebtedness, such village has been in default in
the payment of interest thereon or principal thereof for a period of ten years
prior to the date of the passage of the resolution providing for the submission
of the proposition for establishment of the sinking fund as required in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned village improvements mentioned in division
(B) above by the village, the Board of Trustees shall declare its purpose by
resolution to submit to the qualified electors of the village at the next
general village election the proposition to provide the village with the
specific village improvement planned under this section. The resolution of
submission shall, among other things, set forth a clear description of the
improvement planned, the estimated cost according to the prevailing costs, the
amount of annual levy over a definite period of years, not exceeding ten years,
required to provide such cost, and the specific name or designation for the
sinking fund sought to be established to carry out the planned improvement,
together with a statement of the proposition for placement upon the ballot at
the election. Notice of the submission of the proposition, together with a copy
of the official ballot containing the same, shall be published in its entirety
three successive weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the village or, if no legal newspaper is in or of
general circulation in the village, in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the county in which the village is located. No such sinking fund
shall be established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more
of the legal votes of the village cast for or against the proposition. If less
than a majority of the legal votes favor the establishment of the sinking fund,
the planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied
therefor, and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in
connection therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be
repealed. If the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner
prescribed in this division (C), the Board of Trustees and its successors in
office shall proceed to do all things authorized under such resolution of
submission but never inconsistent with this section. The election provided for
under this section shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act, Neb.
RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the Village Treasurer, by donation or by tax
levy, as hereinbefore provided, shall, as they accumulate, be immediately
invested by the Treasurer, with the written approval of the Board of Trustees,
in the manner provided in §
34.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the Board
of Trustees, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the
Village Clerk in the proceedings of the Village Board. The sinking fund, or
sinking funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section, shall
constitute a special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the
same was authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless
authorized by 60% of the qualified electors of the village voting at a general
election favoring such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds;
provided that the question of the change in the use of the sinking fund or
sinking funds, when it fails to carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance
for a period of one year from and after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
§ 34.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping, in banks, capital stock financial institutions or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received or held by him or her as Village Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
Board of Trustees for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as a
member of the Board of Trustees or as any other officer of the village shall
not disqualify the bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying
mutual financial institution from acting as a depository for the village funds.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, Neb. RS 77-2386 et seq., to secure the payment of all such
deposits and accretions. The Board of Trustees shall approve this bond or
giving of security. The Village Treasurer shall not be liable for any loss of
any money sustained by reason of the failure of any such depository so
designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference: 
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 34.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The Village Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Board of Trustees
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 34.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the Village Treasurer holds funds of the village in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the Treasurer to
invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered warrants of the
village, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively by any of
the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks or the 13 banks for
cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, or in
interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United States. The interest on
such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund out of which the bonds or
warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the village from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for the improvements of the works, or into the general
fund as the Board may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Board,
be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water or gas funds, or the
funds arising from the sale of electric light, water or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments, may be transferred to the general fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the village has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the Board of Trustees may invest any such surplus in excess of
current needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in
time deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act, Neb. RS 17-
1269 et seq., and the State Funds Investment Act, Neb. RS 17-1237 et seq., and
as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment
Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The State Investment
Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current authorized investment
guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (D)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital or to expand the investment authority of a local
government investment pool under the Public Entities Pooled Investment Act,
being Neb. RS 77-23,109 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 34.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The Board of Trustees may, after meeting all the requirements of state law,
issue bonds, fund bonds and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted
by state law. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-145
§ 34.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The village may contract to retain a collection agency licensed
pursuant to the Collection Agency Act, Neb. RS 45-601 et seq., within or
without this state, for the purpose of collecting public debts owed by any
person to the village.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt;
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid; and
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, debt shall include all delinquent fees
or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case of
debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 34.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   (1)   If authorized by the Board of Trustees, any village official may
accept credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person
or electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
      (2)   A county treasurer, county official, or political subdivision
official shall not accept a central bank digital currency as a method of cash
payment of any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine,
license, fee or assessment of whatever kind or nature.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the village
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the Board of Trustees may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards
or debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic
funds transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for
services to reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The village official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   (1)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted
and the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer
and the Director of Administrative Services, with the advice of a committee
convened by the State Treasurer and the Director. The committee shall consist
of the State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director and representatives
from counties, villages and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate.
The committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or more
credit card, charge card or debit card companies or third-party merchant banks
for services on behalf of the state and those counties, villages and political
subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for such
services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for the purposes
of this section, any negotiated discount or processing or transaction fee
imposed by a credit card, charge card or debit card company or third-party
merchant bank, as an administrative expense.
      (2)   If the Board of Trustees chooses not to participate in the state
contract, it may choose types of credit cards, charge cards and debit cards and
may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a governmental
entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service companies,
credit card, charge card or debit card companies, or third-party merchant banks
for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the Board of Trustees, a village official
authorizing acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized, but not required, to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the village, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the
surcharge or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card
companies or third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division
(E) above. The surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed
by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card
involved or when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card
company involved. When a person elects to make a payment to the village by
credit card or charge card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed,
the payment of the surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by
that person and shall be in no case refundable. If a payment is made
electronically by credit card, charge card, debit card, or electronic funds
transfer as part of a system for providing or retrieving information
electronically, the village official shall be authorized, but not required, to
impose an additional surcharge or convenience fee upon the person making a
payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY. A digital medium of exchange, token or
monetary unit of account issued by the United States Federal Reserve System or
any analogous federal agency that is made directly available to the consumer by
such federal entities. CENTRAL BANK DIGITAL CURRENCY includes a digital medium
of exchange, token, or monetary unit of account so issued that is processed or
validated directly by such federal entities.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire System.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 34.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village and any public utility of the village
commences on October 1 and extends through the following September 30 except as
provided in the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 34.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 34.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period and until
the adoption of the budget by the Board of Trustees in September, the Board of
Trustees may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the
village. Except as provided in division (B) below, the expenditures shall not
exceed an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget
in the equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. The
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the Board of Trustees that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the village to meet its statutory
duties and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in
excess of the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees
in open public session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be
charged against appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided
in the budget when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to
authorize expenditures by the village in excess of that authorized by any other
statutory provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 34.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall annually or biennially prepare a
proposed budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of
Public Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the
public prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
34.29.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from taxation of personal and real property, separately
stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered cash
balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the year
or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial periods, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal voters
of the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS
18-2801 et seq., and a grand total of all funds maintained by the Board of
Trustees; and
         (f)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in
the budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement, which is approved by the Board of Trustees as provided in the
Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the village as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer
for the village and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget
statement.
   (C)   The village shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period, and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from the taxation
of personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 34.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time. Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together
with a summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published at least
four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such notice, the
four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the day of
hearing. When the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not
exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget
summary may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters. At such
hearing, the governing body shall make at least three copies of the proposed
budget statement available to the public and shall make a presentation
outlining key provisions of the proposed budget statement, including, but not
limited to, a comparison with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public
desiring to speak on the proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address
the governing body at the hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of
time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the legal
voters of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the budget shall be filed with
the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the State Budget Act,
Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., or Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor
detects such errors, he or she shall immediately notify the Board of such
errors. The Board shall correct any such error as provided in §
35.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Board.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 34.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the Board of Trustees shall file with
and certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each
year or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 to 13-522 if applicable, together with the amount
of the tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the Board of Trustees or the
legal voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this division
(B), the Board of Trustees, in certifying the amount required, may make
allowance for delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required plus the
actual percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial
period and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For purposes of this section,
anticipated litigation shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the
Board of Trustees shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or
lesser than the amount determined under §
34.28.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall use the certified taxable values as
provided by the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year
in setting or certifying the levy. The Board of Trustees may designate one of
its members to perform any duty or responsibility required of the Board by this
section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 34.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State
Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq., to be termed “The Annual Appropriation
Bill,” in which the Board may appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed
necessary to defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the village.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 34.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the village has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 34.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
Board of Trustees that due to unforeseen emergencies there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Board may by a majority vote, unless
otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
34.34 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the Board who obligate funds contrary to
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the Board of Trustees may
propose to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a
public hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it
becomes apparent to the Board of Trustees that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The Board of Trustees has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the
Nebraska Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et seq.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. This published notice shall set forth:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required and
for what purpose;
      (3)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year to meet the need for additional money in that
manner;
      (4)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget previously
published; and
      (5)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the Board of Trustees, the Board
shall file with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the Board
of Trustees is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget, as adopted. The Board of Trustees may then issue warrants in
payment for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These
warrants shall be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during
the next fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
34.29, the Board of Trustees may, or within 30 days after notification of an
error by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Board shall correct an adopted
budget which contains a clerical, mathematical or accounting error which does
not affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction. After correction, the Board of Trustees shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the County Clerk of the county or counties in which the
Board of Trustees is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The Board
of Trustees may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by
the budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 34.35 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
village.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the village’s general fund in excess
of the amount paid by the village to the proprietary function for actual
service or services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the village’s general fund shall have the same fiscal
year as the village.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the Village Clerk containing the following
information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees shall conduct a public hearing on the
statement. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the
proposed proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed
proprietary budget statement is available for public review with the Village
Clerk during normal business hours shall be published one time at least five
days prior to the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation
within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the
Board’s jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the Village
Clerk within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the Board of Trustees shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the Board’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the Board’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the adopted
proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual expenditures and
revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the proprietary function
reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the village
budget statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, Neb. RS 13-501 et
seq., the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, Neb. RS 18-2801 et seq., need not
be followed for that proprietary function. Any income from a proprietary
function which is transferred to the General Fund of the village shall be shown
as a source of revenue in the village budget statement created pursuant to the
State Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 34.50 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The village shall have power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in
any one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the village. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 34.51 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The village shall have power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 34.52 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of Nebraska and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year the Board of Trustees may decide to
certify to the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy required to be
raised by taxation for all village purposes instead of certifying a schedule of
levies for specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
34.53, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the village.
Otherwise authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the village may be made by the village in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in village
financing, the village shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the village in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or
in other legal manner, as the Board of Trustees deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the village elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for general fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 34.53 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the village for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The village may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the village’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Neb. RS 13-801
et seq., or the Joint Public Agency Act, Neb. RS 13-2501 et seq. The maximum
levy shall include amounts levied to pay for sums to support a library pursuant
to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb. RS 51-501, visiting community nurse,
home health nurse, or home health agency pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or
statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb. RS 80-202. Property tax levies
for judgments, except judgments or orders from the Commission of Industrial
Relations, obtained against the village which require or obligate the village
to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not paid by liability
insurance coverage of the village, for preexisting lease- purchase contracts
approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness approved according to
law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments by a public airport to
retire interest-free loans from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded
indebtedness at a lower cost to the public airport are not included in the levy
limits established by this division (A). The limitations on tax levies provided
in this division (A) are to include all other general or special levies
provided by law. Notwithstanding other provisions of law, the only exceptions
to the limits in this division (A) are those provided by or authorized by this
section. Tax levies in excess of the limitations in this section shall be
considered unauthorized levies under Neb. RS 77-1606 unless approved under
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, Neb. RS 3-501 et seq., and community redevelopment
authorities established under the Community Development Law, Neb. RS 18-2101 et
seq., may be allocated property taxes, as authorized by law, which are
authorized by the village and are counted in the village levy limit provided by
division (A) above, except that such limitation shall not apply to property tax
levies for preexisting lease-purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998,
for bonded indebtedness approved according to law and secured by a levy on
property, and for payments by a public airport to retire interest-free loans
from the Department of Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower
cost to the public airport. The Board of Trustees shall review and approve or
disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions subject to this
division (B). The Board of Trustees may approve all or a portion of the levy
request and may approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater than
that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the village may be exceeded as
provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to
village levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary
request for levy allocation to the Board of Trustees. The preliminary request
of the political subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a
majority vote of members present of the political subdivision’s governing body.
The failure of a political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall
preclude that political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS
77-3444 to exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the Board of Trustees and the governing body
of the political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The village may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above
by an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue to
the voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of Trustees and
delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the village; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election, as called for in the resolution or petition, which
is at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq. For
petitions filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May
1, 1998, the petition shall be in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628
through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the Board of Trustees to
terminate the authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth
fiscal year following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or
as provided in division (C)(9) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The Board of Trustees may pass not more than one resolution calling
for an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year.
Only one election may be held in any one calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions set forth in the resolution or petition and shall include the
language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the Board of Trustees shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   In lieu of the election procedures in this division (C), the
village may approve a levy in excess of the limits in division (A) above for a
period of one year at a meeting of the residents of the village, called after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village at
least 20 days prior to the meeting. At least 10% of the registered voters
residing in the village shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of taking
action to exceed the limits or final levy allocation. A record shall be made of
the registered voters residing in the political subdivision or village who are
present at the meeting. The method of voting at the meeting shall protect the
secrecy of the ballot. If a majority of the registered voters present at the
meeting vote in favor of exceeding the limits, a copy of the record of that
action shall be forwarded to the County Board prior to October 10, and the
County Board shall authorize a levy as approved by the residents for the year.
If a majority of the registered voters present at the meeting vote against
exceeding the limits, the limit shall not be exceeded and the village shall
have no power to call for an election under this division (C).
      (9)   (a)   The village may rescind or modify a previously approved
excess levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The Board of Trustees may call for the submission of the issue
to the voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board of
Trustees and delivering a copy of the resolution to the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the
village; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the village requesting
an election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the
village.
         (c)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years. The County Clerk or Election Commissioner
shall place the issue on the ballot at an election, as called for in the
resolution or petition, which is at least 31 days after receipt of the
resolution or petition, and the time of publication and providing a copy of the
notice of the election required in Neb. RS 32-802 shall be not later than 20
days prior to the election. The election shall be held pursuant to the Election
Act, Neb. RS 32-101 et seq.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 34.54 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law,
cause to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property of the village which the village
requires for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the village is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for
municipal purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same
person or a lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent
taxes. Such sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the
provision of law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all
respects be deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the
delinquent county taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 34.55 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax request for the
current year shall be no more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the village’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased
accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant
to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a resolution or ordinance
to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing
required in division (C) below. If the Board of Trustees seeks to set its
property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the
prior year, it may do so, subject to the limitations provided in the School
District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property
Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., after holding the public
hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance
that complies with division (D) below. If any county, village, school district,
or community college seeks to increase its property tax request by more than
the allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with
the requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions
(C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the village’s property tax
request for the current year shall be no more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the Board of Trustee’s rate of levy for the current year
shall be adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of
Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The Board of Trustees shall pass a
resolution or ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after
holding the public hearing required in division (C) below. If the Board of
Trustees seeks to set its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its
property tax request in the prior year, it may do so, subject to the
limitations provided in the School District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb.
RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401
et seq., after holding the public hearing required in division (C) below and by
passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with division (D) below. If any
county, village, school district, or community college seeks to increase its
property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such
political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of Neb. 77-1633 in
lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
village at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing. If the village’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the Board of Trustee’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a village’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the village’s property tax
request in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the village;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $        per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of village) proposes to adopt a property tax request
that will cause its tax rate to be $        per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of village) will exceed last
year’s by        percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the Board of Trustees in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (G)   Any tax levy which is not in compliance with this section and Neb. RS
77-1601 shall be construed as an unauthorized levy under Neb. RS 77-1606.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 34.56 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any county,
city, school district or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so, subject to the limitations provided in the School
District Property Tax Limitation Act, Neb. RS 79-3401 et seq., and the Property
Tax Growth Limitation Act, Neb. RS 13-3401 et seq., if the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) below; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision’s principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County Clerk or
his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated representative
of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on the political
subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by more than the
allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the political
subdivision’s budget. The presentation shall include:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request; and
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by       percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of
assessed value;
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by       percent; and
            5.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county’s website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 25,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
below to the county assessor by September 4. The county clerk shall notify the
county assessor of the date, time, and location of the joint public hearing no
later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each participating
political subdivision of the date, time, and location of the joint public
hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required to be included
on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) below to a printing service
designated by the County Board. The initial cost for printing the postcards
shall be paid from the county general fund. Such postcards shall be mailed at
least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The cost of creating
and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials and postage, shall
be charged proportionately to the political subdivisions participating in the
joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels in each participating
political subdivision. Each participating political subdivision shall also
maintain a prominently displayed and easily accessible link on the home page of
the political subdivision’s website to the political subdivision’s proposed
budget, except that this requirement shall not apply if the political
subdivision is a county with a population of less than 10,000 inhabitants, a
city with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants, or, for joint public
hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   The postcard sent under this subsection and the notice posted on
the county’s website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) above, and published
in the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the joint
public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision’s property tax request. The
postcard shall also contain the following information:
         (a)   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
         (b)   The name of the county that will hold the joint public hearing,
which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described in
division (C)(9)(a) above;
         (c)   The following statement: The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY
MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates;
         (d)   The parcel number for the property;
         (e)   The name of the property owner and the address of the property;
         (f)   The property’s assessed value in the previous tax year;
         (g)   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (h)   The property’s assessed value for the current tax year;
         (i)   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
         (j)   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
         (k)   The following statement: To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.
   (D)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above, the
governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision’s property tax
request. If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   The name of the political subdivision;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year's
total assessed value by        percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $       per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a property
tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $       per $100 of assessed
value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision) will
exceed last year’s by       percent; and
      (4)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the county clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   (1)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report
which shall include:
         (a)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
         (b)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
         (c)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
         (d)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
         (e)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
         (f)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint
public hearing.
      (2)   Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. RS 77-1633)
§ 34.57 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the village.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the village shall have the power to require any individual
whose primary residence, or person who owns a place of business, which is
within the limits of the village and who owns and operates a motor vehicle
within such limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the
payment of such fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle.
         (b)   All such fees which may be provided for under this section shall
be used exclusively for constructing, repairing, maintaining, or improving
streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or parts thereof or for the amortization
of bonded indebtedness when created for such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any village that collects the annual motor vehicle fee
authorized under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS
60-3,104 and, as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., when reporting information to the
Vehicle Title and Registration System; and
         (b)   Any village that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the village for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the village and does not own
and operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the village; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the village and the motor vehicle’s situs
under the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, Neb. RS 60-101 et seq., is
different from the place at which he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the village.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the County Treasurer of the county in which
the village is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor
Vehicle Registration Act, Neb. RS 60-301 et seq., are paid. These fees shall be
credited by the County Treasurer to the Road Fund of the village.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
52.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
53.   GARBAGE REGULATIONS
      
54.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Utility deposit for all utilities
   
50.02   Refunds from utility deposits
   
50.03   Unpaid accounts after termination of service
   
50.04   Delinquent utility bills
§ 50.01 UTILITY DEPOSIT FOR ALL UTILITIES.
   Utility deposits to be paid by water and sewer users (regardless of whether
the account is for all services) of the village, for all new accounts per
premises or in the event of a disconnection of services on an account and
before reconnection, to the Village Treasurer and shall be set by resolution or
ordinance.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 9-7-2023)
§ 50.02 REFUNDS FROM UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Residential/commercial. The deposit shall be refunded if there have
been no penalties for a period of three consecutive years incurred for late
payments. A request for refund must be made to the Clerk in writing.
   (B)   Terminating service. Deposits will be refunded at the request of the
consumer/customer to terminate service after all fees and obligations to the
village have been paid by the customer in full. The deposit shall be applied to
any outstanding bills or fees and excess refunded on the written request of the
consumer.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 9-7-2023)
§ 50.03 UNPAID ACCOUNTS AFTER TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   In the event a consumer/customer leaves a terminated account with an unpaid
balance after the deposit is applied, any future application for service shall
require the consumer/customer to pay a deposit in the amount two times the
regular deposit and also pay the balance of the unpaid utility (water, sewer
and/or electric) bill before service is connected. This shall apply to any
account in the consumer/customer’s name or in an entity the consumer/customer
has an ownership interest in (trust, company, partnership or corporation).
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 9-7-2023)
§ 50.04 DELINQUENT UTILITY BILLS.
   Utility bills shall be due on the twentieth of each month. Bills paid after
the twentieth of each month shall have a penalty charge added thereto in the
amount of 10% of the current bills outstanding amount.
(Ord. 2019-02, passed 9-9-2019)
CHAPTER 51: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Operations and funding
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Consumer’s application; hookup fee
   
51.04   Water contract
Regulations
   
51.15   Repairs and maintenance
   
51.16   New main installation
   
51.17   Installation procedure
   
51.18   Installation expense
   
51.19   Single premises
   
51.20   Restricted use
   
51.21   Fire hydrants
   
51.22   Pollution
   
51.23   Mandatory hookup
   
51.24   Water service contracts
   
51.25   Inspection
   
51.26   Destruction of property
   
51.27   Licensed plumber
   
51.28   Complaints
   
51.29   Fluoride
   
51.30   Commercial livestock watering operations
Fees and Rates
   
51.45   Fees and collections
   
51.46   Rates
   
51.47   Water bills
   
51.48   Lien
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 OPERATIONS AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The Chairperson and Board of Trustees hereby find and determine that
the village owns and operates a waterworks plant and water system in and for
the village, and said village hereby adopts the following as the rules and
regulations for services, and usage of the village may each year levy a tax
exceeding the maximum limit village waterworks plant and water system, which
will govern the operation of the system.
   (B)   For the purpose of defraying costs of the care, management and
maintenance of the village waterworks plant and water system, and the not
prescribed by state law on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal
property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. Revenue from
the said tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody
of the Village Treasurer.
   (C)   The Water Commissioner shall have the direct management and control of
the village water system and shall faithfully carry out the duties of his or
her office. The Water Commissioner shall have the authority to prepare rules
and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the water system
subject to the approval, supervision and review of the Board of Trustees. The
Board shall set the rate to be charged for services rendered by ordinance and
shall file a copy of the rates in the office of the Village Clerk for public
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 6-101)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and disbursing the same, in the village.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be disbursed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 6-102)
§ 51.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION; HOOKUP FEE.
   Every person or persons desiring a supply of water must make application
therefor to the Village Clerk upon the forms to be furnished for that purpose.
A hookup fee set by resolution for the privilege of hooking onto the water
system shall be paid by the applicant to the Village Treasurer. Water may not
be supplied to any house or private service pipe except upon the order of the
Water Commissioner. The Department shall not supply water service to any person
outside the corporate limits without special permission from the Board;
provided the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be
paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the village
to provide water service to non-residents.
(Prior Code, § 6-103) (Ord. 101, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 51.04 WATER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The village, through its water system, shall furnish water to persons
within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The village may furnish water
to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or
alley in which a village commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid, and
may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the village, as and when, according to law, the Board of
Trustees may approve. The rules, regulations and water rates hereinafter named
in this chapter shall be considered a part of every application hereafter made
for water service and shall be considered a part of the contract between every
consumer now or hereafter served.
   (B)   Without further formality, the making of application on the part of
any applicant or the use or consumption of water by any present consumer
thereof and the furnishing of water service to said consumer shall constitute a
contract between the consumer and the village, to which said contract both
parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said
contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the Board of Trustees may
hereafter adopt, the Water Commissioner or his or her agent may cut off or
disconnect the water service from the building or premises or place of such
violation. No further connection for water service to said building, premises
or place shall again be made, save or except by order of said Water
Commissioner or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 6-104)
REGULATIONS
§ 51.15 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The village shall repair or replace, as the case may be, supply pipe
between the commercial main and the stop box. The consumer, at his or her own
expense, shall replace and keep in repair all service pipe from the stop box to
the place of disbursement. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Water
Commissioner shall shut off water service until the leaks are repaired at the
expense of the consumer to the satisfaction of the Water Commissioner.
   (B)   All water meters shall be kept in repair by the village at the expense
of the village. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by
the village at the expense of the village; provided that if the customer
permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or destroyed through his
or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that the meter must be
repaired or replaced, the Water Commissioner shall bill and collect from the
customer the cost of such meter repair or replacement in the same manner as
water rent is collected. Permitting a water meter to be damaged or destroyed by
freezing shall always be considered negligence on the part of the customer.
   (C)   All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at his or her
expense any reasonable number of times; provided that if the test shows the
water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such test shall be
borne by the village. The village reserves the right to test any water service
meter at any time, and if said meter is found to be beyond repair, the village
shall have the right to place a new meter on the consumer’s water service
fixtures at village expense. Should a consumer’s meter fail to register
properly, the consumer shall be charged for water during the time the meter is
out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption during the same month of
the preceding year; provided that if no such basis for comparison exists, the
consumer shall be charged such amount as may be reasonablely fixed by the Water
Commissioner.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter, or
by any means or device to divert water from the service pipe so that the same
shall not pass through said meter, or while passing through said meter, to
cause the same to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 6-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16 NEW MAIN INSTALLATION.
   The village shall not be required to extend water service at its own expense
to any lot which does not abut on a street at a place where a commercial water
main is in existence at the time the service shall be applied for. The costs of
the extension of any water mains for service to a specific consumer shall be
borne by the water applicant. Where water mains are extended, the village may
furnish all labor and equipment necessary for the installation of water mains
and services, and shall charge the applicant the actual costs thereof. The
village shall be the owner of any water mains and shall maintain and replace
same at no cost to the applicant or user. Water mains are described as any two-
inch pipe or larger. Fire hydrants and valves pertaining to hydrants will be
paid for out of the Water Fund. All new additions to the water main system
shall be of four-inch cast iron or approved polyvinyl chloride (PVC) or larger
pipe and shall form connecting loops where possible to eliminate dead ends. The
manner in which connecting loops are accomplished shall be left to the
discretion of the Water Commissioner. In cases where the main construction
requires a connecting feeder main, the assessments to all the properties
benefitted shall include the cost of the feeder main.
(Prior Code, § 6-106)
§ 51.17 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose
of installing pipes or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner occasioning the least inconvenience to the
public and providing for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an excavation
made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a barricade.
After service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be
restored to good condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk
is left open or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Water
Commissioner shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all
expenses so incurred shall be charged to the consumer.
   (B)   All installations or repairs of pipes require two inspections by the
Water Commissioner. The first inspection shall be made when connections or
repairs are completed and before the pipes are covered. The second inspection
shall be made after the first work is completed and the service is restored. It
is the consumer’s responsibility to notify the Water Commissioner at the time
the work is ready for each inspection. All installation shall be done under the
supervision of and strictly in accordance with the terms established by the
Water Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 6-107)
§ 51.18 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The village shall pay the cost of tapping the main and providing fixtures
and labor up to and including the stop box at the lot line of the consumer. The
village shall furnish the meter, but it is the responsibility of the consumer
to pay for installation of said meter. No person other than the Water
Commissioner or his or her duly authorized agent shall tap the water main. The
consumer shall, at his or her own expense, bring water service from the stop
box and upon his or her own premises, and shall employ a plumber who shall
install water service to the place of disbursement. Non-residents shall pay
such tap fees and installation charges in such sums as the Water Commissioner
shall fix in each case, pursuant to resolution of the Board of Trustees. The
extension of commercial mains into unsupplied territory within the corporate
limits may be made by means of water extension districts.
(Prior Code, § 6-108)
§ 51.19 SINGLE PREMISES.
   No consumer shall supply water to other families or allow them to take water
from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a building shall any
person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a tap or connection
with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or attachment without
the written permission of the Water Commissioner. Each tenant or lessee shall
be responsible for all water service used in any space rented or leased by him
or her. Each separate apartment or other leased premises shall be deemed to be
a separate user of the village water supply, and shall be required to pay any
deposit and use fees as established by resolution and/or ordinance of the Board
of Trustees and placed on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.20 RESTRICTED USE.
   The Village Board or the Commissioner may order a reduction in the use of
water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water shortage
due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The village shall not be liable
for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any consumer
while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when there is a
shortage of water due to circumstances over which the village has no control.
(Prior Code, § 6-114)
§ 51.21 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire
Chief to open or attempt to open any of the hydrants and draw water from the
same, or in any manner to interfere with such hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 6-115) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.22 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Village Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.23 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All persons whose property abuts a water main that is now or hereafter may
be laid shall be required, upon notice of the Board, to hook up with the
village water system.
(Prior Code, § 6-117)
§ 51.24 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for water service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose of or move from the premises
where service is furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or
other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Commissioner, who shall
cause the water service to be shut off from the said premises. If the consumer
should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all water used
on the said premises until the Commissioner is otherwise advised of such
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 6-118)
§ 51.25 INSPECTION.
   The Commissioner or his or her duly authorized agent shall have free access,
at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and building to, or in
which, water is delivered, for the purpose of examining the pipes, fixtures and
other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is any disrepair or
unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 6-119)
§ 51.26 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Water Department. No person may deposit anything in a stop
box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of
the above-mentioned property without the written permission of the
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 6-120) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.27 LICENSED PLUMBER.
   No plumber shall do any work upon the service pipe or any other portion of
the plumbing system of any premises either within or without a building in an
amount of $50 or more without first presenting a valid permit from another
municipality in the state. All plumbing shall be done in the manner required by
the Village Plumbing Code or according to acceptable plumbing practices of the
area. The said plumber shall be at all times subject to the inspection and
approval of the Plumbing Inspector, and it shall be further unlawful to cover
or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work. It shall be
unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter to do any work upon any of the pipes or
appurtenances of the system of waterworks, or to make any connection with or
extension of the supply pipes of any consumer taking water from said system.
(Prior Code, § 6-121) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.28 COMPLAINTS.
   Any consumer feeling himself or herself aggrieved by reason of any
controversy with the Water Commissioner may appear before the Board of Trustees
and present his or her grievance. Any consumer who considers himself or herself
aggrieved by being required to pay the charge demanded for the use of water or
for the resumption of water service after the same shall have been shut off
shall pay such charge under protest, in which event the Village Utility
Collector shall write on the receipt given such consumer the words “Paid Under
Protest.” Such consumer may then present his or her verified claim in the
manner provided for presenting claims to the Board of Trustees for a refund of
the amount so paid under protest. Such claims shall then be considered by the
Board of Trustees in the same manner as other claims against the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-122)
§ 51.29 FLUORIDE.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water supply of the village until decided
by election of qualified voters.
(Prior Code, § 6-123) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.30 COMMERCIAL LIVESTOCK WATERING OPERATIONS.
   No commercial livestock operations shall be allowed within the limits of the
village unless such operation shall have first obtained permission from said
village.
(Prior Code, § 6-124) Penalty, see §
10.99
FEES AND RATES
§ 51.45 FEES AND COLLECTIONS.
   The Village Board has the power and authority to fix the rates to be paid by
consumers for the use of water from the Water Department. All such fees shall
be on file for public inspection at the office of the Village Clerk, who shall
bill the consumers and collect all money received by the village on the account
of the Water Department. He or she shall faithfully account for, and pay to the
Village Treasurer, all revenue collected by him or her, making receipt therefor
in duplicate, keeping one and filing the other in the Water Department’s
official records.
(Prior Code, § 6-109)
§ 51.46 RATES.
   The following is the water rate schedule for consumers of water from the
water works system of the village, based on a monthly rate set by ordinance,
adopted by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 6-110) (Ord. 2023-03, passed 9-7-2023)
§ 51.47 WATER BILLS.
   (A)   Water fees shall be due and payable at the office of the Village
Clerk. The Water Commissioner shall read, or cause to be read, water meters
monthly during which service is used. It shall be the duty of the consumers to
present themselves monthly at the office of the Village Utility Collector to
pay their bills in net cash. The Water Commissioner shall direct the Village
Utility Collector to charge and collect from each consumer for the amount of
water consumed since the last reading, together with any other charges,
properly itemized, due the Water Department.
   (B)   Bills shall be due on the twentieth day of each month. Bills paid
after the twentieth day of each month shall have a penalty charge added thereto
in the amount of 10% of the current bill’s outstanding amount. Upon being
deemed delinquent as herein defined, the Village Utility Collector shall give
written notice to the consumer of such delinquency and shall demand payment
immediately. In the event the bill is not paid by the end of the month, the
Village Utility Collector shall notify the Water Commissioner. 
(Prior Code, § 6-111) (Ord. 2019-02, passed 9-9-2019)
   (C)   In the case of delinquency, notice shall be provided as set forth
herein.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         DOMESTIC SUBSCRIBER. Shall not include municipalities, cities,
villages, political subdivisions, companies, corporations, partnerships,
limited liability companies or businesses of any nature.
(Neb. RS 70-1602)
      (2)   No utility owned and operated by the village furnishing water or
natural gas at retail in the village shall discontinue service to any domestic
subscriber for nonpayment of any past-due account unless the utility first
gives written notice by mail to any subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated at least seven days prior to termination. As to any subscriber who
has previously been identified as a welfare recipient to the utility by the
Department of Health and Human Services, the notice shall be by certified mail
and notice of such proposed termination shall be given to the Department.
(Neb. RS 70-1603)
      (3)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic subscriber
by a utility owned and operated by the village, the domestic subscriber, upon
request, shall be provided a conference with the Board of Trustees. A utility
owned and operated by the village shall not be subject to Neb. RS 70-1608 to
70-1614, but the Board of Trustees shall establish a procedure to resolve
utility bills when a conference is requested by a domestic subscriber. The
procedure shall be in writing and a copy of such procedure shall be furnished
upon the request of any domestic subscriber. The Board of Trustees shall notify
the domestic subscriber of the time, place and date scheduled for such
conference.
(Neb. RS 70-1604)
      (4)   The utility shall establish a third-party notice procedure for the
notification of a designated third party of any proposed discontinuance of
service and shall advise its subscribers, including new subscribers, of the
availability of such procedures.
(Neb. RS 70-1607)
      (5)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions
of services made necessary by the utility for reasons of repair or maintenance
or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of the general
public.
(Neb. RS 70-1615)
§ 51.48 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a consumer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the village for water service furnished, such amount due, together
with any rents and charges in arrears, shall be considered a delinquent water
rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for which the
same was used. The Village Clerk shall notify in writing, or cause to be
notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents whenever their
tenants or lessees are 60 days or more delinquent in the payment of water rent.
It shall be the duty of the Water Commissioner during the first month of each
year to report to the Board of Trustees a list of all unpaid accounts due for
water, together with a description of the premises upon which the same was
used. The report shall be examined, and if approved by the Board of Trustees,
shall be certified by the Village Clerk to the County Clerk to be collected as
a special tax in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6-112)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operation and funding
   
52.03   Service to non-residents
   
52.04   Sewer contract
   
52.05   Service contracts
   
52.06   Surcharge
   
52.07   User charge review
   
52.08   User notification
   
52.09   Sewer Maintenance Fund
   
52.10   Classification
   
52.11   Sewer use fees; collection of sewer fees
   
52.12   Compliance with chapter
   
52.13   Notice and liability
   
52.14   Municipal powers
Regulations
   
52.25   Public sewers required
   
52.26   Private sewage disposal
   
52.27   Building sewer installation
   
52.28   Installation procedure
   
52.29   Prohibited discharges; storm water, surface water, groundwater, cooling
water and process water
   
52.30   Hazardous and prohibited discharges
   
52.31   Discharge of hazardous and prohibited substances; rejection,
pretreatment, control of discharge rate or use fee surcharge
   
52.32   Grease, oil and sand interceptors; when required
   
52.33   Preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities; maintenance by
owner
   
52.34   Control manholes/sampling stations
   
52.35   Sanitary supply system; destruction of property
   
52.36   Hazardous and prohibited substances; special exceptions permitted; use
fee surcharge
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOLOGICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical
oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at
20ºC, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The part of a building drainage system extending from the
building drain to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. Sewage not exceeding maximum tolerance of contamination of
300 milligrams per liter BOD or 350 milligrams per liter of suspended solids.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES. Receptacles intended to receive and discharge water,
liquid or water carried wastes into the sewer system with which they are
connected.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle larger than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in
diameter.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe of conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface drainage, but excludes
sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the village or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
inversion in, water, sewage or other liquids, and are removable by filtering.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Weston.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 6-301)
§ 52.02 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The village owns the sewer system and operates the same through the
Utilities Superintendent. The village, for the purpose of defraying the cost of
the operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) of its sewer system, may
establish a user charge system based on actual use and revise the charges, if
necessary, to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportional distribution of OM&R costs among users
and user classes;
      (2)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rate
accordingly.
   (B)   The revenue from the said user charge system based on actual use shall
be known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-302)
§ 52.03 SERVICE TO NON-RESIDENTS.
   The village, by resolution of its Board of Trustees, shall have authority to
contract with any person to sell sewer service beyond its corporate limits,
when in the judgment of the Board of Trustees it is beneficial for the village
to do so. The village shall not incur any cost or expense beyond its commercial
mains in providing the means of such service. Such service shall not be
instituted nor continued except to the extent that the facilities of the
village for supplying sewer service are in excess of the requirements of the
inhabitants of the village. Sewer service will be furnished beyond its
corporate limits, subject to the above conditions, at such rates as the Board
of Trustees shall from time to time by resolution fix.
(Prior Code, § 6-303)
§ 52.04 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The village, through its Sewer Department, shall furnish sewer service
to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main is now or may hereafter be laid. The village may also
furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the village, as and when, according to law, the Village
Board may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and sewer rental rates
hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every customer now or hereafter served.
   (B)   Without further formality, the making of the application on the part
of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall
constitute a contract between the customer and the village to which said
contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate any of the
provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
Board may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent may
cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or premise of such
violation. No further connection for sewer service to said building or premises
shall again be made save or except by order of the Superintendent or his or her
agent.
(Prior Code, § 6-304)
§ 52.05 SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if the said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he
or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent, who shall cause the
sewer service to be shut off from the said premises. If the customer should
fail to give notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until
the official in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 6-305)
§ 52.06 SURCHARGE.
   In addition to other elements of the total user charge system in §§
52.31 and
52.32 , the ordinance on file with the Village Clerk shall provide for the
following surcharges:
   (A)   A high strength waste surcharge established for pollutant levels (BOD,
SS and the like) which exceed the levels contained in the domestic strength
wastewater of the service area. The surcharge shall be expressed as a formula
with a per unit charge established for each applicable pollutant (see Appendix
B of 40 C.F.R. § 35.900); and
   (B)   The authority and intent shall be established to require each user
discharging any toxic pollutants to pay the increased costs of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the treatment works resulting from such discharge.
(Prior Code, § 6-306)
§ 52.07 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The Village Board shall review, at least annually, the user charge system
and revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
   (B)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 6-307)
§ 52.08 USER NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified, at least annually, with a regular bill, of the
rate and that portion of the user charges which are attributable to wastewater
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 6-308)
§ 52.09 SEWER MAINTENANCE FUND.
   The operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) portion of the total sewer
user charges shall be deposited in a non-lapsing Sewer Maintenance Fund, or set
of funds, and the revenues so deposited will be used only for the purposes of
defraying the OM&R costs of the treatment works. Funds transferred from the
other revenue sources to meet temporary shortages in the OM&R accounts shall be
refunded following an appropriate adjustment in the user charges for OM&R. The
Sewer Maintenance Fund will have a minimum of two primary accounts:
   (A)   An O&M account with provision for carry-over of the fiscal year end
balance to meet the overall O&M costs in the subsequent fiscal year; and
   (B)   A non-lapsing sinking fund for replacement costs which accrues funds
through deposits made at least annually from OM&R use charge revenues. The
deposits shall provide adequate revenues to meet the replacement needs of the
treatment works over its service life and shall be used for no other purpose.
For purposes of maintaining said fund on a perpetual basis, the village shall
budget a sum of money not less than 20% of its annual projected operation and
maintenance budget for the sewer treatment works. Fiscal year end balances in
the non-lapsing sinking fund will be carried over to the same fund in the
subsequent year.
(Prior Code, § 6-309)
§ 52.10 CLASSIFICATION.
   The Village Board may classify the customers of the Sewer Department for the
purpose of rental fees; provided that such classifications are reasonable and
do not discriminate unlawfully against any consumer or group of consumers. The
classification must be approved by the Environmental Protection Agency,
relative to the user charge grant condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-310)
§ 52.11 SEWER USE FEES; COLLECTION OF SEWER USE FEES.
   (A)   The residential and commercial rates are set by ordinance.
   (B)   Sewer use bills shall be due and payable at the same time and in the
same manner as water bills are due and payable. All penalties and procedures
concerning delinquent accounts with the Water Department shall also be
applicable to delinquent accounts with the Sewer Department and collection of
sewer use fees.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 9-7-2023)
§ 52.12 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   (A)   Inspections generally. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing of the system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representatives
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers,
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 6-340)
   (B)   Inspections; injury liability. While performing the necessary work on
private properties referred to in division (A) above, the Superintendent or
duly authorized employees of the village shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the village employees. The village shall
indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by village
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.34(A).
(Prior Code, § 6-341)
   (C)   Inspections; easements. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the village holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 6-342)
§ 52.13 NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
52.35 shall be served by the village with notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a written a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the
village by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 6-343)
§ 52.14 MUNICIPAL POWERS.
   The village has the legal authority to enforce its system of user charges,
industrial cost recovery charge and sewer use regulations on all existing or
future users of the system whether located inside or outside the village
limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-344)
REGULATIONS
§ 52.25 PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unlawful deposit of wastes. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the village or within one mile of the corporate limits
thereof or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 6-312)
   (B)   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage. It shall be unlawful to
discharge to any natural outlet within the village or within one mile of the
corporate limits thereof, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said
village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-313)
   (C)   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited. Except as hereinafter
provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
(Prior Code, § 6-314)
   (D)   Mandatory hookup. The owners of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the village are hereby required at their expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so; provided that said public sewer is
within 100 feet of the property line of such houses, buildings or properties.
(Prior Code, § 6-315) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.26 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   When applicable.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under
the provisions of §
52.25(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
52.25(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 6-316)
   (B)   Permit required. Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the village, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-317)
   (C)   Permit; when effective; inspections. A permit for a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-318)
   (D)   Specifications. The type, capacities, location and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State
Department of Public Health. No permit shall be issued for a private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area
of the lot is less than 10,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 6-319)
   (E)   Maintenance. The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-320)
   (F)   Additional requirements. No statement contained in divisions (A)
through (E) above shall be construed to interfere with any additional
requirements that maybe imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-321)
§ 52.27 BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Permit required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-322)
   (B)   Building sewer installation; classification; permit application; fee.
There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential and
commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on
a special form furnished by the village. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee,
set by resolution of the village for each class of permit and kept on file in
the office of the Village Clerk, shall be paid to the village at the time the
application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 6-323)
   (C)   Expense. All costs and expenses incident to the installation and
connection of any building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly
be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 6-324)
   (D)   Single premises. A separate and independent building sewer shall be
provided for every building, except that where one building stands at the rear
of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer; however, the
village does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for
damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
(Prior Code, § 6-325)
   (E)   Use of existing sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found to meet all requirements of this
chapter on examination and testing by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-326)
   (F)   Construction codes.
      (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedure set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M.
and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement flood. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
      (3)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified
by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 6-327)
   (G)   Unlawful connection. No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, interior and exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer
unless such connection is approved by the Superintendent for purposes of
disposal of polluted surface drainage; provided, if responsibility can be
determined, the party responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage
into the public sanitary sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost
of treating the polluted drainage.
(Prior Code, § 6-328)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be removed
and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the
public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an excavation
made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a barricade, and
during the night, without warning lights. After any house sewer is laid, the
public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the excavation
in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a period of 24
hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to finish or
correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to the owner,
occupant or lessee of the property. All installations of any building sewer
require an inspection by the Utilities Superintendent, the Building Inspector
or a competent plumber when the connections are completed and before the
building sewer is covered. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for inspection. All installation
shall be done under supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations and specifications prescribed for such installation by the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-329)
§ 52.29 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING
WATER AND PROCESS WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the village for such
costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the approval of
the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-330) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.30 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances; preliminary
treatment. 
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; or
         (e)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300
parts per million by weight, containing more than 350 parts per million by
weight of suspended solids, having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the
average sewage flow of the village or a chlorine requirement greater than
demanded by normal sewage as evaluated by the village’s consulting engineer
shall be subject to the review of the Superintendent.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
         (b)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
         (d)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
      (3)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 6-331)
   (B)   Specific prohibitions as determined by Superintendent. No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged the following described substances,
materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the
Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances
prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF (65ºC);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32ºF and 150ºF (0ºC and
65ºC);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths
horsepower (.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
SLUGS as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 6-332) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.31 DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; REJECTION,
PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE OR USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.30(B), and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
52.36.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 6-333)
§ 52.32 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by personnel of the owner(s) must be performed by currently licensed
waste disposal firms.
(Prior Code, § 6-334)
§ 52.33 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES; MAINTENANCE BY
OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 6-335)
§ 52.34 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS.
   (A)   When required; installation and maintenance. When required by the
Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial waste shall install a suitable control manhole together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 6-336)
   (B)   Sampling stations; method. All measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter
shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public
Health Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 6-337)
§ 52.35 SANITARY SUPPLY SYSTEM; DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person or persons
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 6-338) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.36 HAZARDOUS AND PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE
FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial
concern.
(Prior Code, § 6-339)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE REGULATIONS
Section
   
53.01   Waste container required
   
53.02   Pickup and disposal by solid waste entity
   
53.03   Garbage collection; fees
   
53.04   Rates and collection times; subject to amendment
§ 53.01 WASTE CONTAINER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any manner on public or private property within the village or in
any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any garbage, refuse or solid
waste, except within a village approved waste container.
(Prior Code, § 6-401) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.02 PICKUP AND DISPOSAL BY SOLID WASTE ENTITY.
   The village shall contract with an authorized solid waste disposal entity
for the pickup and disposal of solid waste generated within the village limits
and jurisdiction of said village.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
§ 53.03 GARBAGE COLLECTION; FEES.
   The owners, occupants or lessees of all occupied houses, buildings or
property within the village shall deposit all solid waste generated by such
owners in waste containers approved by the Village Board, and the garbage
contractor contracted by the Village Board shall, not less than once a week,
collect such solid waste and dispose of the same in a landfill approved by the
state. All such customers shall be assessed a collection fee of 110% of the
cost charged by the garbage contractor per month for such collection service.
(Prior Code, § 6-403)
§ 53.04 RATES AND COLLECTION TIMES; SUBJECT TO AMENDMENT.
   The rates provided for herein and the times for collection may be amended
from time to time by resolution of the Village Board. Nothing herein shall be
construed to obligate the village to provide such pickup and disposal services
to non-residents of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-404)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM REGULATIONS
Section
   
54.01   Consumer’s contract
   
54.02   Rates and charges
   
54.03   Application for electric service required; connections, supply wires
and meters furnished by village; service deposit required of consumer; refund;
meter tampering; stealing current
   
54.04   Meters
   
54.05   Service Deposit Fund
   
54.06   Service beyond corporate limits
   
54.07   Discrimination
   
54.08   Change or connection; by whom made; disconnection of service
   
54.09   Access to premises
   
54.10   Service contracts not transferable
   
54.11   Charge for service when meter out of repair
   
54.12   Village not a guarantor of delivery of electric current over its lines
   
54.13   Current; how measured; meters, repair of, when and how tested;
replacement of meters; meters property of the village
   
54.14   Trimming trees near lines of distribution system
   
54.15   Overhanging branches
   
54.16   Municipal Light Fund
   
54.17   Property of electric distribution system not to be destroyed
   
54.18   Apparatus; where and how installed
   
54.19   Discontinuance of service
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 CONSUMER’S CONTRACT.
   The village shall furnish electric current for light, heating, cooking and
power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any supply wire of the
distribution system of the village. The rules and regulations hereinafter named
shall be considered a part of the contract with every person, company or
corporation who is supplied with electric service through the electric
distribution system of the village, and every such person, company or
corporation by taking electric service therefrom shall be considered and held
to consent to be bound thereby. Whenever any of such rules and regulations or
such other rules or regulations the Village Board may hereafter adopt are
violated, the electric current shall be cut off from the building or place of
such violation, even though two or more parties may receive current through the
same line, and shall not be turned on again except by order of the Village
Board and on payment of the fee for shutting off and turning on, and upon such
other terms as said Village Board shall determine and upon a satisfactory
understanding with the party that no further cause for complaint shall arise.
In case of violation, the Village Board shall have the right to declare any
payment made for electric current by the person committing such violation
forfeited and the same shall thereupon be forfeited.
(Prior Code, § 6-501)
§ 54.02 RATES AND CHARGES.
   Electrical rates to be set pursuant to the interlocal agreement with the
City of Wahoo signed September 30, 2024.
(Prior Code, § 6-502) (Ord. 2019-05, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 54.03 APPLICATION FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE REQUIRED; CONNECTIONS, SUPPLY WIRES
AND METERS FURNISHED BY VILLAGE; SERVICE DEPOSIT REQUIRED OF CONSUMER; REFUND;
METER TAMPERING; STEALING CURRENT.
   (A)   Every person desiring a supply of electric current must make
application therefor to the Village Board at the Village Clerk’s office upon
blanks to be furnished for that purpose. The application must state truly and
fully all the uses to which said electric current is to be applied, and no
additional use will be allowed except by permission of the Village Board. When
such application shall be made for electric service, the village will run, or
cause to be run, supply wire or wires to buildings of such customer, if the
same are located on premises abutting the distribution system of the village.
The cost of such installation shall be paid fully by the customer from the main
line pole to the house. When installed, all such supply wires shall be
considered the property of the village. Not more than one house or building
shall be supplied from one connection except by special permission of the
Village Board.
   (B)   (1)   Every application submitted by persons not owners of the
property to be supplied with electricity shall be accompanied with a good
credit reference from their prior electrical supplier and a refundable deposit,
as follows:
         (a)   Not all-electric residential property: $75;
         (b)   All-electric residential property: $100;
         (c)   Not all-electric commercial property: $100; and
         (d)   All-electric commercial property: $150.
      (2)   In the event that a good credit reference is not supplied, the
above amounts shall be doubled. Such deposits shall be maintained by the
Village Clerk in a special account. Upon the applicant vacating the premises or
upon his or her purchase of the premises, the deposit shall be returned so long
as all outstanding utility bills owed the village are paid in full. The Village
Clerk shall be and hereby is authorized to offset any deposit made against any
unpaid utility bill due in the event of the renters vacating the premises
serviced. The Village Clerk shall maintain a special book of accounts to record
the deposit transactions made.
   (C)   All meters required for providing an applicant with electric service
shall be furnished and set in place by the village and shall remain the
property of the village.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to employ any scheme, device or
contrivance for the purpose of evading the proper service and registration of
any meter; or to employ any scheme, device or contrivance for the purpose of
evading the proper service and registration of any meter; or to employ any
scheme or device whereby he or she may obtain current which does not pass
through the meter furnished him or her by the village. Finding any lighting
apparatus attached to a power meter or any device in or near any meter which
causes the same to register incorrectly shall be prima facie evidence of the
intent of the occupier of said premises or of said customer to convert electric
current to his or her own use, which is hereby declared unlawful, and the
person convicted of violation of the same shall be punished as hereinafter
provided; and, if it shall appear to the Village Board that any light or power
meter shall have been tapped or tampered with, it is hereby empowered to
install or cause to be installed, at the customer’s expense, a meter installed
in steel conduit mechanically sealed in a closed meter box accessible only to
village employees.
(Prior Code, § 6-503) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04 METERS.
   All meters shall be read monthly and the billings shall be made monthly. All
bills shall be paid at the Village Clerk’s office. If the customer shall
neglect or refuse to pay his or her bill on or before the twentieth day after
the billing date, the same shall be considered delinquent and the Village Works
may discontinue and disconnect service until all amounts in arrears are paid in
full, together with the fee of $25 for resumption of said service. Such
disconnect procedure shall comply with the provisions of §
54.19.
(Prior Code, § 6-504)
§ 54.05 SERVICE DEPOSIT FUND.
   The service deposit required for electrical service shall be promptly paid
upon demand by all customers of the electrical system. From the said deposit
shall be deducted all delinquent electrical charges. The service deposit shall
be collected by the Village Clerk who shall keep the said fees in a trust fund
for the customers of the electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 6-505)
§ 54.06 SERVICE BEYOND CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The village shall have the power and authority to contract with any person,
persons, association or corporation, including other municipalities, to sell
current for heat and power purposes beyond its corporate limits when, in the
judgment of the Village Board, it is beneficial to the village to do so, and
the cost or expense of extending the village’s lines beyond its border to serve
farmers and others shall be paid either by the customer or, subject to the
limitations contained in Neb. RS 17-904, as now existing or hereafter amended,
out of net earnings of the plant or system. For furnishing electric service
beyond its corporate limits, subject to the above conditions, the village may
establish rates with such person, persons, association or corporation,
including municipalities, without regard to the rates established for resident
customers; provided, however, that the rate made shall be uniform so far as it
affects the users of equal amounts of current under similar conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6-506)
§ 54.07 DISCRIMINATION.
   No electric current shall be furnished to any customer under any other rate
than as provided in this chapter, and there shall be no discrimination in rates
as between customers using equal amounts of current for the same purpose under
the same conditions.
(Prior Code, § 6-507)
§ 54.08 CHANGE OR CONNECTION; BY WHOM MADE; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Only public power employees, electricians licensed by the state or
homeowners working on their own premises shall connect or make any changes in
the switches, motors, meters, wire or wiring, or any electrical apparatus of
any description where said current is used, or in any way interfere with or
injure the same, or any connection, when the same are connected with the supply
wires of the electric distribution system of this village. The village reserves
the right to cut off or disconnect the supply of electric current to any
customer without any preliminary notice for any violation of said rules and
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 6-508)
§ 54.09 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The authorized agent or agents of the village shall have access at all
reasonable hours to premises in which electric light, power or current is being
used to determine if it is being carried, distributed and used in the proper
manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-509)
§ 54.10 SERVICE CONTRACTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Contracts for electric service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall sell, dispose of or move from the premises
where service is furnished, he or she shall at once so inform the Village
Clerk, who shall cause the electric current to be shut off from said premises.
If such customer shall fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for
all electric current used on said premises until the Electric Superintendent is
otherwise advised of such change.
(Prior Code, § 6-510)
§ 54.11 CHARGE FOR SERVICE WHEN METER OUT OF REPAIR.
   Should a customer’s meter be out of repair or fail to register properly, the
customer will be charged for electric current during the time such meter is out
of order or repair on the basis of monthly consumption during the same month of
the preceding year; provided, however, if no such basis for comparison exists,
then such customer shall pay such amount as reasonably fixed by the Electric
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 6-511)
§ 54.12 VILLAGE NOT A GUARANTOR OF DELIVERY OF ELECTRIC CURRENT OVER ITS LINES.
   The village does not guarantee the delivery of electric current over the
lines of its said distribution system at any time, to any person, except when
its power and connections are in good working order, and it has sufficient
power, current, equipment and machinery so to do. The village expressly
reserves the right to disconnect or discontinue such service for any of the
following reasons: for repairs necessary to be made on any part of its plant,
power house, equipment system or distribution system; for nonpayment of bills
when due; for fraudulent representations in regard to the consumption of
current for light, cooking, heat and power; for the protection of persons or
property; for violation of any of the rules and requirements of this chapter or
the subsequent amendments thereto. The village shall use due and reasonable
diligence to provide and supply uninterrupted service to customers, but shall
not be liable for damages resulting from interruption of service due to causes
over which the village has no control, and the village expressly reserves the
right to discontinue or disconnect a customer’s service without any preliminary
notice, for reasons set forth herein or for any other reason.
(Prior Code, § 6-512)
§ 54.13 CURRENT; HOW MEASURED; METERS, REPAIR OF, WHEN AND HOW TESTED;
REPLACEMENT OF METERS; METERS PROPERTY OF THE VILLAGE.
   All electric current furnished customers by the electric distribution system
of the village shall be measured by meter, which shall be the property of,
furnished and set by the village. No person except an authorized agent of the
village shall be allowed to set meters or make connections to the village’s
electric distribution system. The village will keep all meters clean and in
repair at the expense of the village. The owner or tenant of premises where a
meter is located shall provide ready and convenient access to the meter so that
it may easily be examined and read by authorized agents of the village. Any
customer of current from the electric distribution system of the village shall
have the right to request the said Electric Superintendent to test said meter
as requested and any other meter which needs to be tested. All meters now in
use or hereafter installed shall be and remain the property of the village.
When the meter is entirely worn out and replacement is necessary, a new meter
will be furnished and set by the village for such customer at the expense of
the village; provided, however, in cases where meter repair or meter
replacements are made necessary on account of the willful neglect or
recklessness on the part of customer, then said village shall require the
customer to pay for installing new meter or making the repairs and collect same
as for light service furnished.
(Prior Code, § 6-513) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.14 TRIMMING TREES NEAR LINES OF DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof, or to fell
same, in close proximity to the lines of the electric distribution system of
the village, and which said work might cause injury or damage to the lines
thereof, shall before doing the said work, give reasonable written notice to
the Village Clerk, and shall secure a permit in writing from the Village Board
or its designated agent so to do, and shall seek the assistance of the village
to do such work so that electric service shall not be interrupted or damage
done to the lines or property of the village. Any person felling or removing
such trees or branches of trees resulting in the interruption of electric
service or damage to the lines or property of the village, without having given
notice to the village as aforesaid, and without having received said permit in
writing from the village so to do, as aforesaid, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-514) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.15 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to protect the lines or property of the
electric distribution system of this village, the village shall have the right
to remove and cut away in a careful and prudent manner overhanging branches or
limbs of trees, so that its lines shall be free and open. Such right, privilege
and authority may also be exercised by the village whenever the Village Board
at any regular or special meeting passes a resolution stating its intention to
so cut or remove such obstructions to the lines and services of its electric
distribution system.
(Prior Code, § 6-515)
§ 54.16 MUNICIPAL LIGHT FUND.
   The funds received by the village arising out of income from the electric
distribution system shall be kept by said Treasurer in a separate fund known as
the Light Fund, which shall be allocated for accounting and other purposes as
the Village Board shall from time to time direct.
(Prior Code, § 6-516)
§ 54.17 PROPERTY OF ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM NOT TO BE DESTROYED.
   No person shall willfully or carelessly break, injure or deface, interfere
with or disturb any building, machinery, apparatus, insulator, transformer,
fixture, attachment, appurtenance, electrolier, right-of-way pole, suspension
lights or light globes in the street lighting system of the electric light
plant or of the distribution system of the village, and if any person shall do
any of the acts herein prohibited, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, § 6-517) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.18 APPARATUS; WHERE AND HOW INSTALLED.
   All poles, overhead wires, transformers and other aerial construction,
equipment or apparatus shall hereafter be erected in a substantial manner and
shall be placed in the alleys of the village in so far as it is practical to so
do. All wires shall be erected and maintained at such height as shall interfere
as little as possible with other wires or business interests and all such wires
shall be placed so as not to interfere with the common, ordinary public travel
upon said streets and alleys.
(Prior Code, § 6-518)
§ 54.19 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The village shall not discontinue service to any domestic customer for
non-payment of any due account unless the village first gives written notice by
mail to such customer whose service is proposed to be terminated at least seven
days prior to termination. In reference to any customer who has previously been
identified to the utility as a welfare recipient by the County Department of
Social Services, such notice shall be by certified mail and notice of such
proposed termination shall be given to said Department of Social Services.
   (B)   Prior to the discontinuance of service to any domestic customer upon
any controversy with a billing statement from the village, the customer, upon
request, shall be provided a conference with the Board of Trustees. The Board
of Trustees shall notify the customer of the time, place and date scheduled for
such conference. At such conference, the customer shall have the right to fully
explain his or her position in regard to the disputed bill. The Village Board,
at the conclusion of such conference, shall either affirm the bill or adjust
the same as the facts may require.
(Prior Code, § 6-519)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or any of the rules and restrictions for the government of
customers of light, heat or power as hereafter promulgated by the Village
Board, shall upon conviction thereof, in addition to the forfeitures,
liabilities, stipulations and reservations contained in this chapter, be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in a sum not to exceed $100 and pay the costs
of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 6-520)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Truck routes
   
70.03   Position of vehicle on roadway
   
70.04   Driving in sidewalk space
   
70.05   Stops; mandatory
   
70.06   Stop signs
   
70.07   Signs and signals
   
70.08   Speed zones
   
70.09   Speed near schools
   
70.10   Quiet zones; unnecessary noise
   
70.11   Unnecessary stopping
   
70.12   Driving abreast
   
70.13   Following; distance
   
70.14   Riding outside vehicle
   
70.15   Funeral processions
   
70.16   Glass; pointed objects
   
70.17   Signs; defacing or interfering with
   
70.18   Coasting prohibited
   
70.19   Emergency regulations
   
70.20   Police
   
70.21   Muffler
   
70.22   Loads
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations shall be construed as defined in the state statues, as now
existing or as hereafter amended, unless the context otherwise requires; and,
if not so defined, the common meaning of such words and phrases shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
§ 70.02 TRUCK ROUTES.
   The Village Board may, by resolution, designate certain streets in the
village restricting traffic for vehicles weighing in excess of ten tons, and it
shall be unlawful for persons operating such vehicles to travel on other
streets than those designated for such vehicles unless to pick up or deliver
goods, wares or merchandise, and in that event, the operator of such vehicle
shall return to such truck routes as soon as possible in traveling through or
about the village. The Village Board shall cause notices to be posted or shall
erect signs indicating the streets so designated as restricted routes.
(Prior Code, § 3-102) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POSITION OF VEHICLE ON ROADWAY.
   Upon all streets and highways of sufficient width, the driver of a vehicle
shall drive the same on the right half of the roadway. In passing or meeting
other vehicles, drivers shall other at least one-half of the main traveled
portion roadway.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
§ 70.04 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle, including motorcycles or scooters, shall be driven on any
sidewalk or within any sidewalk space, except a permanent or temporary
driveway.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 STOPS; MANDATORY.
   All vehicles, before crossing a sidewalk or emerging from a garage, alley,
filling station or other place, shall come to a complete stop, and after giving
sufficient warning, shall proceed slowly and with extreme caution while
crossing such sidewalk or leaving such garage, alley, filling station or other
place. The term SLOWLY shall be construed to mean such rate of speed as is
reasonable and proper under the circumstances and the condition of the street
and traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
§ 70.06 STOP SIGNS.
   Every person operating any vehicle shall, upon approaching any stop sign
erected in accordance with ordinances prescribed heretofore, cause such vehicle
to come to a complete stop with the front wheels of said vehicle parallel with
said stop sign.
(Prior Code, § 3-113)
§ 70.07 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   The Village Board may, by resolution, provide for the placing of stop signs,
restricted parking or other signs, signals, standards or mechanical devices in
any street or alley for the purpose of regulating or prohibiting traffic and
parking thereon. Such resolution shall describe the portion of the street or
alley wherein traffic is to be regulated or prohibited; the regulation or
prohibition; the location where such sign, signal, standard or mechanical
device shall be placed; and the hours when such regulation or prohibition shall
be effective. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with such regulation or prohibition. The placement of such regulatory
sign shall be prima facie evidence of the restricting resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 SPEED ZONES.
   Unless otherwise designated by the Board of Trustees, no person shall drive
a vehicle on the streets of the village at a speed in excess of the following
maximum limits: 25 mph in any residential or commercial district; and 20 mph in
any business district.
(Prior Code, § 3-115) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 SPEED NEAR SCHOOLS.
    It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing premises
on which school buildings are located and which are used for school purposes,
during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school during
the opening or closing hours, to drive such vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past such premises, and such driver shall stop at all stop
signs located at or near such school premises. It shall be unlawful for such
driver to make a u-turn at any intersection where such stop signs are located
at or near such school premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-116) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 QUIET ZONES; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   All streets or portions thereof lying within 300 feet of any hospital,
nursing home or school which have been declared to be quiet zones by the
Village Board shall be respected as such by all drivers. No driver of any
vehicle shall, within such zones, make any unnecessary noise or sound the horn
or other warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency. It shall be
unlawful for any person in any part of said village to make, or cause to be
made, any unnecessary noise with any signal device, or to use the same except
as a road signal.
(Prior Code, § 3-117) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic-control devices and
regulations, or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 3-122) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing or when
traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided motorcycles may be driven
no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 3-123) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 FOLLOWING; DISTANCE.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of the vehicles and
the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
§ 70.14 RIDING OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall ride or permit another person to ride on the running board,
hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles or Fire Department vehicles when
responding to emergency calls or orders, ambulances responding to emergency
calls or vehicles carrying United States mail, shall be driven through a
funeral possession or cortege except with the permission of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-126) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass or other articles made of or containing
glass, and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass or the person responsible
for such breakage shall at once remove or cause the same to be removed from the
street.
(Prior Code, § 3-127) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 SIGNS; DEFACING OR INTERFERING WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully deface, injure, remove,
obstruct or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 COASTING PROHIBITED.
   The driver of a motor vehicle, when traveling upon a downgrade upon any
street, shall not coast with the gears of the vehicle in neutral.
(Prior Code, § 3-130) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Village Chairperson is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary
regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 3-131)
§ 70.20 POLICE.
   (A)   Enforcement. The village police or Sheriff’s Department are hereby
authorized, empowered and ordered to exercise all powers and duties with
relation to the management of street traffic and, in the interest of public
safety, health and convenience, to direct, control, stop, restrict, regulate,
temporarily divert or exclude the movement of pedestrian, animal and vehicular
traffic of every kind in streets, parks and on bridges. The driver of any
vehicle shall stop upon the signal of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-132)
   (B)   Refusal to obey. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail
to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-133)
   (C)   Traffic officers. The Village Board or the village police may at any
time detail officers, to be known as traffic officers, at street intersections.
All traffic officers shall be vested with the authority to regulate and control
traffic at the intersections to which they are assigned. It shall be their duty
to direct the movement of traffic and prevent congestion and accidents. It
shall be unlawful for any person to violate any order or signal of any such
traffic officer, notwithstanding the directive of a stop sign or signal device
which may have been placed at any such intersection.
(Prior Code, § 3-134)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 MUFFLER.
   Every motor vehicle operated within this village shall be provided with a
muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual noise. It shall
be unlawful to use a muffler cut-out on any motor vehicle upon any street;
provided the provisions of this section shall not apply to authorized emergency
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 3-301) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 LOADS.
   (A)   Projecting. When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any
portion of the load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or
the body of such vehicle, a red flag by day and a red light after sunset shall
be affixed at the furthest projection of such load.
(Prior Code, § 3-302)
   (B)   Spilling. All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, sand, gravel,
rock, asphalt, tar or any similar substance shall be so constructed as to
prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(Prior Code, § 3-303)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall violate or refuse to
comply with the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title, set forth
at full length herein or incorporated by reference, shall, upon conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined in any sum not exceeding $500 for
each offense. A new violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24
hours of such failure to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Unattended vehicles
   
71.02   Parking; generally
   
71.03   Parking areas
   
71.04   Obstructing alley
   
71.05   Alleys; loading and unloading
   
71.06   Unloading; freight vehicles
   
71.07   Fire hydrants
   
71.08   Schools and theaters
   
71.09   Curb intersections
   
71.10   Obstructing traffic
   
71.11   Curbs; painted
   
71.12   Display or repair of vehicles
   
71.13   Time limit; maximum
   
71.14   Emergency vehicles
   
71.15   Handicapped or disabled persons; designation of on-street parking
spaces
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended without first effectively setting the brakes
thereon and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
such vehicle to the curb or side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 3-401) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 PARKING; GENERALLY.
   No person shall park any vehicle or approach the curb with a vehicle except
when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles shall park either
diagonally or parallel according to painted markings or signs as determined by
the Village Board. When parallel parking is designated, all vehicles shall
stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb in such manner as to have both
right wheels within 12 inches of the curb and so as to leave at least four feet
between the vehicle so parked and any other parked vehicle. No person shall
park a vehicle so as to obstruct a private driveway or drive for any period of
time. No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand within 15 feet in
either direction from the entrance of any fire station.
(Prior Code, § 3-402) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING AREAS.
   The Village Board may, by resolution, set aside and post any street, alley,
public way or portion thereof for the parking of any particular kind or class
of vehicle; and where the parking of vehicles has been prohibited by
resolution, no vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers. The placement of no parking or restricted parking signs shall be
prima facie evidence of the restricting resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-403) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 OBSTRUCTING ALLEY.
   No vehicle, while parked, shall have any portion thereof projecting into any
alley entrance.
(Prior Code, § 3-404) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 ALLEYS; LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   No vehicle shall be parked in any alley except for the purpose of loading or
unloading during the time necessary to load or unload, which shall not exceed
the maximum limit of one-half hour. Every vehicle while loading or unloading in
any alley shall be parked in such manner as to cause the least obstruction
possible to traffic in such alley.
(Prior Code, § 3-405) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 UNLOADING; FREIGHT VEHICLES.
   Vehicles of an overall length of less than 20 feet, including load, while
discharging freight may back to the curb, but shall occupy as little of the
street as possible.
(Prior Code, § 3-406) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet in either direction of any fire
hydrant. The curb space within such area of 15 feet in either direction of such
fire hydrant shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 3-407) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 SCHOOLS AND THEATERS.
   The Village Board may, by resolution, prohibit the parking or stopping of
vehicles at the curb on streets directly in front of any entrance to a school
house, school building, fire station or theatre, and such curbs adjacent to the
entrance of said buildings shall be painted red to indicate such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 3-408) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 CURB INTERSECTIONS.
   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing for any purpose near the
intersection of curb lines where said curb lines are painted red to indicate
such prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 3-409) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No vehicle shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop within
any street intersection, alley entrance or any such location as to obstruct any
street, crosswalk or alley entrance.
(Prior Code, § 3-410) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 CURBS; PAINTED.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Board to cause curb spaces to be painted
and keep the same painted as provided in this chapter. No person, firm or
corporation shall paint the curb of any street, or in any manner set aside or
attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in any street or part thereof,
except at such places where the parking of vehicles is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter. The marking or designating of portions of streets
or alleys where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited shall be done
only by the village through its proper officers, at the direction of the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-411) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any street, alley or public
place within this village any vehicle displayed for sale. No person shall
adjust or repair any automobile or motorcycle, or race the motor of same, while
standing on the public streets or alleys of this village, except in case of
breakdown or other emergency requiring same. No person or employee connected
with a garage or repair shop shall use sidewalks, streets or alleys in the
vicinity of such garage or shop for the purpose of working on automobiles or
vehicles of any description.
(Prior Code, § 3-412) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 TIME LIMIT; MAXIMUM.
   The parking of a motor vehicle on a public street for ten consecutive days
without the permission of the Village Board is hereby unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 3-413) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement, parking and standing
of vehicles shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in
this chapter, while the driver of such vehicle is operating the same in an
emergency in the necessary performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 3-414) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.15 HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS; DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING
SPACES.
   (A)   The Village Board may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113; or
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state
      (3)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a handicapped or
disabled parking permit; and
      (4)   Such other motor vehicles which display a handicapped or disabled
parking permit.
   (B)   Whenever the Village Board so designates a parking space or access
aisle, it shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to
and visible from each space or access aisle a sign as described in Neb. RS 18-
1737. In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated
by blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent
to the space or access aisle.
   (C)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   ACCESS AISLE has the same meaning as in Neb. RS 60-302.01;
      (2)   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PARKING PERMIT has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 60-331.01;
      (3) HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON has the same meaning as in Neb. RS 60-
331.02; and
      (4)   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON has the same meaning as
in Neb. RS 60-352.01.
   (D)   It shall be and hereby is determined unlawful for any owner or
operator of a motor vehicle not equipped with distinguishing license plates
issued to handicapped and disabled persons to park or permit such motor vehicle
to be parked in a stall or space designated exclusively for handicapped or
disabled persons, and anyone parking a vehicle without such distinguishing
license plates shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-415) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736 and 18-1737
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
71.15 shall be fined in a sum of not more than $100 and the costs of
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 3-415)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
72.001   Operation
   
72.002   Clinging to motor vehicle
Motorcycles
   
72.015   Motorcycle lights
   
72.016   Riding tandem
Minibikes
   
72.030   Unlawful operation
   
72.031   Public lands
Mopeds
   
72.045   Definition
   
72.046   Operator’s license required
   
72.047   Traffic regulations applicable
   
72.048   Operation
   
72.049   Use of traffic lanes
   
72.050   Equipment
All-Terrain Vehicles and Utility-Type Vehicles
   
72.065   Definitions
   
72.066   Operation
   
72.067   Speed
   
72.068   Requirements
   
72.069   Modifications prohibited
   
72.070   Competitive events; exemptions
   
72.071   Persons authorized
   
72.072   Insurance required
   
72.073   Crossing of a highway
   
72.074   Permitted use by electric utility personnel
BICYCLES
§ 72.001 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on a street or other public
highway of this village with another person on the handlebars or in any
position in front of the operator.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be ridden faster than is reasonable and proper, but
every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the safety of the
operator and any other persons upon the streets and public highways.
   (C)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be permitted on any street or other public highway
from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise without a
headlight, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from the front thereof
for not less than 500 feet, firmly attached to such bicycle and properly
lighted, nor without a yellow or red light reflector attached to and visible
500 feet from the rear thereof. The said headlight shall emit a clear, white
light.
   (E)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway abreast of more than one other person riding or propelling a
bicycle.
   (F)   Every person riding or propelling a bicycle upon any street or other
public highway shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable
thereto, and shall turn only at intersections, signal for all turns, ride at
the right hand side of the street or highway and pass to the left when passing
overtaken vehicles and individuals that are slower moving, and shall pass
vehicles to the right when meeting.
   (G)   No person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand
is located on said sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 3-501) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.002 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle or roller skates shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person traveling
upon any bicycle or roller skates to cling to or attach himself or herself or
his or her bicycle or roller skates to such vehicle so driven and operated by
him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-502) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORCYCLES
§ 72.015 MOTORCYCLE LIGHTS.
   No person shall ride a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways from
one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, unless the same
shall be equipped with at least one and not more than two headlights, plainly
visible from the front and with a light on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 500
feet to the rear thereof; provided said lamps shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-503) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.016 RIDING TANDEM.
   No person operating a motorcycle shall carry another person in front of the
operator.
(Prior Code, § 3-504) Penalty, see §
70.99
MINIBIKES
§ 72.030 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the village. For purposes of this
subchapter, MINIBIKE shall mean a two-wheel motor vehicle which has a total
wheel and tire diameter of less than 14 inches or an engine rated capacity of
less than 45 cubic centimeters displacement or a seat height less than 25
inches from the ground, or any other two-wheel motor vehicle primarily designed
by the manufacturer for off-road use only.
(Prior Code, § 3-505) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.031 PUBLIC LANDS.
   Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the village
except where allowed by resolution of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-506) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOPEDS
§ 72.045 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOPED. A bicycle with fully operative pedals for propulsion by human power,
an automatic transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50
cubic centimeters, which produces no more than two brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the bicycle at a maximum design speed of no more than 30
mph on level ground. MOPEDS, their owners and their operators, shall be subject
to Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4, and amendments thereto, but shall be exempt
from the requirements of Neb. RS Chapter 60, Articles 1 (being Neb. RS §§ 60-
101 through 60-197), 3 (being Neb. RS §§ 60-301 through 60-3,258) and 5 (being
Neb. RS §§ 60-501 through 60-582), and amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 3-507)
§ 72.046 OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys or public highways
of the village unless such person has a valid motor vehicle operator’s license
or a valid school or learner’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-508) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.047 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under this title and Neb. RS 60-601 to 60-6,383 and amendments thereto,
except for those provisions of such sections which by their nature can have no
application. Such regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply whenever a moped
shall be operated upon any street, alley or public highway within the village
or upon any path set aside by the Department of Roads or local authority for
the use of mopeds. Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in
excess of 25 mph, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of 30
mph.
(Prior Code, § 3-509) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.048 OPERATION.
   (A)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and shall not carry any other person, nor shall
any other person ride on a moped unless such moped is designed by the
manufacturer to carry more than one person.
   (B)   Any person shall ride a moped only while sitting astride the seat,
facing forward. Further, no person shall operate a moped while carrying any
package, bundle or other article which prevents him or her from keeping both
hands on the handlebars. No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any
person ride, in a position that will interfere with the operation or control of
the moped or the view of the operator. No person who rides upon a moped shall
attach himself or herself or the moped to any other vehicle on a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 3-510) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.049 USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any street or
highway with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less, and no vehicle shall
be operated in such a manner as to deprive any moped of the full use of such
lane. This section shall not apply to mopeds or motorcycles operated two
abreast in a single lane. No person shall operate a moped between lanes of
traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. Mopeds shall not be
operated more than two abreast in a single lane. Any person who operates a
moped on a roadway with an authorized speed limit of more than 45 mph shall
ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable and shall not ride
more than single file.
(Prior Code, § 3-511) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.050 EQUIPMENT.
   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests for
such passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than 15
inches above the mounting point of the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 3-512) Penalty, see §
70.99
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
§ 72.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is 50 inches or
less in width, has dry weight of 900 pounds or less, travels on three or more
low-pressure tires, is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger, has a seat or saddle designed to be straddled by the operator and
has handlebars or any other steering assembly for steering control.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary limits of any
street, road, avenue, boulevard or way which is publicly maintained when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public for purpose of vehicular travel.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which is not less
than 48 inches nor more than 74 inches in width; is not more than 135 inches,
including the bumper, in length; has a dry weight of not less than 900 pounds
nor more than 2,000 pounds; travels on four or more low-pressure tires; and is
equipped with a steering wheel and bench or bucket-type seating designed for at
least two people to sit side-by-side. UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include
golf carts or low-speed vehicles.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017)
§ 72.066 OPERATION.
   (A)   Generally. An all-terrain vehicle and an utility-type vehicle may be
operated on streets and highways, other than a controlled-access highway with
more than two marked traffic lanes, within the corporate limits of the village
only if the operator and the vehicle comply with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Purpose of operation. It is unlawful to operate an all-terrain vehicle
on the village streets and alleys for pleasure.
   (C)   Operation without complying. All-terrain vehicles and utility-type
vehicles may be operated without complying with the previous sections of this
subchapter, on streets and highways in parades which have been authorized by
the state or any department, board, commission or political subdivision of the
state.
   (D)   Operation not permitted. An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle shall not be operated on any controlled access highway with more than
two marked traffic lanes, and the crossing of any controlled-access highway
with more than two marked traffic lanes shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.067 SPEED.
   An all-terrain vehicle or an utility-type vehicle shall not be operated at a
speed in excess of 30 mph and shall observe posted speed limits if lower than
30 mph.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.068 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. When operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type
vehicle, the headlights and taillights of the vehicle shall be on. Whenever an
all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle is moving, all cargo must be
securely attached to the vehicle in such a manner that the cargo will remain
secured without any assistance of the operator.
   (B)   Equipment required. Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle
shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which extends not less than five
feet above ground attached to the rear of the vehicle. The safety flag shall be
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches and shall be
day-glow in color. Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall
also be equipped with a brake system maintained in good operating condition and
an adequate muffler system in good working condition.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017)
§ 72.069 MODIFICATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle or a
utility-type vehicle with a cutout, bypass or similar device; operate an all-
terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle with and exhaust system so modified;
or operate an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle with the spark
arrester removed or modified except for use in closed-course completion events.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.070 COMPETITIVE EVENTS; EXEMPTIONS.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles participating in competitive
events may be exempt from §
70.069.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017)
§ 72.071 PERSONS AUTHORIZED.
   Any person operating and all-terrain or a utility-type vehicle shall be 16
years of age and have a Class O operator’s license as provided in Neb. RS 60-
4,126.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017)
§ 72.072 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle shall
have liability insurance coverage for all-terrain vehicles or utility-type
vehicles while operating the vehicle on a street or highway. The person
operating the vehicle shall provide proof of such insurance coverage to any
peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a request. It
shall be unlawful for any person to operate any all-terrain vehicle or a
utility-type vehicle on the city streets or alleys in the village until the
owner has demonstrated proof of insurance for the current year.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.073 CROSSING OF A HIGHWAY.
   Subject to §
72.066(D), the crossing of a highway shall be permitted by an all-terrain
vehicle or a utility-type vehicle without complying with the previous sections
of this subchapter only if:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstructions prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
   (B)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the shoulder
or a roadway of the highway;
   (C)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; or
   (E)   Both the headlight and taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017)
§ 72.074 PERMITTED USE BY ELECTRIC UTILITY PERSONNEL.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated outside the
corporate limits of any municipality by electric utility personnel with in the
course of their employment in accordance with the operation requirements of the
previous sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 10-5-2017)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   TREES
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Terms defined
   
90.02   Enforcement
   
90.03   Notice
   
90.04   Disposition
   
90.05   Transfer of title
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 TERMS DEFINED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or organization
of any kind shall abandon any vehicle, as defined by the state statutes, within
the village. A motor vehicle shall be deemed to be an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left
unattended:
      (1)   With no number plates affixed thereto, for more than six hours on
any public property;
      (2)   For more than 24 hours on any public property, except any portion
thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
      (3)   For more than 48 hours, after the parking of such vehicle shall
have become illegal if left on a portion of public property on which parking is
legally permitted; or
      (4)   For more than seven days on private property if left initially
without the permission of the owner, or after permission of the owner shall be
terminated.
   (B)   No person in charge or control of any private property, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to remain on
such property longer than seven continuous days. Any vehicle described in this
division (B) shall be deemed to be an abandoned vehicle for purposes of this
chapter.
   (C)   For purposes of this subchapter, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public
right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or other village-owned property, and
any privately-owned property which is not included within the definition of
PUBLIC PROPERTY. A vehicle in an enclosed building, appropriate storage pound
or depository licensed by the village, or owned and being restored or repaired
with satisfactory progress being shown by the controller of the real property
where said vehicle is located, is specifically hereby excluded from this
section.
(Prior Code, § 3-201) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village Board shall remove or cause to be removed any abandoned vehicle.
Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of, as
provided in §
90.04; provided any such abandoned vehicle which is located on private property
shall not be removed or impounded until the Board has given written notice of
intent to remove said abandoned vehicle ten days prior thereto to the property
owner upon whose property said abandoned vehicle is located. The Board or its
duly authorized agent may enter upon private property at all reasonable hours
for the purpose of inspecting such abandoned vehicle, posting notice thereon
and/or removing or impounding such abandoned vehicle. It shall be unlawful for
any person to prevent the Board or its agent(s) from entering on private
property for the purpose of carrying out his, her or their duties. Neither the
owner, lessee, occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle shall
be removed nor the village shall be liable for any loss or damage to such
abandoned vehicle which occurs during its removal, while in the possession of
the village, or as a result of any subsequent disposition.
(Prior Code, § 3-202) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NOTICE.
   (A)   Except for vehicles automatically becoming the property of the village
as set forth in §
90.05, the Board shall make an inquiry concerning the last registered owner of
such abandoned vehicle as follows:
      (1)   Abandoned vehicles with numbered plates affixed: to the
jurisdiction which issued said plates; and
      (2)   Abandoned vehicles with no numbered plates affixed: to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   The Village Board shall notify the last registered owner, if any, that
the vehicle in question has been recovered as an abandoned vehicle and that, if
unclaimed, it will be sold at public auction after five days from the date that
such notice was mailed. If the agency described in divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2)
above also notifies the Board that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall
also be sent to the lien holder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle
shall be required to pay the cost of its removal and storage. In the event the
owner does not appear within the time prescribed herein, or in the event that
the owner cannot be determined, such abandoned vehicle shall be disposed of as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
§ 90.04 DISPOSITION.
   The Village Board shall sell said abandoned vehicle at public auction to the
highest bidder within 60 days from the date that title to an abandoned vehicle
is vested in the village as provided in §
90.05. Such sale and the time and place thereof shall be advertised for one
week in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. Any proceeds from
the sale of an abandoned vehicle, less any expenses incurred by the village,
shall be held by the village without interest for the benefit of the owner of
such abandoned vehicle for a period of two years. If not claimed within such
two-year period, such proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 3-204)
§ 90.05 TRANSFER OF TITLE.
   If an abandoned vehicle at the time of abandonment has no numbered plates of
the current year affixed and is of a wholesale value of $100 or less, taking
into consideration the vehicle’s condition as determined by the Village Board,
title shall immediately vest in the village and the Board is not required to
follow §
90.03. With respect to those abandoned vehicles governed by §
90.03, title to such vehicles, if unclaimed, shall vest in the village five
days from the date the notice referred to therein is mailed or, if the last
registered owner cannot be determined, when notice of that fact is received by
the Board. Upon the sale of an abandoned vehicle at auction, the village shall
furnish the purchaser with the requisite affidavit to provide to the County
Clerk where the vehicle was last registered that said vehicle was abandoned and
became the property of the village prior to the sale.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the prohibitions or provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Penalties for such violation
shall not exceed $500 and/or imprisonment for a time not to exceed three
months, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
91.001   Owner defined
   
91.002   Licensing of dogs
   
91.003   Wrongful licensing
   
91.004   Removal of tags
   
91.005   Unlicensed dogs
   
91.006   Barking and offensive dogs prohibited
   
91.007   Dogs running at large; destruction
   
91.008   Damage by dog; liability of owner
   
91.009   Fighting dogs
   
91.010   Killing and poisoning
   
91.011   Staffordshire Terrier (pit bull terrier); nuisance
   
91.012   Interference with police
   
91.013   Impounding
Dangerous Dogs
   
91.025   Definitions
   
91.026   On owner’s property; confined
   
91.027   Off owner’s property; restrained
   
91.028   Failure to comply
   
91.029   Impoundment; destruction
Rabies
   
91.040   Rabies vaccination
   
91.041   Rabies suspected; impoundment
   
91.042   Rabid animals; capture impossible
   
91.043   Rabid dogs; proclamation
Kennels
   
91.055   Definition
   
91.056   Unlicensed kennels; nuisance
   
91.057   Unlicensed kennels prohibited
   
91.058   License
   
91.059   Regulations
Domestic and Exotic Animals, Snakes and Fowl
   
91.070   Prohibition
   
91.071   Definitions
   
91.072   Grandfather rights
   
91.073   Exemptions
   
91.074   Fowl; running at large
   
91.075   Split-hoofed animals; nuisance
 
   
91.999   Penalty
DOGS
§ 91.001 OWNER DEFINED.
   Any person who shall feed, shelter or permit present in or about his or her
house, store or enclosure for a period of five continuous days shall be deemed
the owner of such dog and shall be bound by all of the rules and regulations
hereafter and shall be liable for all penalties herein described.
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
§ 91.002 LICENSING OF DOGS.
   (A)   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog over the age of three
months within the village shall, within 30 days after acquisition of the said
dog, acquire a license for each such dog annually by January 1 of each year.
The said tax shall be delinquent from and after January 15; provided the
possessor of any dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits
subsequent to January 1 of any year shall be liable for the payment of the dog
tax levied herein.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued by the Village Clerk upon the payment of a
license fee of $2 for each male dog and spayed female dog and $3 for each
unspayed female dog. Said license shall not be transferable and no refund will
be allowed in case of the death, sale or other disposition of the licensed dog.
At the time the application is made, upon printed forms provided for such
purpose, the owner shall state his or her name and address and the name, breed,
color and sex of each dog owned and kept by him or her. A certificate that the
dog has had a rabies shot, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall
be presented when the license is applied for, and no license or tag shall be
issued until the certificate is shown.
   (C)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the Village Clerk shall issue to
the owner of a dog a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so
licensed. The metallic tag shall be properly attached to the collar or harness
of any dog so licensed and shall entitle the owner to keep or harbor the said
dog until December 31 following such licensing. In the event that a license tag
is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the original plate or tag was issued
in accordance with the provisions herein, the Village Clerk shall issue a
duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which the license tax has
been paid, and may charge and collect a fee of $0.25 for each such duplicate or
new tag so issued. All license fees and collections shall be immediately
credited to the General Fund. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to
issue tags of a suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
(Prior Code, § 2-302)
§ 91.003 WRONGFUL LICENSING.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of any dog to permit
or allow such dog to wear any license, metallic tag or other village
identification than that issued by the Village Clerk for dogs.
(Prior Code, § 2-303) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 REMOVAL OF TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed the
collar, harness or metallic tag from any licensed dog without the consent of
the owner, keeper or possessor thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-304) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 UNLICENSED DOGS.
   All dogs found running at large upon the streets and public grounds of the
village without a current license tag affixed as required in this chapter are
hereby declared a public nuisance and may be destroyed pursuant to §
91.008.
(Prior Code, § 2-305)
§ 91.006 BARKING AND OFFENSIVE DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any dog which by
loud, continued or frequent barking, howling or yelping shall annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person, or which habitually barks or chases pedestrians,
vehicles or riders of horses while they are on any public sidewalks, streets or
alleys in the village; provided the provisions of this section shall not be
construed to apply to any village dog shelter.
(Prior Code, § 2-306) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.007 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; DESTRUCTION.
   RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any dog found off the premises of the owner and
not under the control of the owner or a responsible person, either by leash,
cord, chain, wire, rope, cage or other suitable means of physical restraint. It
shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any dog to run at large
within said village, and every dog found running at large in violation hereof
is declared to be a public nuisance and may be picked up and disposed of by the
animal control officer or village police officer. Any person who permits his or
her dog to run at large within the confines of the village is hereby deemed to
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 2-307) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.008 DAMAGE BY DOG; LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a dog owned, kept or harbored
by him or her, or under his or her charge or control, to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person.
(Prior Code, § 2-308) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.009 FIGHTING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 2-309) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.010 KILLING AND POISONING.
   It shall be unlawful to kill, administer or cause to be administered to a
dog poison of any sort or in any manner to injure, maim, destroy or in any
manner attempt to injure, maim or destroy any dog that is the property of
another person, or to place any poison or poisoned food where the same is
accessible to a dog.
(Prior Code, § 2-310) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.011 STAFFORDSHIRE TERRIER (PIT BULL TERRIER); NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Staffordshire Terrier, also known as pit bull terrier, is hereby
declared a nuisance by virtue of the fact that it tends to injure or endanger
the comfort, repose, health and safety of children, citizens and other pets; it
renders other citizens insecure in life and the use of property; and it
interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property and tends to
depreciate the value of others.
   (B)   As the Staffordshire Terrier, also known as pit bull terrier,
constitutes a nuisance, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership,
corporation or association to permit a Staffordshire Terrier to be within the
zoning limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-320) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.012 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay or interfere with any
animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined upon him or her by
the provisions of this chapter, or to break open or in any manner directly or
indirectly aid, counsel or advise the breaking open of the village animal
ambulance wagon or other vehicle used for the conveying of dogs to the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 2-321) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.013 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to capture, secure
and remove in a humane manner to the designated village animal shelter any dog
violating any of the provisions of this chapter. The dogs so impounded shall be
treated in a humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of
food and fresh water each day. Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained
at the pound for a period of not less than three days unless reclaimed earlier
by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks or identification, shall be posted at the office of the animal control
officer as public notification of such impoundment.
   (B)   Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by payment of all impoundment fees, medical expenses, boarding fees and food
costs. The owner shall then be required to comply with the rabies vaccination
requirements within 72 hours after release. If the dog is not claimed at the
end of three days, the animal control officer shall dispose of the dog;
provided if in the judgment of the animal control officer, a suitable home can
be found for any such dog within the village, the said dog shall be turned over
to that person, and the new owner shall then be required to pay all fees and
meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in this chapter. The
village shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog impounded in the animal
shelter after three days. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in a humane
manner.
(Prior Code, § 2-322)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 91.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Village Board of Weston.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed or authorized by
the animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this chapter or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control
or seizure and impoundment of animals, and shall include any state or local law
enforcement personnel or other employees whose duties in whole or in part
include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment of any animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of any animal control
authority has:
      (1)   Killed or inflicted severe injury on a human being on public or
private property;
      (2)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while the dog was off
the owner’s property; or
      (3)   Been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous dog by an
animal control authority and the owner has received notice of such
determination, and such dog again aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals. A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS
DOG if any threat, or any injury that is not a severe injury, or any damage was
sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or
any other tort upon the property owner of the dog; who was tormenting, abusing
or assaulting the dog; who has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
tormented, abused or assaulted the dog; or who was committing or attempting to
commit a crime.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog or livestock.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political subdivision or
department possessing, harboring, keeping or having control or custody of a
dog.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that, when unprovoked, inflicts a non-severe injury on a
human or injures a domestic animal on public or private property, or chases or
approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks or on any public ground in a
menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; or
      (2)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury or to threaten the safety of humans
or domestic animals.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in disfiguring lacerations
requiring multiple sutures or cosmetic surgery, or one or more broken bones, or
that creates a potential danger to the life or health of the victim.
(Prior Code, § 2-311)
§ 91.026 ON OWNER’S PROPERTY; CONFINED.
   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog shall be securely
confined in a humane manner indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of young children and to
prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall have secure sides and
a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, such
sides shall be embedded into the ground. The pen or structure shall also
protect the dog from the elements.
(Prior Code, § 2-312)
§ 91.027 OFF OWNER’S PROPERTY; RESTRAINED.
   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the property
of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or leash.
(Prior Code, § 2-313) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.028 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal control
officer if the owner is in violation of this chapter, and said officer may
enter upon private property in order to confiscate the animal. In lieu of
confiscation, the animal control officer may immediately destroy the dangerous
dog if it poses a threat of harm to said officer or any other person or
property. The owner shall be responsible for the costs incurred by the animal
control authority for the care and boarding of a dangerous dog confiscated by
an animal control officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the
owner violated this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-314)
§ 91.029 IMPOUNDMENT; DESTRUCTION.
   In addition to any other penalty, the animal control authority shall order
the animal control officer to dispose of a dangerous dog in a humane manner.
Notice of impoundment of all animals, including any significant marks or
identification thereon, shall be posted at the office of the Village Clerk as
public notification of such impoundment. Upon such notice, the animal control
authority shall schedule the matter to be heard at a special or regular meeting
of the animal control authority, at which time the owner must present clear and
convincing evidence that the dog will not present a present nor future threat
to the safety of the public or to public property. The animal control authority
shall not be bound by the Nebraska Rules of Evidence. Upon such proof to the
satisfaction of the animal control authority, the dog maybe returned to the
owner after he or she pays all costs of confinement, boarding, medical
treatment, food and care for the dog. If the foregoing costs are not paid
within 15 days of the hearing, the dog shall be destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 2-315)
RABIES
§ 91.040 RABIES VACCINATION.
   Every dog three months of age and older shall be vaccinated against rabies
pursuant to state law. Puppies shall be vaccinated within 30 days after having
reached three months of age. Unvaccinated dogs acquired or moved into the
village must be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival, unless
under three months of age as specified above. The provisions of this chapter
with respect to vaccination shall not apply to any dogs owned by a person
temporarily residing within this village for less than 30 days, any dog brought
into this village for show purposes, or any dog brought into this village for
hunting purposes for a period of less than 30 days, such dogs shall be kept
under the strict supervision of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 2-316)
§ 91.041 RABIES SUSPECTED; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog or other animal suspected of being afflicted with rabies or any dog
not vaccinated in accordance with the provisions set forth above which has
bitten any person or has caused an abrasion of the skin of any person shall be
seized by a police officer or animal control officer of this village and shall
be impounded under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or public health
authority for not less than ten days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian,
the dog or other animal has no clinical signs of rabies at the end of such
impoundment, it shall be released to the owner upon payment of the costs of
said impoundment by said owner or, in the case of a stray, shall be disposed of
in whatever manner deemed best by the village police officer.
(Prior Code, § 2-317)
§ 91.042 RABID ANIMALS; CAPTURE IMPOSSIBLE.
   The animal control officer shall have the authority to kill any domestic
animals with the characteristics of rabies which make capture impossible
because of the danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 2-318)
§ 91.043 RABID DOGS; PROCLAMATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Board whenever, in its opinion, the
danger to the public safety from rabid dogs is great or imminent, to issue a
proclamation ordering all persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
muzzle the same, or to confine it for a period of not less than 30 days or more
than 90 days from the date of such proclamation, or until such danger is past.
Such dogs may be harbored by any good and sufficient means in a house, garage
or yard on the premises wherein the said owner may reside. Upon issuance of the
proclamation, it shall be the duty of all persons owning, keeping or harboring
any dog to confine the same as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-319)
KENNELS
§ 91.055 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KENNEL. Any lot or parcel of land or place where more than three dogs or
more than three cats over the age of six months are confined, treated, boarded,
housed or cared for, and shall include any lot or parcel of land or place where
a person, corporation or other entity engages in, conducts, manages or
maintains a veterinary business, regardless of the number of animals treated,
kept, confined or boarded.
(Prior Code, § 2-401)
§ 91.056 UNLICENSED KENNELS; NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that it is and shall be a nuisance for any person,
corporation, partnership or other entity to maintain, keep, conduct or operate
any kennel within the zoning limits of the village without first obtaining a
license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2-402)
§ 91.057 UNLICENSED KENNELS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or other entity to
maintain, keep, conduct or operate any kennel within the zoning limits of the
village without first obtaining a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2-403) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.058 LICENSE.
   Any person or legal entity seeking a kennel license shall make written
application to the Village Board. Such application shall state in detail the
type, number and gender of animals to be held in such kennel, describe the
kennel facility in detail and provide such other information as may be required
by the Village Board. Such application shall also have attached thereto the
consent of all property owners or occupants of lands or lots adjoining the land
upon which the proposed kennel is to be located. In the event that the Village
Board determines that such kennel would not constitute a nuisance, it shall
issue such license on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate. Such
license shall be on an annual basis and may be revoked after notice and hearing
for violation of any term or condition of the issuance of the license. The
annual license fee shall be $100 and the license shall not be issued until such
fee is paid.
(Prior Code, § 2-404)
§ 91.059 REGULATIONS.
   Every place used as a kennel shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition
and no refuse or waste material shall be allowed to remain thereon for more
than 24 hours. All animals shall be humanely treated, and any animal having any
disease shall be properly isolated and treated.
(Prior Code, § 2-405)
DOMESTIC AND EXOTIC ANIMALS, SNAKES AND FOWL
§ 91.070 PROHIBITION.
   It is hereby determined unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or confine
any domestic farm, split-hoofed or exotic animals, snakes or fowl within the
corporate limits of the village or within one-half mile thereof except as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-501) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOMESTIC FARM ANIMAL. Any horse, mule, cow or offspring thereof.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any llama, zebra, buffalo or other animal other than a
domestic farm animal or dog, weighing more than 50 pounds, or offspring
thereof.
   SPLIT-HOOFED ANIMAL. Any member of the swine family, sheep, goats or
offspring thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-502)
§ 91.072 GRANDFATHER RIGHTS.
   Any person raising or maintaining any farm animals, other than split-hoofed
animals, at the time of passage of this chapter may continue such operation in
its present size and at its present location within the village. In the event
that such person discontinues such operation for a period of six consecutive
months, all of his or her grandfather rights shall cease and terminate; and in
the event he or she wishes to re-establish such operation, he or she must
comply with §
91.073 in order to do so. Any person raising or maintaining split-hoofed
animals may continue to do so until January 1, 1997. After such date, the
raising or maintaining of split-hoofed animals is strictly prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 2-503) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.073 EXEMPTIONS.
   Unless grandfathered as set forth in §
91.072, it shall be lawful to keep and maintain domestic farm animals in
enclosed or fenced areas on private property; provided such animals are
confined on not less than one acre of land per animal and provided such
enclosed or fenced areas are not located within 200 feet of a habitable
structure owned by someone other than the owner of the livestock or person in
control of such livestock.
(Prior Code, § 2-504)
§ 91.074 FOWL; RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow poultry, chickens, turkeys,
geese or any other fowl to run at large within the corporate limits. Such fowl
may be maintained within the village if the same are confined in cages inside
an enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 2-505) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.075 SPLIT-HOOFED ANIMALS; NUISANCE.
   It is determined by the Village Board that maintenance of splithoofed
animals causes offensive odors and proliferation of flies and disease-bearing
insects and rodents. Such effects of the raising and maintenance of split-
hoofed animals within the village are hereby determined to be a nuisance, and
said maintenance of split-hoofed animals shall be strictly forbidden from and
after January 1, 1997.
(Prior Code, § 2-506)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any other penalty provided by §§
91.001 through
91.013,
91.025 through
91.029 and 94.040 through
91.043, any person or owner of a dog who shall violate any provisions of §§
91.001 through
91.013,
91.025 through
91.029 and 94.040 through
91.043 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 per violation. Each
day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense and may be prosecuted as
such.
(Prior Code, § 2-323)
   (B)   Any person violating §
91.007 and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined no more than $25 and shall
pay the costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 2-307)
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating §
91.009 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 2-309)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who violating §
91.011 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the penalty for such
violation shall be in any amount not to exceed $100 in the discretion of the
court, and every 24-hour period of any violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-320)
   (E)   Any person, firm, partnership or legal entity violating any of the
provisions of §§
91.056 through
91.059 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100. Each day a
violation occurs shall be considered a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 2-406)
   (F)   Anyone harboring any livestock as described in §
91.071 for which grandfather rights and exceptions do not apply, or splithoofed
animals after January 1, 1997, or maintaining chickens or other fowl contrary
to the terms of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be fined in a sum of not more than $100, and each day’s maintenance shall be
determined as a separate offense and may be prosecuted as such.
(Prior Code, § 2-507)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
   
92.01   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Fire Code enforcement
   
92.03   Lawful entry
   
92.04   Violation notice
   
92.05   Petroleum gas
   
92.06   Storage of explosives
   
92.07   Poisonous gas
   
92.08   Smoking in public places
   
92.09   Prohibited fuels
   
92.10   Street fires prohibited
   
92.11   Burning barrel fires regulated
   
92.12   Stoves, furnaces and chimneys
   
92.13   Preservation of property
   
92.14   Power of arrest
   
92.15   Fire investigation
   
92.16   Driving over hose
   
92.17   Traffic
   
92.18   False alarm
   
92.19   Pedestrians
   
92.20   Regulation of use, sale and possession of fireworks
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the office of the State Fire
Marshal relating to fire prevention are incorporated by reference into this
code and made a part of this chapter as through spread at large herein together
with all subsequent amendments thereto. Three copies of the Fire Prevention
Code shall be on file with the Village Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection at any time that the village office is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 92.02 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all village officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-102)
§ 92.03 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire
Inspector, as designated by the Village Board, to inspect the structure for
purposes of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are likely
to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the village
ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-103)
§ 92.04 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the village ordinances, to correct the condition within five days of the date
of receipt of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-104)
§ 92.05 PETROLEUM GAS.
   Any person desiring to store or keep in their possession liquefied petroleum
gas shall place the containers outside of buildings on nonflammable docks or
platforms, and no such container, other than small tanks for propane torches
and barbecue grill propane tanks, shall at any time be stored within a building
of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 7-105)
§ 92.06 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   The storage or possession of dynamite or other explosives, other than small
firearm shells, within the village is strictly forbidden.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 POISONOUS GAS.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep in the village for
any period of time any form of poisonous gas must first get permission from the
Rural Fire Chief, who shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage
and the amount of gas stored. It shall then be the duty of the Fire Chief to
prescribe such rules, regulations and precautionary actions as he or she may
deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 7-107)
§ 92.08 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite a lighter, strike a match or
indulge in the smoking of tobacco on or in any building or structure where
public gatherings take place within the corporate limits while any
entertainment, program, show, amusement, game, exhibition or other spectacle to
which the general public is invited is in progress, or while patrons thereof
are finding or leaving seats and standing room; provided the foregoing shall
not be construed to apply to banquets, dinners or entertainments held in any of
the aforesaid buildings or structures where food is served and the
entertainment takes place incidental thereto or in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 7-108) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 PROHIBITED FUELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow to be burned crank
case drainings, or to burn oil or other flammable substances, other than wood,
in a homemade stove.
(Prior Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 STREET FIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire on the pavement or near any
curb now built or hereafter to be built within the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 BURNING BARREL FIRES REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be lawful to build or set fires provided the substance to be
burned is in a fireproof trash burning barrel or incinerator with a metal
fireproof screen of not more than one-inch mesh, and located at least 20 feet
from any building. All such burning barrels or incinerators shall comply with
state rules and regulations if applicable. The burning barrel or incinerator
shall be built in such a way as to not permit the escape of burning paper or
other substances. If any person shall require a fire in the course of his or
her trade, such fire shall be built and maintained in the manner prescribed by
the Rural Fire Chief. All fires shall be built after 7:00 a.m. and completely
extinguished by 8:00 p.m., except the aforesaid fires used in the course of a
trade, which shall be allowed during such hours as the Rural Fire Chief may
prescribe.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, burn or cause to
be burned, any garbage, animal matter or vegetable matter. The burning of
straw, hay, leaves or brush in the open air is hereby permitted and allowed if
a permit to do so is first obtained from the Rural Fire Chief. If such permit
is obtained, the instructions for such burning shall be strictly followed.
(Prior Code, § 7-111) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 STOVES, FURNACES AND CHIMNEYS.
   All furnaces, stoves and other heating devices shall be installed at a
proper distance from combustible materials and portions of the building. Any
combustible materials or portions of the building that are dangerously close to
such heating devices shall be protected by non-combustible material. This
section shall apply both to existing structures and those which may hereafter
be erected.
(Prior Code, § 7-112)
§ 92.13 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   Any police officer or official of the rural fire district shall have the
power during the time of a fire to cause the removal of any private or public
property whenever it shall become necessary to do so for the preservation of
such property from fire, to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect
adjoining property. The said officials may direct the hook and ladder team to
remove any building, erection, fence or any part thereof for the purpose of
checking the progress of any fire, and the official in charge of the
firefighting effort shall have the power to blow up, or cause to be blown up,
with powder or otherwise, any building or erection during the progress of a
fire for the purpose of extinguishing or halting the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-113)
§ 92.14 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Police Department or Rural Fire Department Chief shall have power during
the time of a fire and after its extinguishment arrest any suspected arsonist
or other person hindering or resisting to the firefighting effort.
(Prior Code, § 7-114)
§ 92.15 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department and the State Fire Marshal to
investigate, or cause to be investigated, the cause, origin and circumstances
of every fire occurring in the village in which property has been destroyed or
damaged when the damage exceeds $500. All fires of unknown origin shall be
reported, and such officers shall especially make an investigation and report
as to whether such fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
officer making the investigation of fires occurring within the village shall
immediately notify the State Fire Marshal and shall, within one week of the
occurrence of the fire, furnish him or her with a written statement of all the
facts relating to the cause and origin of the fire, and such further
information as he or she may call for.
(Prior Code, § 7-115)
§ 92.16 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle over unprotected
hose of the Fire Department unless authorized to do so by the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-116) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to any
fire vehicle or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-117) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally, and without good and
reasonable cause, to raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-118) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-119) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 REGULATION OF USE, SALE AND POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS.
   The use, sale, offer for sale and possession of permissible fireworks in the
village, as defined by the state statutes shall be governed and regulated by
the said state statutes, including any and all amendments thereto, together
with any rules and regulations adopted by the State Fire Marshal for the
enforcement of such sections of state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions this chapter, whether set forth at full length herein
or incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.19 for which a penalty is not specifically provided, upon conviction shall
be fined not less than $5 or more than $100 and shall pay the costs of
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 7-120)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
Generally
   
93.01   Generally defined
   
93.02   Specifically defined
   
93.03   Duty
   
93.04   Jurisdiction
   
93.05   Nonexclusive procedure
   
93.06   Enforcement
   
93.07   Form of proper service or notice
   
93.08   Affect of failure to abate
   
93.09   Hearing
   
93.10   Extension of time
   
93.11   Abatement by municipality
   
93.12   Record of expenses
   
93.13   Hearing on statement of expenses
   
93.14   Expenses a special assessment against the property
   
93.15   Expenses collected by civil action
   
93.16   Alternatives
   
93.17   Procedures in case of emergency
   
93.18   State health rules; incorporated by reference
Weeds, Litter and Dangerous Buildings
   
93.30   Definitions
   
93.31   Public nuisance; grasses or weeds
   
93.32   Public nuisance; litter or dangerous building
   
93.33   Abatement
   
93.34   Failure to correct
   
93.35   Cost of removal
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 93.01 GENERALLY DEFINED.
   A public nuisance consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform
a duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any stream, public part, parkway, square, street or
highway in the village;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 SPECIFICALLY DEFINED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting of any of
the following specific acts, omissions, places, conditions and things are
hereby declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides, skins,
feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal, fish or
fowl;
   (B)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are not
securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
   (C)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house yards, barn yards,
stable yards, factory yards, mill yards, vacant areas in real of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
   (D)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the village;
   (E)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided that nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the Village Health
Officer, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner approved
by the Health Officer;
   (F)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered gins or galvanized iron receptacles;
   (G)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates, packing
crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other packing
material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not neatly
piled, old automobiles or parts thereof, or any other waste materials; when any
of said articles or materials create a condition in which flies or rats may
breed or multiply, or which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as
to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof; the term LITTER shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
      (2)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
      (3)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
      (4)   Offal and dead animals; and
      (5)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles, or vehicles, or parts
of a machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
   (H)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished;
   (I)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery
of any kind, or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind, or of any of the parts
thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or equipment used by
contractors or builders or by other persons;
   (J)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of ground;
   (K)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens or
any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any kind
are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or vegetable
matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter including grain is being
processed, when the places in which the animals are confined, or the premises
on which the vegetable or animal matter is located are maintained and kept in
such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate therefrom;
   (L)   The storage or salvage of scrap materials, household goods or
furniture, or business equipment or materials for more than 48 consecutive
hours in any residentially zoned district unless such items are stored in a
completely enclosed building or stored within an enclosure of a six-foot high
screening fence located in the back or side yard property upon which said items
are located;
   (M)   Storage, accumulation, keeping, placing or allowing to remain of
trash, garage, scrap and wrecked, worn-out, broken or inoperative, or partially
destroyed or disassembled personal or real property of any kind, including any
motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery and equipment;
   (N)   The practice of engine breaking within the corporate limits of the
village or within one mile thereof, which is hereby prohibited unless the motor
vehicle upon which the engine braking is being performed has an adequate
muffler system to muffle the noise emitted from the motor vehicle when engine
breaking;
   (O)   The growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or
worthless vegetation on any lot or parcel of ground within the village; the
term WEEDS, shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Bindweed (convolvulus arvensis);
      (2)   Puncture vine (tribulus terrestris);
      (3)   Leafy spurge (euphorbia esula);
      (4)   Canada thistle (cirsium arvense);
      (5)   Perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba);
      (6)   Russian knapweed (centaurea picris);
      (7)   Johnson grass (sorghum halepense);
      (8)   Nettle (solanum carolinense);
      (9)   Bull thistle (cirsium lanceolatum);
      (10)   Buckthorn (rhamus sp.) (tourn);
      (11)   Hemp plant (cannabis sativa); or
      (12)   Ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
   (P)   The permitting of a refrigerator, icebox, freezer or other dangerous
appliance to be in the open and accessible to children whether on private or
public property unless all doors are first removed and the appliance is made
reasonably safe;
   (Q)   The storage or keeping of one or more motor vehicles, each not having
a properly issued current motor vehicle registration and current motor vehicle
license plate properly displayed; provided, however, that this section shall
not apply to the storage of unlicensed and/or unregistered motor vehicles in a
fully enclosed garage;
   (R)   The storage, keeping or abandonment of parts, including scrap metals,
from motor vehicles or machinery, or parts thereof, except in enclosed
buildings or garages or where otherwise authorized by the village’s zoning
regulations;
   (S)   The permitting, allowing or maintaining of any dead or diseased trees
within the right-of-way of streets within the corporate limits of the village
adjacent to any lot or parcel of ground within the village;
   (T)   The permitting, allowing or maintaining of any dead or diseased trees
on private property within the corporate limits of the village;
   (U)   The keeping of bees within the corporate limits of the village 200
feet or less from any dwelling other than that of the owner of the bees;
   (V)   The permitting of emission of smoke from any source that is polluted.
The standards for air pollution established or adopted by the state shall be
presumptive evidence as to when the air is deemed to be polluted under this
section;
   (W)   The obstruction or impeding without legal authority any river or
collection of water or to corrupt and render unwholesome or impure any
watercourse, stream or other water within the corporate limits of village. The
standards for water quality established or adopted by the state shall be
presumptive evidence as to when the water is deemed to be polluted under this
section;
   (X)   The abandoning, on public property, of personal property. For purposes
of this division (X), PUBLIC PROPERTY shall mean any public right-of-way,
street, highway, alley, park or other state, county or village-owned property.
For purposes of this division (X), ABANDON shall mean any personal property
left on public property for more than 24 hours, except when the leaving of said
personal property on said portion of PUBLIC PROPERTY, at that location, is
legally permitted. For purposes of this division (X), PERSONAL PROPERTY shall
not include any motor vehicle for which a registration, from the state, is
required to operate said motor vehicle on those portions of public property
which constitute a street, highway or alley;
   (Y)   The storage of refrigerators, stoves, glass, building materials,
rubbish or motor vehicles that are in disrepair or abandoned; or
   (Z)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
village code.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DUTY.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of real
estate in the village to keep such real estate free of public nuisances. All,
or any part of said premises found, as provided herein, to constitute a public
nuisance shall be abated by rehabilitation, demolition or repair pursuant to
procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.04 JURISDICTION.
   The Chairperson of the Village Board, or the Chairperson’s designee, are
directed to enforce this subchapter against all public nuisances. The
jurisdiction of the Village Chairperson, or the Village Chairperson’s designee,
shall extend to, and the territorial application of this subchapter shall
include all territory adjacent to the limits of the village and within one mile
thereof and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.05 NONEXCLUSIVE PROCEDURE.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter for abatement of a public
nuisance is nonexclusive and is in addition to the procedure for abatement
which is set forth in §
93.16.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   When the Chairperson of the Village Board, or the designee of the Village
Chairperson, declares or finds that any premises within the village may be
maintained contrary to one or more of the provisions of §§
93.01 or
93.02, he or she shall prepare a written notice stating the conditions which
constitute the public nuisance and shall order the abatement of the public
nuisance within the time period set forth in the notice.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.07 FORM OF PROPER SERVICE OR NOTICE.
   Service of said notice shall be by personal delivery to the owner, occupant,
lessee and/or mortgagee of the premises or by depositing said notice with the
United States Postal Service enclosed in a sealed envelope, with postage
thereon fully paid, said mail to be registered or certified and addressed to
said owner, occupant, lessee and/or mortgagee at the last known address of said
parties as disclosed by the current tax rolls, and if there is no known
address, then in care of the property address. Service is complete at the time
of such personal delivery or of such deposit. OWNER as used herein shall mean
any person in possession and also any person having or claiming to have any
legal or equitable interest in said premises. The failure of any person to
receive such notice shall not affect the validity of the proceedings hereunder.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.08 AFFECT OF FAILURE TO ABATE.
   If the public nuisance is not abated within the period given in the notice,
the Chairperson of the Village Board, or the designee of the Village
Chairperson, may determine to proceed to abate the nuisance pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.09 HEARING.
   (A)   If the owner, as defined in §
93.07, of the premises upon which the Chairperson of the Village Board, or the
designee of the Village Chairperson, has determined that there exists a public
nuisance, shall, within the time period given to the owner by the Chairperson
of the Village Board, or the designee of the Village Chairperson, for the
abatement of said public nuisance, file a written notice with the Village Clerk
for a hearing before the Village Board, concerning such determination, the
Village Clerk shall fix a date and time to hear the matter. The written notice
shall include the name and address, including mailing address, of the owner.
The Village Clerk shall then issue a notice of the hearing date and time by
mailing a copy to the owner’s address no later than five days prior to the date
of the hearing.
   (B)   At the time fixed in the notice, the Village Board shall hear the
testimony of all competent persons desiring to testify respecting the condition
constituting the public nuisance, including the estimated cost of abatement and
other matters which may be pertinent. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Village Board shall, by resolution, declare its findings. If the Village Board
so concludes, it may declare the condition existing to be a public nuisance and
direct the Chairperson of the Village Board, or the designee of the Village
Board, to proceed to abate the public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter. Such final determination shall be considered a final order of
the village.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.10 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   The Chairperson of the Village Board, or the designee of the Village
Chairperson, may grant an extension of time to abate the nuisance if, in the
opinion of the Village Chairperson, or the designee of the Village
Chairperson’s, opinion, good cause for an extension exists.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.11 ABATEMENT BY MUNICIPALITY.
   If the person fails to abate the public nuisance within the time set forth,
the Chairperson of the Village Board, or the designee of the Village
Chairperson, may order the abatement of the public nuisance.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.12 RECORD OF EXPENSES.
   The Village Clerk shall keep an itemized account of the expenses involved in
abating the public nuisance. The Village Clerk shall by personal delivery to
the owner of the property or mail to the owner of the property a statement
showing the expense of the abatement, together with a notice of the time and
place when the statement will be submitted to the Village Board for approval
and confirmation and at which time the Village Board may consider the
objections and protests to the cost of the work.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.13 HEARING ON STATEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   At the time fixed for hearing on the statement of expense, the Village Board
shall consider the statement and protest or objections raised by the persons
liable to be assessed for the costs of the abatement. The Village Board may
revise, correct or modify the statement as it considers just and thereafter
shall confirm the statement by motion or resolution. The decision of the
Village Board on all protests and objections which may be made shall be final
and conclusive.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.14 EXPENSES A SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AGAINST THE PROPERTY.
   If the property owner does not pay the expense of abating the nuisance
within five days after the Village Board confirms the cost of abatement, the
costs shall become a special assessment against the real estate upon which the
public nuisance was abated. The assessment shall continue until it is paid,
together with interest as set by the applicable state statutes. The village
shall file in the offices of the County Register of Deeds and County Treasurer
a certificate substantially of the notice of the special assessment.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.15 EXPENSES COLLECTED BY CIVIL ACTION.
   If the property owner does not pay the expense of abating the public
nuisance within five days after the Village Board confirms the cost of
abatement, the village may collect the costs associated with said abatement
from the property owner and enforce the collection by civil action of any court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.16 ALTERNATIVES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prevent the Chairperson of the
Village Board, or the designee of the Village Chairperson, from directing the
Village Attorney to commence a civil and/or criminal proceeding to abate a
public nuisance under applicable civil or penal code provisions as an
alternative to the proceedings set forth herein.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.17 PROCEDURES IN CASE OF EMERGENCY.
   When the conditions which constitute the public nuisance pose an immediate
threat to the public peace, health or safety, the Chairperson of the Board may
order the nuisance abated immediately.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
§ 93.18 STATE HEALTH RULES; INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   Three copies of the Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health,
published by the Department of Health of the state, as revised, adopted and
promulgated in pamphlet form, are hereby incorporated by reference insofar as
the same are applicable to villages, and they shall be incorporated herein the
same as though copies at full length in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
WEEDS, LITTER AND DANGEROUS BUILDING
§ 93.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of its occupants or those
of neighboring structures;
      (2) Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is liable to cause injury or
damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure; or
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows readily admits
birds and animals or is an attraction for children or other persons to enter.
   LITTER.
      (1)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
      (2)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
      (3)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
      (4)   Offal and dead animals; or
      (5)   Any machine, vehicle or parts of a machine or vehicle which have
lost their identity, character, utility or serviceability as such through
deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of time, are inoperative or unable to
perform their intended functions, or are cast off, discarded or thrown away or
left as waste, wreckage or junk.
   WEEDS, GRASSES or WORTHLESS VEGETATION. Any weed or grass growth of more
than 12 inches in height. WEEDS shall include, but not be limited to, bindweed,
puncture vine, leafy spurge, Canada thistle, perennial peppergrass, Russian
knapweea, Johnson grass, nodding or musk thistle, quack grass, perennial sow
thistle, horse nettle, bull thistle, buckthorn, hemp plant and ragweed.
(Prior Code, § 2-601)
§ 93.31 PUBLIC NUISANCE; GRASSES OR WEEDS.
   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance to permit grasses to grow in
excess of 12 inches or to permit weeds of any height to be grown on any
property within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-602) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.32 PUBLIC NUISANCE; LITTER OR DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance to permit the accumulation of
litter or to maintain a dangerous building on any property with the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-603) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.33 ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the Board of Trustees, by resolution, determines that any grass in
excess of 12 inches, or weeds of any height are growing on property within the
village, or litter is found on any property, or that any building or structure
in the village is a dangerous building, the Village Clerk shall cause written
notice to be served upon the owner of the property on which grass, weeds,
litter or such dangerous building is located, and further, upon the occupant
thereof, by registered mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state
that the premises have thereon grass in excess of 12 inches, weeds or litter or
that the building situated thereon has been declared to be in a dangerous
condition, and that the grass in excess of 12 inches, weeds, litter or
dangerous building must be removed or remedied within 15 days of receipt of
notice.
(Prior Code, § 2-604)
§ 93.34 FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   In the event that the owner or occupant of said premises fails to correct
and eliminate said nuisance pursuant to the notice to correct delivered by the
Village Clerk, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 2-605) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.35 COST OF REMOVAL.
   If the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground fails to comply with
the order to abate and remove the nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the
notice to abate, the village may have such work done and the cost and expense
of such work shall be paid by the owner of the property. If unpaid for two
months after such work is done, the village may either levy and assess the
costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so benefitted in
the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied and
assessed, or recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work.
(Prior Code, § 2-606)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with §§
93.01 through
93.18, and every person failing to comply with, or violating any of the
provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.18 shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall for each offense, be fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
   (C)   Any person violating §§
93.31 through
93.35 shall be fined not more than $100. Each day’s violation after the
expiration of the 30 days’ notice shall be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-605) (Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-5-2010)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Public Property Regulations
   
94.01   Maintenance and control
   
94.02   Signs and canopies
   
94.03   Obstructions
   
94.04   Permitted obstructions
   
94.05   Obstructing water flow
Streets
   
94.20   Names and numbers
   
94.21   Crossings
   
94.22   Excavation
   
94.23   Cutting of pavement
   
94.24   Obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
94.25   Fire on sidewalk or pavement; scattering combustible material;
prohibited
   
94.26   Driving stakes
   
94.27   Mixing concrete
   
94.28   Harmful liquids
   
94.29   Eave and gutter spouts
   
94.30   Heavy equipment
   
94.31   Widening or opening
   
94.32   Utility lines, wires and the like
Sidewalks
   
94.45   Duty to repair; liability
   
94.46   New sidewalk; notice
   
94.47   Repairing sidewalk; notice
   
94.48   Reconstructing sidewalk; notice
   
94.49   Failure to construct, reconstruct or repair
   
94.50   Materials; extent of repairs permissible; width
   
94.51   Manner of construction
   
94.52   Failure to rebuild
   
94.53   Duty to remove snow, sleet and ice
   
94.54   Duty to remove branches and shrubbery
Construction of Private Drives
   
94.65   Application
   
94.66   Private drive specifications
   
94.67   Application requirements
   
94.68   Issuance of permit
PUBLIC PROPERTY REGULATIONS
§ 94.01 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Trustees shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the village and shall cause such highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public
squares, and commons to be kept open and in repair and free from nuisances.
(Neb. RS 17-567)
§ 94.02 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster or rigid
canopy over any street, sidewalk or alley or on other public property without
having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, signboards, posters
and canopies shall be issued by the Village Clerk, subject to the approval of
the Street Commissioner, upon the payment of the fee, if any, established by
the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of the them being dislodged by
ordinary winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign, or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster or canopy is in
violation of this section, the village may proceed against the owner or
occupant of the premises where such the sign, signboard, poster or canopy is
located.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Trees and shrubs growing upon or near the lot line or upon public ground and
interfering with the use or construction of any public improvements shall be
deemed an obstruction under this subchapter. The roots of said trees and shrubs
may be removed by the Street Commissioner at the expense of the owner of the
property upon which the trees and shrubs are located, should the owner fail or
neglect to do so after notice. It shall be unlawful for any person, persons,
firm or corporation to obstruct or encumber any of the streets, alleys or
sidewalks by fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 5-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking or
repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with such building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person shall make written application
to do so; provided no permit shall be granted for the occupancy of the sidewalk
space or more than one-third of the roadway of the public space adjacent to the
real estate on which said building is to be constructed, erected,
reconstructed, wrecked or repaired; and provided further, a suitable passageway
for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included in the
permit, which shall be protected and lighted in the manner required by the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-103)
§ 94.05 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 5-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREETS
§ 94.20 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   The Village Board may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for a new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes located along such streets shall retain their previously assigned
numbers, and the Street Commissioner shall give notice to the owner, owners,
occupant or occupants of any buildings located along such named or renamed
streets.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner, upon the erection of
any new building or buildings, to assign the proper numbers to said building or
buildings and to give notice to the owner, owners, occupant or occupants that
such new buildings have had numbers assigned to them.
(Prior Code, § 5-201)
§ 94.21 CROSSINGS.
   The Village Board may order and cause street, avenue and alley crossings to
be constructed under the supervision of the Street Commissioner, and the same
shall be constructed of such materials as the Village Board shall deem
necessary. When a petition for the construction of any such crossing is filed
by an interested resident in the office of the Village Clerk, he or she shall
refer such application to the Street Commissioner, who shall investigate and
recommend to the Village Board allowance or rejection as final action by the
Village Board on such application.
(Prior Code, § 5-202)
§ 94.22 EXCAVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street for
any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the Village Board
authorizing such excavation.
(Prior Code, § 5-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.23 CUTTING OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   It is hereby determined to be unlawful for any person to cut into any
paving, curb or sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any
other purpose whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from
the Village Clerk therefor. Before any person shall obtain a permit, he or she
shall inform the Village Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done.
Before any permit is issued by the Village Clerk, the applicant for such permit
shall deposit with the Village Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the Village
Board for all paving, curbs or sidewalks to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the village for the purpose of replacing the paving, curbs or sidewalks in the
event the work is done by the village. In the event the village elects to
require the applicant to replace the paving, curbs or sidewalks, the deposit
shall be retained by the village until the work is completed to the
satisfaction of the Street Commissioner or of the Committee of the Village
Board on Streets and Alleys. In addition to making the deposit set forth above,
the applicant shall, before any permit is issued, execute a bond to the village
with a good and sufficient surety or sureties to be approved by the Village
Board in a sum set by resolution of said Board, to guarantee faithful
performance of the work.
   (B)   It shall be the Street Commissioner’s duty to inspect the place of
entry into the paving, sidewalk or curb before the same is cut. When cutting
into any paving, it shall be the duty of the applicant to do so under such
rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Village Board or the Village
Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the opening made, he or she
shall inform the Street Commissioner, who shall supervise and inspect the
materials used and the work done in closing the opening. It shall be
discretionary with the Village Board to order the Street Commissioner, under
the supervision and inspection of the Village Engineer or the Committee of the
Village Board on Streets and Alleys, to do the work of cutting and closing the
paving and charge the costs thereof to the applicant. The Village Board may
consent to the work of cutting and closing the paving to be done by the party
holding the permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.24 OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or other legal entity to cause any
obstruction of any public street, sidewalk or other public way unless such
obstruction has been sanctioned by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.25 FIRE ON SIDEWALK OR PAVEMENT; SCATTERING COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL;
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any material on any concrete or
asphalt pavement, or to scatter any combustible material of any kind on the
streets, alleys or public ground in this village.
(Prior Code, § 5-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.26 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-207) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.27 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever and to use
said pavement as a mixing board for said material.
(Prior Code, § 5-208) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.28 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak onto any
street or in any gutter, waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils,
which damage or act as a solvent upon said streets.
(Prior Code, § 5-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.29 EAVE AND GUTTER SPOUTS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any
dwelling house or business building within the limits of the village where the
said dwelling or building abuts on any sidewalk or street, without providing
proper guttering and eave spouts to receive the waste waters that collect on
the said sidewalks and streets. All eave spouts erected on any dwelling house
or business building shall be constructed to drain into the alleys, or shall be
buried beneath the sidewalks and drain into the streets where it is found to be
impossible to drain said eave spouts into the alley.
(Prior Code, § 5-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.30 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to move or operate
heavy equipment across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk
or crossing on any unpaved street without first having protected such curb,
gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank
sufficient in strength to warrant against the breakage or damage of the same.
Hereafter, it shall be unlawful to drive, move, operate or convey over or
across any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or
sharp wheels that bear upon said pavement; with wheels having cutting edges;
with wheels having lugs, protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend beyond a
plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or damage any
pavement, gutter or curb; provided, where heavy vehicles, structures and
machines move along paved or unpaved streets, the Village Board is hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed; and provided,
school buses and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or metal-
type studs the year around; it shall be permissible to use farm machinery with
tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets; and it shall be
permissible to use tire chains of reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when
required for safety because of snow, ice or other conditions tending to cause a
vehicle to slide or skid.
(Prior Code, § 5-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.31 WIDENING OR OPENING.
   The Village Board shall have the power to open or widen any street, alley or
lane within the limits of the village and to create, open and improve any new
street, alley or lane; provided all damages shall be sustained shall be
ascertained in such manner as provided by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 5-212)
§ 94.32 UTILITY LINES, WIRES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances of public
service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the streets,
alleys and common grounds after a proper application shall have been made to
the Village Clerk in writing, and permission in writing shall have been given
by the Village Board. Public service companies heretofore or hereafter granted
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, conduits, gas mains,
pipe lines and wires for the purpose of transacting their business upon, under
or over the streets, alleys and public grounds shall at all times, when
requested by the Village Board, erect, locate or relocate their poles, wires,
gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances to such places and in such manner
as shall be designated by the Village Board.
   (B)   Such poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances shall
be removed or relocated by said companies at their own expense when requested
to do so by the Village Board. Whenever it becomes necessary for the Village
Board to request such relocation for the public safety and convenience, the
Village Board shall order said relocation by resolution and the Village Clerk
shall notify any company or companies affected. Said companies shall, within 24
hours after receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed. The Village Board shall
designate another location, as close as possible, where said poles, wires, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances may be reset or placed. All poles,
wires, gas mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances, shall be reset, placed or
erected in such manner that they will not interfere with the water system,
sewer system or poles, wires and mains of any public utility located on the
same street or alley, or with travel, buildings constructed, or hereafter to be
constructed. Whenever possible, all poles, wires, gas mains, pipe lines or
appurtenances shall be confined to the alleys of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-213)
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.45 DUTY TO REPAIR; LIABILITY.
   Every owner of any lot or piece of land within the limits of this village
shall at all times keep and maintain the sidewalks along and contiguous to said
lots or pieces of land in good and proper repair and in a condition reasonably
safe for all travelers thereon. In case the owner or owners of any lot or land
abutting on any street or avenue or part thereof shall fail to repair any
sidewalk in front of his, her or their lots or land within the time and in the
manner as directed and required by this subchapter after having received due
notice to do so, they shall be liable for all damages and injury occasioned by
reason of the defective or dangerous condition of any sidewalk, and the
Chairperson and Board of Trustees shall have power to cause such sidewalks to
be repaired and assess the costs thereof against such property.
(Prior Code, § 5-301)
§ 94.46 NEW SIDEWALK; NOTICE.
   Whenever the Village Board shall deem it necessary that a new sidewalk
should be constructed in front of any lot or piece of ground in the village in
a place where there is no sidewalk, they shall so order and the Street
Commissioner shall thereupon notify the owner of such lot or piece of ground,
or his or her agent, if a resident of the village, of the work or improvement
to be done, and such owner or person so notified shall be allowed 30 days from
the date of said notice in which to construct the same.
(Prior Code, § 5-302)
§ 94.47 REPAIRING SIDEWALK; NOTICE.
   Whenever the Street Commissioner shall deem it necessary that any sidewalk
shall be repaired or it shall be required by the Village Board, Committee on
Streets and Walks or the Street Commissioner, he, she or they shall notify the
owner of the lot or piece of land along and contiguous to which such sidewalk
is situated to repair the same within 24 hours from and after the giving of
such notice. Oral notice to the owner shall be deemed sufficient. If the owner
is not found by the Street Commissioner, then a written notice left in the
house situated on such lot or piece of ground, or posted upon said premises,
shall be sufficient, and the 24 hours shall begin to run from the leaving or
posting of such notice, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 5-303)
§ 94.48 RECONSTRUCTING SIDEWALK; NOTICE.
   Whenever the Board shall deem it necessary that an old sidewalk shall be
replaced or reconstructed, it shall order the same to be done and the Street
Commissioner shall give notice in the manner and form provided in §
94.47, to replace or reconstruct the same within 30 days from and after such
notice.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
§ 94.49 FAILURE TO CONSTRUCT, RECONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   If any such owner, after notice has been given as provided in this
subchapter, shall neglect or refuse or shall have failed to construct, repair,
replace or reconstruct any sidewalk within the time limit in the notice given
in such case, and whose duty it is made by this subchapter to construct, repair
or rebuild such walks, the Street Commissioner or other officer empowered
herein to act shall proceed at once without further notice to such owner or
person to have such sidewalks constructed, repaired, rebuilt or reconstructed,
as the case may be, and the expense of such work shall be assessed to such lot
or piece of land and collected as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
§ 94.50 MATERIALS; EXTENT OF REPAIRS PERMISSIBLE; WIDTH.
   All sidewalks on either side of the streets and avenues of this village in
front of or along any lots or land abutting upon the same which shall be
hereinafter constructed, reconstructed or replaced shall be of concrete. No
person shall construct, reconstruct or replace sidewalk of any other material;
provided, however, the Board of Trustees may by resolution permit other
material to be used on certain streets. No person shall repair any sidewalk
constructed of material except as hereinbefore prescribed, when such repair
shall require any new stringer or shall exceed in the aggregate one-third of
the total amount of running feet in the sidewalks as repaired; and when any
sidewalk within this village shall require repairs to be made thereon, which
said sidewalk is constructed of wooden board or planks and stringers, the
person or persons repairing the same shall not place any new stringers therein
nor lay or replace boards or planks in such sidewalks, which boards or planks
shall exceed in the aggregate one-third of the total number of running feet in
such sidewalks. Such sidewalks shall not, in any event, be repaired unless such
repairs shall first be consented to and authorized in writing by the Committee
on Streets and Sidewalks or Street Commissioner of said village, and the said
Committee shall cause a copy of such written authority to be filed with the
Village Clerk. All sidewalks in front of or along any lots or parcels of land
within the fire limits, where curbing is set or about to be set, shall be
constructed not less than the width of the curb. All other sidewalks in the
village shall be not less than four feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 5-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.51 MANNER OF CONSTRUCTION.
   All sidewalks shall be laid upon a four-inch bed or foundation of well-
compacted gravel or coal cinders, having a covering of at least one inch of
sand and having an inclination toward the gutter and shall be four feet in
width. The whole work of grading and laying down of said sidewalks, whether
done by the village or the owner of the respective lots or parcels of land
abutting upon the same, will be under the supervision of the Committee on
Streets and Sidewalks, Overseer of Streets or Street Commissioner and subject
to their approval.
(Prior Code, § 5-307)
§ 94.52 FAILURE TO REBUILD.
   In case the owner of property in front of which any unlawful sidewalk is
constructed refuses or neglects to rebuild or relocate the same within five
days after notice to do so, then the Board may order the same rebuilt or
relocated and assess the costs thereof upon the abutting property upon the same
notice and in the same manner provided by law for the construction of and
assessment for new sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 5-308)
§ 94.53 DUTY TO REMOVE SNOW, SLEET AND ICE.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of each lot or parcel of land in said
village to remove all snow, sleet and ice from the sidewalks adjacent thereto
within 24 hours after the same has accumulated thereon; and if snow, sleet or
ice shall remain on any sidewalk for more than 24 hours, it shall be the duty
of the Street Commissioner to remove the same, and the expense of such removal
shall be charged to and collected from the occupant or owner of such property.
No such occupant or owner shall fail to remove the snow, sleet or ice
accumulated on the adjacent sidewalks within the time aforesaid.
(Prior Code, § 5-309) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.54 DUTY TO REMOVE BRANCHES AND SHRUBBERY.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of each lot or parcel of ground in said
village to keep the sidewalks adjacent thereto free from overhanging branches
and free from limbs to a height of seven feet, and to keep such sidewalks free
from encroaching hedges or shrubbery; and no tree, shrubbery or hedge shall be
permitted closer than 18 inches to the sidewalk. It shall be the duty of the
occupant of each lot or parcel of ground abutting on any intersection to trim
and or remove any shrubbery or other obstacle which obstructs the view for a
distance of ten feet from such intersection. After receiving three days’
written notice to do so, such occupants or owners shall remove the overhanging
branches and limbs or other encroachments.
(Prior Code, § 5-310) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVATE DRIVES
§ 94.65 APPLICATION.
   Before any person, firm or corporation constructs a private drive onto any
public street or alley, an application shall first be made to the Village Board
for a permit for such construction. Such application shall be accompanied by a
fee of $25 and shall be acted upon by the Village Board at a special hearing
called specifically for consideration of such application.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
§ 94.66 PRIVATE DRIVE SPECIFICATIONS.
   Private drives shall not exceed 24 feet in width and shall not be
constructed within ten feet of adjacent lot lines unless such adjacent lots are
owned by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
§ 94.67 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All driveway applications shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The addition, block and lot which the driveway is to serve;
   (B)   The location of the proposed driveway with reference to adjacent lot
lines; and
   (C)   The width of the driveway and type of street surface to which the
driveway will connect.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)
§ 94.68 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   In the event that the Village Board determines that such application is in
due and proper form, and that the same complies with this subchapter, it shall
issue a permit for construction of such requested driveway.
(Prior Code, § 5-404)
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Street tree species to be planted
   
95.03   Spacing
   
95.04   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
95.05   Distance from street corners and fire plugs
   
95.06   Utilities
   
95.07   Public tree care
   
95.08   Consent of property owner
   
95.09   Tree topping
   
95.10   Pruning; corner clearance
   
95.11   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
95.12   Removal of stumps
   
95.13   Arborist’s license
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the village, or to which
the public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
with the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-802)
§ 95.02 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The tree list adopted by the Tree Board and published by it constitutes the
official street tree species for the village. No species other than those
included in this list may be planted as street trees without written permission
of the Village Tree Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-807) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in the tree list and no trees may be planted closer
together than the following: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and
large trees, 50 feet, except in special plantings designed or approved by a
landscape architect.
(Prior Code, § 1-808) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance which trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in
the tree list, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than
the following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large
trees, four feet.
(Prior Code, § 1-809) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE PLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet to any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than ten feet to any fire plug.
(Prior Code, § 1-810) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in the tree
list may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
(Prior Code, § 1-811) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The village shall have the right to plant, subject to §
96.08, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of
all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of such public grounds.
(Prior Code, § 1-812)
§ 95.08 CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   The village shall plant no trees on the public right-of-way without the
consent of the adjacent property owners. Such consent shall be in writing and
shall be maintained as part of the official Tree Board records.
(Prior Code, § 1-813) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.09 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or village
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree as to remove
the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or
other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where
other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at
the determination of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-814) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.10 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
village shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street light or obstruct the view of any street intersection,
and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 1-815)
§ 95.11 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   All trees that are in a diseased, dying or dead condition are declared
to be a public nuisance and shall be removed by the property owner from the
private property on which they are located or public adjacent to the owner’s
property. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section, the
Village Board shall have the authority to enter on private property to inspect
the trees thereon. In the event that the trees are diseased or dead, notice
shall be given to the owner of the property as provided in Chapter 93 nuisance
procedures.
   (B)   The person charged with the removal may enter into an agreement with
the village that such work be accomplished by the village, and the expense
shall be declared to be a lien upon such property from the time the same
becomes due until paid. If the owner fails, neglects or refuses to enter into
such an agreement or to remove the trees, the Village Board may enter upon the
property and proceed to direct the removal of the trees; the cost thereof shall
be chargeable to the property owner. If the owner fails to reimburse the
village after 60 days being properly billed, the costs shall be assessed
against the property and certified by the Village Clerk to the County Treasurer
to be collected in the manner prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-816)
§ 95.12 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Prior Code, § 1-817) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.13 ARBORIST’S LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street trees within the village
without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall be
$25 annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be required
of any public service company or village employee doing such work in the
pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued,
each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance
in the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 for property
damage, indemnifying the village or any person injured or damaged resulting
from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
(Prior Code, § 1-819) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
112.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
Occupation Taxes
   
110.001   Purpose
   
110.002   Occupations enumerated; amount of tax; exemption
   
110.003   Interstate or government business
   
110.004   Collection date
   
110.005   Duties of parties liable
   
110.006   Daily or yearly payments; no refund
Bingo Regulations
   
110.020   Regulation
   
110.021   Tax
   
110.022   Quarterly report
   
110.023   Incorporated regulation
Railroads
   
110.050   Safe crossing
   
110.051   Lighting
   
110.052   Obstructing traffic
   
110.053   Spotting cars
Nebraska County and City Lottery Act
   
110.080   Generally
Cross-reference:
   Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants and Solicitors, see
Chapter 112  
   Plumbers, see §§
51.60 through
51.64
OCCUPATION LICENSES
§ 110.001 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, there is hereby levied an occupational
tax upon each and every occupation and business carried on within the corporate
limits of this village as hereinafter specified and enumerated; and every
person, firm, association or corporation carrying on the occupation or business
herein specified within the limits of said village shall pay to the village
treasury the sum hereinafter named as a tax upon such occupation or business.
All money so collected shall be credited to the General Fund of said village;
the said money shall be and remain under the control of the Village Board for
such use and purpose as other monies belonging to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 4-101)
§ 110.002 OCCUPATIONS ENUMERATED; AMOUNT OF TAX; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   There is hereby levied an occupational tax upon each and every
occupation and business within the corporate limits of this village as
hereinafter enumerated, in the several different amounts and upon the several
respective occupations, professions and lines of business, as follows.
 
                                     Fee
                                      For the use, support and maintenance of
                                      the Volunteer Fire Department, an
                                      occupation tax of $5 per year shall be
                                      hereby levied upon each and every fire
                                      insurance company, corporation or
Fire insurance companies              association doing business in the
                                      village; and the money paid to the
                                      Village Clerk under the provisions of
                                      this section shall be remitted to the
                                      Village Treasurer who shall place the
                                      same in the Special Occupation Tax Fund
                                      for benefit of the Volunteer Fire
                                      Department and the same shall be used
                                      exclusively for the purposes and support
                                      of such Fire Department; upon claims
                                      filed by the Chief of the Fire Department
                                     and approved by the Board of Trustees,
                                      the Village Treasurer shall pay over the
                                      amount of said claim to the Treasurer of
                                      the Volunteer Fire Department for the use
                                      of said Department
Insurance companies, non-residents    $25 per person per day
engaged in soliciting
Magazines, non-residents engaged in   $25 per person per day
soliciting subscriptions for
Stock of goods, wares or merchandise
brought into this village and sold at $25
auction
Tobacco - all retailers of tobacco    $10 per year
within the village
 
   (B)   The sale of farm produce locally grown and the sale of consigned goods
at a community-wide consignment auction are exempted from this tax if prior
approval of the Village Board is obtained for these sale activities.
(Prior Code, § 4-102)
§ 110.003 INTERSTATE OR GOVERNMENT BUSINESS.
   The license tax by this subchapter levied is not levied upon any business or
occupation which is interstate or which is done or conducted by any department
of the government of the United States, the state, this village or the officers
thereof, as such in the course of its or their official duties or by any county
or subdivision of this state or its officers.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
§ 110.004 COLLECTION DATE.
   All occupational taxes shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year,
except in the event that the said tax is levied daily, and upon the payment
thereof by any person to the Village Clerk, said Clerk shall give a receipt,
properly dated and specifying the name of the person paying the said tax and
the amount paid; provided occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor
licensees shall be due and payable on November 1. The revenue collected shall
then be immediately deposited into the General Fund by the Village Treasurer,
who shall keep an accurate account of all revenue turned over to him or her.
All forms and receipts herein mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy
shall then be kept by each party in the transaction.
(Prior Code, § 4-104)
§ 110.005 DUTIES OF PARTIES LIABLE.
   It is hereby made the duty of each and every person, firm, association or
corporation to pay the tax levied against him, her, them or it at the time the
becomes due provided in the same as foregoing section.
(Prior Code, § 4-105)
§ 110.006 DAILY OR YEARLY PAYMENTS; NO REFUND.
   Every occupational tax levied at a daily or yearly rate must be paid in one
payment, in advance, before the business is commenced, whether commenced at the
beginning of the day or year or at any time thereafter. No person paying
occupational tax shall be entitled to a refund of any part of the tax so paid.
(Prior Code, § 4-106)
BINGO REGULATIONS
§ 110.020 REGULATION.
   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the village in accordance with all
laws of the village and the state if the said game of bingo is played for or
involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed by the state to conduct
the game of bingo shall obtain a written permit from the Village Board before
commencing operation of said game. Application shall be made to the Village
Clerk for such permit. Said application form shall contain such information and
documents or copies thereof as the Village Board deems necessary to determine
whether to grant or reject the application. Upon the determination that
granting the application would be proper, the Village Board shall immediately
direct the Village Clerk to issue the said license to the applicant upon the
payment of an annual permit fee of $10. Said license shall be subject to
revocation at any time for good cause. Any person or persons so licensed shall
be subject to any other fees, rules and regulations which the Board may
designate. All permits so issued will automatically expire on March 31
following its issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal, unless otherwise
prescribed, shall be in the sum of $10. Said fee shall be credited to the
General Fund. The permit shall be on display at any place where a game of bingo
is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 4-901)
§ 110.021 TAX.
   A tax of 5% of the gross receipts of each licensed association deriving
revenue from the game of bingo is hereby imposed and levied against each such
association and payable on or before the thirtieth day of the immediately
succeeding calendar quarter to the Village Treasurer. Such tax shall be
credited to the General Fund, and shall be used to pay for the cost of
regulation and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-902)
§ 110.022 QUARTERLY REPORT.
   Each association conducting the game of bingo shall submit a written
quarterly report to the Village Clerk covering the preceding calendar quarter
on or before the thirtieth day of the immediately succeeding calendar quarter.
(Prior Code, § 4-903)
§ 110.023 INCORPORATED REGULATION.
   All applicable state statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be amended
shall be and will constitute a part of this subchapter as if repeated verbatim
herein, and violation of any state statute will be a distinct and separate
offense against the village as well as against the state. Violators thereof
shall be separately prosecuted by the village for each of such offenses, and if
convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 4-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
RAILROADS
§ 110.050 SAFE CROSSING.
   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the village to keep in a suitable and safe condition the
crossings and right-of-way in the village. If any such crossing shall at any
time fall into disrepair and become unsafe or inconvenient for public travel,
the Village Board may by resolution call upon the said company to make whatever
repairs that they may deem necessary to correct the dangerous condition. Notice
of the said resolution shall be served upon the local agent of the said
company. In the event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and
correct the said condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for each 24
hours thereafter shall be deemed, and is hereby made, a separate and distinct
offense against the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-1101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.051 LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating and
maintaining a railroad through the village to sufficiently light all crossings
and to install as many signal systems as the Village Board shall deem necessary
at the expense of the said company.
(Prior Code, § 4-1102)
§ 110.052 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents or
servants operating a railroad through the village to obstruct traffic on any
public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at one
time than five minutes.
(Prior Code, § 4-1103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.053 SPOTTING CARS.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company owning or operating a line of
railroad through the village to leave cars standing at any time 50 feet from
the center of any street within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-1104) Penalty, see §
10.99
NEBRASKA COUNTY AND CITY LOTTERY ACT
§ 110.080 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person conducting a lottery within the village shall
adhere to all rules and regulations of the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act
referred to in Neb. RS 9-601 to 9-653.
   (B)   Lottery operator; conflict of interest prohibited.
      (1)   No sole proprietor, partner in a partnership, member in a limited
liability company, officer or director of a corporation or individual with a
substantial interest in a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company or corporation applying for a lottery operator license or licensed as a
lottery operator shall be connected with or interested in, directly or
indirectly, any person, partnership, limited liability company, firm,
corporation or other party licensed as a distributor, manufacturer or
manufacturer-distributor under Neb. RS 9-255.07, 9-255.09, 9-330, 9-332 or 9-
632.
      (2)   No member of the governing board or governing official of the
village shall be connected with or interested in, directly or indirectly, any
lottery operator with whom the village contracts to conduct its lottery or any
manufacturer-distributor.
      (3)   The lottery operator with whom the village contracts to conduct its
lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the village. The village shall approve or disapprove each sales
outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation
which desires to conduct the lottery at its sales outlet location solely on the
basis of the qualification standards prescribed in division (B)(4) below.
      (4)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation
which seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet
location shall:
         (a)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 53, Article 1, being Neb. RS 53-101
through 53-1,122;
         (b)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency, or any similar offense or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude;
         (c)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or cancelled under the
Nebraska Bingo Act, being Neb. RS 9-201 et seq., the Nebraska Pickle Card
Lottery Act, being Neb. RS 9-301 et seq., the Nebraska Lottery and Raffle Act,
being Neb. RS 9-401 et seq. or the Nebraska County and City Lottery Act, being
Neb. RS 9-601 et seq.; and
         (d)   Be fit, willing and able to properly provide the service
proposed in conformance with all provisions and requirements of the Nebraska
County and City Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act.
      (5)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an
authorized sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the
qualification standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every
officer of such corporation and stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock
of such corporation.
      (6)   The village shall notify the Department of Revenue of all approved
lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
      (7)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any
way in the lottery established and conducted by the village.
      (8)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the governing body of the
village, a municipal official or the immediate family of such member or
official; the lottery operator whom the village contracts to conduct its
lottery or his or her immediate family, employees or agents; or any person
having an ownership interest in a sales outlet location or any employee
thereof, from playing in the lottery established and conducted by the village;
provided that such person is 19 years of age or older.
      (9)   For purposes division (A)(8) above, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean a
person who is related to the member, official or operator by blood, marriage or
adoption and resides in the same household of the member, official or operator,
or a person who is claimed by the member, official, operator or spouse of a
member, official or operator as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 12-3-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Liquor application; retaining licensing standards
   
111.04   Sale to minors and incompetents prohibited
   
111.05   Hours of sale    
   
111.06   Restrictions on place of consumption
   
111.07   Occupation tax
   
111.08   Revocation of license
   
111.09   Entry of premises for inspection
   
111.10   Form for citizen complaint
   
111.11   Forms; procedure
   
111.12   Complaint initiated by Board
   
111.13   Prerequisites to delivery of license
   
111.14   Action of application for license
   
111.15   Renewal of license
   
111.16   Protests against renewal
   
111.17   Change of premises
   
111.18   Signs
   
111.19   Gambling
   
111.20   Sale for resale
   
111.21   Transportation of liquor of retail licensees
   
111.22   No delivery after closing hours
   
111.23   Restrictions on conduct of other business
   
111.24   Conduct prohibited on licensed premises
   
111.25   Advertisements and sales
   
111.26   Sanitation
   
111.27   Sales for cash only
   
111.28   Premises open to view
   
111.29   Display of license
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases defined
in the state statutes, or as hereafter amended or revised, shall be adopted for
the purpose of construing this chapter, and said words and phrases are hereby
incorporated by reference the same as though copied at full length herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NEBRASKA LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No persons shall manufacture for sale, sell, keep for sale, barter or
exchange under any pretext any alcoholic liquor within this village unless said
person shall have in full force and effect a license therefor as provided by
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 4-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 LIQUOR APPLICATION; RETAINING LICENSING STANDARDS.
   The Village Board adopts the following licensing standards and criteria for
consideration by the Liquor Control Commission of any applicant for a retail
alcoholic liquor license, for the upgrading of a license to sell alcoholic
liquor or for the expansion or change in location of the premises, in
accordance with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and § 7 of LB 911, 89th
Legislature, Second Session, 1986:
   (A)   The adequacy of existing law enforcement resources and services in the
area;
   (B)   Existing motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic flow in the vicinity of
the proposed licensed premises, potential traffic and parking problems, and the
proximity and availability of on-street and off-street parking;
   (C)   Zoning restrictions;
   (D)   Sanitation or sanitary conditions on or about the proposed licensed
premises;
   (E)   The existing population and projected growth, both city-wide and
within the area to be served;
   (F)   Existing liquor licenses, the class of such licenses and the distance
and time of travel to such licenses;
   (G)   The nature and needs of the neighborhood or community where the
proposed premises are located as well as its projected growth; and
   (H)   Whether the type of business or activity proposed to be operated in
conjunction with the proposed license is and will be consistent with the public
interest.
(Prior Code, § 4-303)
§ 111.04 SALE TO MINORS AND INCOMPETENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No persons shall within this village sell, give away, dispose of,
exchange or deliver, or permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic
liquors to or for any person who is physically or mentally incapacitated by the
consumption of such liquors.
   (B)   No minor shall have in his or her possession alcoholic liquor in any
tavern, public place, street or alley in this village or inside a vehicle while
upon any street, alley or public place in this village.
   (C)   No minor shall obtain or attempt to obtain alcoholic liquor by
misrepresentation of age or any other method in any tavern or other public
place where liquor is sold in this village.
(Prior Code, § 4-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold from 1:00 a.m. to
6:00 a.m. on Sunday. Except beer and wine for consumption, both on and off the
premises, may be sold from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Monday and alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the premises, by the drink, may be sold from 12:00 p.m. to
1:00 a.m. Monday; provided that such limitations shall not apply after 12:00
p.m. on Sunday which is a nonprofit corporation holding a Class C or Class I
license pursuant to the state statutes.
   (B)   No alcoholic liquors, including beer and wine, shall be sold at retail
or dispensed on secular days between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. All alcoholic
liquors, including beer and wine, shall be off the tables and bars by 15
minutes after closing, and all persons excluding owners and employees shall be
off the premises by 30 minutes after closing.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit licensed
premises from being open for other business on days and hours during which the
sale or dispensing of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 RESTRICTIONS ON PLACE OF CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall drink or consume alcoholic liquors on any street or alley in
this village or inside any vehicle on any street or alley of this village or in
any place open to the general public, other than a premises having an on-sale
liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 4-306) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Occupation taxes for these and similar retail establishments shall be
double the amount of the state liquor license fee:
      (1)   Retailers of beer only for consumption off or on the premises, or
both, regardless of alcoholic content;
      (2)   Retailers of alcoholic liquors, for consumption on the premises and
off the premises (sales in original packages only); or
      (3)   Retailers of alcoholic liquors, including beer for consumption off
the premises (sales in original packages only).
   (B)   The amount of such liquor license fee and occupation tax set forth
above shall be deposited with the Village Clerk at the time the application for
license is made, whether such application be filed with the Village Clerk or
the State Liquor Control Commission, and the Village Clerk shall hold such
occupation tax as a trust fund until the application is finally passed on. If
the application is refused and license denied, then the amount thereof shall be
returned to the applicant without interest.
   (C)   The occupation tax year shall commence on November 1 of each year and
shall end on October 31 the next succeeding year; provided during any license
year, no license shall be issued unless the occupation tax for the full license
year shall have been deposited with the Village Clerk as hereinabove provided,
regardless of the time when the application for license shall be made. No
reduction shall be made in the amount of the occupation tax, regardless of the
time when the application for license shall have been made and regardless of
the time when such license is issued.
   (D)   The Village Clerk/Treasurer shall credit such occupation tax fees to
the General Fund of the village. Upon the failure of any such applicant to pay
such occupation tax as provided by this section, it shall be mandatory upon the
Chairperson and Board to pass a resolution denying the application for a
license or requesting the Liquor Control Commission to deny such application.
Such resolution shall state the reason therefor and shall be forwarded to the
State Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-307)
§ 111.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Chairperson and the Board shall, by resolution and subject to the right
of appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission, revoke the license of any
licensee finally convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-308)
§ 111.09 ENTRY OF PREMISES FOR INSPECTION.
   The Chairperson, any member of the Board, the village police officer, any
police officer or the Village Attorney shall have the right to enter any
licensed premises at any time for the purpose of determining whether the
licensee is violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or of
this chapter, and for that purpose to examine and inspect said premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-309)
§ 111.10 FORM FOR CITIZEN COMPLAINT.
   The following form is hereby prescribed for the use of residents of this
village desiring to complain to the Chairperson and the Board that any licensee
is violating any provision of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, regulations
prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commission or any provision of this
chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/756e5ba99c79ea1d49fbc53f13d029a34cc1621b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1102.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 4-310)
§ 111.11 FORMS CONTINUED; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall supply the forms prescribed herein and shall,
on request, supply one to any resident of this village desirous of initiating a
complaint thereon. Any complaint duly executed on the aforesaid form by five
residents of this village and filed with the Village Clerk shall be presented
by the Clerk to the Chairperson and Board at their next meeting. If the
Chairperson and the Board are satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is a reasonable cause
for such belief, they shall, by resolution, set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the filing of the complaint. Said resolution shall state the time
and place of said hearing and shall direct the village police officer to serve
the same on the licensee by delivering to him or her personally a true and
certified copy thereof at least 72 hours prior to the time of hearing. Said
resolution shall also state the section or sections of the Nebraska Liquor
Control Act, the regulations prescribed by the State Liquor Control Commission
or this code alleged to have been violated and the facts on which said
allegations are based as stated in the complaint.
   (B)   Present at said hearing shall be the Village Attorney and the
licensee, who may be represented by counsel employed by him or her. The
complainants shall be present and may be represented by counsel employed by
them. The Chairperson and the Board shall, within 30 days from the date the
complaint is filed, by resolution, dispose of the complaint, which resolution
shall be deemed the final order for purposes of appeal to the State Liquor
Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-311)
§ 111.12 COMPLAINT INITIATED BY BOARD.
   The Chairperson and Board may on their own motion, by resolution, fix the
time and place for a hearing on whether a licensee has violated any section of
the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the regulations of the State Liquor Control
Commission or this code, which resolution shall state the section or sections
in question. Said resolution shall be served in the same manner and within the
same time as the initial resolution mentioned in §
111.11, and insofar as possible the procedure shall be the same as is provided
in that section.
(Prior Code, § 4-312)
§ 111.13 PREREQUISITES TO DELIVERY OF LICENSE.
   Retail licenses issued or renewed by the State Liquor Control Commission for
licensees within this village shall be delivered to said licensee by the
Village Clerk, but he or she shall not deliver any such license to a licensee
who does not exhibit receipts showing payment of the occupation tax levied
under §
111.07, payment of the license fee, payment of the publication fee for giving
notice of the hearing before the Village Board on any application for license
and, if a renewal, payment of the publication fee of the automatic renewal
notice provided for in this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-313)
§ 111.14 ACTION OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt from the State Liquor Control Commission of the notice
and copy of the application provided for in the state statutes, the Village
Clerk shall present it to the Chairperson and the Village Board at their next
meeting, and said Chairperson and Board shall, by resolution, fix a time and
place at which a hearing will be had and evidence taken under oath from any
person desiring to be heard on the propriety of the issuance of the license in
question. Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a
legal newspaper in this village one time, not less than three nor more than
seven days before the time of hearing.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held not more than 21 days after the date of
receipt of the notice and copy of the application by the Village Clerk. After
said hearing, the Chairperson and Board shall, by resolution, spread at large
in the minute record of their proceedings, recommend either the issuance or the
refusal of said license. The Village Clerk shall thereupon mail to the State
Liquor Control Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of the
resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice.
(Prior Code, § 4-314)
§ 111.15 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in
this village one time between January 10 and January 30 of each year,
individual notice of the right of automatic renewal of each retail liquor and
beer license for which provisions are made in state statutes in the following
form:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/756e5ba99c79ea1d49fbc53f13d029a34cc1621b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1104.jpg]
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall file or cause to be filed with State Liquor
Control Commission proof of publication notices on or before March 12 of each
year.
   (C)   Automatic renewal of Class C and Class I licenses shall be published
between July 10 and July 30 each year.
(Prior Code, § 4-315)
§ 111.16 PROTESTS AGAINST RENEWAL.
   In the event written protests are filed with the Village Clerk by three or
more residents of this village against the automatic renewal of a license, the
Village Clerk shall present the same to the Chairperson and Village Board at
their next meeting and they shall thereupon, by resolution, direct the licensee
to submit an application in the same manner as he or she would be required to
do for an original license, and the village police officer shall forthwith
serve said resolution on said licensee by delivering to him or her personally a
true and certified copy thereof. Upon receipt by the Village Clerk from the
State Liquor Control Commission of the notice and copy of application, the same
procedure shall be followed as is provided for in the case of an application
for an original license.
(Prior Code, § 4-316)
§ 111.17 CHANGE OF PREMISES.
   Any retailer licensee desiring to transfer his or her license from one
premises to another shall file a written request for permission to do so with
the Village Clerk, and shall also file with said Clerk a sworn statement
showing that the premises to which removal is to be made comply in all respects
with the requirements of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act as amended. The
Village Clerk shall present said application and statement to the Chairperson
and Village Board at their next meeting and they shall, by resolution, approve
or disapprove the transfer. If they approve the transfer, the approval thereof
shall be endorsed on the license by the Chairperson and attested by the Village
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-317)
§ 111.18 SIGNS.
   (A)   No retailer licensed in this village shall use an exterior sign
describing or with reference to his or her liquor business larger than 600
square inches, and only one such sign shall be used at any time.
   (B)   No retailer licensee shall use an interior sign describing or with
reference to his or her liquor business larger than 28 square feet, including
its frame, and no brand name included in said sign shall exceed 100 square
inches.
   (C)   All signs in or about any licensed retail premises shall be considered
exterior signs when the same, in whole, at all times cannot be conveniently
read by those within that portion of the licensed premises normally occupied by
customers or the general public, exclusive of entryway or entry hall.
(Prior Code, § 4-318) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.19 GAMBLING.
   Unless sanctioned by state law, no licensee in this village holding a
license covering premises open to the public for the sale of intoxicating
liquor or beer shall directly or indirectly permit gambling on or in the
licensed premises; nor shall he or she permit the operation or possession of
any pay-off gambling device, slot machine or punchboard, mechanical or
otherwise, whether pay-off is in cash or merchandise, in, on or about the
licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-319) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.20 SALE FOR RESALE.
   No retail licensee in this village shall engage, directly or indirectly, in
any transaction including or conspiring as to the resale of any liquors owned
by him or her as a licensee, nor shall such licensee so permit the sale or
delivery of any such liquors in such quantities as would place a reasonable-
minded person on notice that such liquor might be intended for resale.
(Prior Code, § 4-320) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 TRANSPORTATION OF LIQUOR OF RETAIL LICENSEES.
   No retail licensee in this village shall permit the transportation of
alcoholic liquor from his or her licensed premises for storage purposes in any
manner for any purpose, or to any location other than has been expressly
authorized in writing by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 4-321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.22 NO DELIVERY AFTER CLOSING HOURS.
   No retail licensee in this village operating premises open to the public
shall act as retainer or keeper of liquor for customers or other persons for
the purpose of delivering or disposing of such liquor after closing hours as
provided by state law, ordinance or resolution or on days when sales are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4-322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 RESTRICTIONS ON CONDUCT OF OTHER BUSINESS.
   Retail licensees in this village shall not maintain in their licensed
premises any door opening into or access leading into premises owned, used or
occupied by other persons; nor shall any retail licensee permit any other
person to use his or her licensed premises for the purpose of carrying on
within such licensed premises any business activity of such other persons in
any of its phases, such as solicitation, sale, service, delivery, storage or
otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 4-323) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.24 CONDUCT PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee in this village shall engage in, allow or suffer in or upon the
licensed premises any disturbances, lewdness, immoral activities or displays,
brawls or unnecessary noise, or allow, permit or suffer the licensed premises
to be used in such a manner as to create public censure or become a nuisance,
public or private.
(Prior Code, § 4-324) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.25 ADVERTISEMENTS AND SALES.
   Advertising by licensees in this village shall not contain misrepresentation
or misleading statements, and no sales shall be promoted or made by any
licensee by unlawful means. Alcoholic liquors shall not be offered, delivered
or disposed of by any licensee as a prize.
(Prior Code, § 4-325) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.26 SANITATION.
   Sanitary conditions conducive to public health and welfare must be
maintained at all times in or about licensed premises in this village.
(Prior Code, § 4-326) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.27 SALES FOR CASH ONLY.
   No person shall, in this village, sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail
on credit or on a passbook, order on a store, in exchange for any goods, wares
or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered.
(Prior Code, § 4-327) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.28 PREMISES OPEN TO VIEW.
   In premises within this village in which the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption upon the premises is licensed, other than as a restaurant, hotel or
club, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted
in the windows or upon the door of such premises which shall prevent a clear
view into the interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or
sidewalk at all times. No booth, screen, partition or other obstruction nor any
arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior
of such licensed premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire
interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms
where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be continuously
lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white light so that all
parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible.
(Prior Code, § 4-328) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.29 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee in this village shall cause his or her license to be framed
and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place in the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-329)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License requirement
   
112.03   Application procedure
   
112.04   Standards for issuance
   
112.05   Revocation procedure
   
112.06   Standards for revocation
   
112.07   Appeal procedure
   
112.08   Exhibition of identification
   
112.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
112.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
112.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
112.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section, not including
charitable organizations, schools or church organizations.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods, food and/or drinks within the
village and who, in the furtherance of such business, uses any building,
structure, vehicle or any place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the village. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual or by the representative of the entity. The applicant may be
requested to provide information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
all state licenses.
   (E)   Location they place to set up any truck, trailer or stand with
permission from the village requested or proof of permission by the private
property owner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 112.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
village after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
112.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 112.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 112.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
112.04 or
112.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Village Board, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Board of Trustees shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
112.05.
   (B)   The order of the Board of Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
§ 112.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The village shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 112.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the village police
officer to persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 112.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
112.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
112.10 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Excessive noise
   
130.03   Window peeping
   
130.04   Non-licensed gambling operations
   
130.05   Gambling
Curfew
   
130.30   Curfew hours
   
130.31   Curfew hours extended
   
130.32   Parental liability
   
130.33   Enforcement; police authorization
Sexual Predators
   
130.45   Findings and intent
   
130.46   Definitions
   
130.47   Sex offender residence prohibitions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the village by clamor or noise,
intoxication, drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the
streets or other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by
indecent or disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 130.02 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   It is hereby determined to be unlawful to operate industrial equipment
emitting loud noise or to race automobile engines within the village between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. in such a manner so as to disturb the
comfort, repose, peace and quiet of residents of the village unless such
activity has been approved in advance by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or stealthily go upon the
premises of another in said village and look or peep into any window, door or
other opening in any building located thereon which is occupied as a place of
abode, or to go upon the premises of another for the purpose of looking or
peeping into any window, door or other opening in any building thereon which is
occupied as a place of abode.
(Prior Code, § 2-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 NON-LICENSED GAMBLING OPERATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to operate or permit to
be operated in this village any lottery, game of chance or gambling device of
any kind unless the same is licensed, regulated and operated pursuant to state
law.
(Prior Code, § 2-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in any lottery or game of
chance except bingo in this village unless authorized and licensed by state
law.
(Prior Code, § 2-110) Penalty, see §
10.99
CURFEW
§ 130.30 CURFEW HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to loiter,
idle, wander, stroll, play or be in or upon the public streets, public places
and public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant buildings
or vacant lots or operate any bicycle or other vehicle, in, upon, over or
through the streets of other public places of the village between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the nights of every day of the week, unless such
person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person having the
legal care and custody of said minor person or unless the minor person is upon
an emergency errand or legitimate business directed by his or her parents,
guardian or legal custodian, except as hereinafter provided. This shall not
apply to attendance of employment, school or religious events and going to or
returning from the same.
(Prior Code, § 2-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.31 CURFEW HOURS EXTENDED.
   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit said minor persons from attending
special school functions or adult supervised entertainment conducted by any
school, church or fraternal organization, or adult chaperoned youth functions
which continue beyond the curfew hours as set out in §
130.30. In all such cases, the hours prohibited in §
130.30 shall be extended for those minors attending said special social
functions or entertainment one-half hour after the closing of said special
function.
(Prior Code, § 2-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.32 PARENTAL LIABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having
the care and custody of minors under the age of 18 years to allow or permit
said minor persons to do any of the acts or things prohibited by §§
130.30 or
130.31.
(Prior Code, § 2-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.33 ENFORCEMENT; POLICE AUTHORIZATION.
   Every member of the police force, while on duty, shall be authorized to
detain any such minor willfully violating the provisions of this chapter, and
upon apprehension of said minor, shall forthwith notify by telephone or other
appropriate means the parents or legal guardians or person in custody of said
minor child.
(Prior Code, § 2-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
SEXUAL PREDATORS
§ 130.45 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   The Nebraska Legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons’ place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-4015 et seq.
   (B)   Repeat sex offenders who use physical violence and prey on children
are sexual perpetrators who present an extreme threat to public safety. Certain
sex offenders are extremely likely to use physical violence or to repeat their
offenses. These offenders commit many offenses and have many more victims than
are ever reported and are prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. This
makes the cost of sex offender victimization to society at large while
incalculable extremely exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter to serve the village’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health safety and welfare of the
citizens of the village by creating certain areas around locations where
children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers were certain sex
offenders cannot reside.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 130.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A place with a license issued under the Nebraska Child
Care Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 to 71-1923 as currently existing or
hereafter amended. It shall include licensed places both inside and outside of
the corporate limits of the village.
   RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than one
location, and may be mobile or transitory.
   RESIDENCE. A place where the person regularly sleeps, where the person has
established his or her home, where he or she is habitually present and to which
when he or she departs or if he or she intends to return. A RESIDENCE may
include more than one location and may be mobile or transitory. RESIDENCY may
be shown by among other evidence, receipt of mail at the premises or
identification of the premises as a RESIDENCE on a driver’s license, vehicle
registration or other document.
   SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
   SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism as determined by the state patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013, and
who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-12-2006)
§ 130.47 SEX OFFENDER RESIDENCE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
   (B)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the requirement shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the permanent residence or temporary
residence to the nearest outer boundary line of a school or a child care
facility.
   (C)   Exceptions. A person residing within 500 feet of any real property
comprising of a public or non-public elementary or secondary school or a child
care facility does not commit a violation of this section if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The person established a residence prior to July 1, 2006 and has
not moved from that residence;
      (2)   The person established the residence after July 1, 2006, and the
school or child care facility within 500 feet of the persons permanent
residence was opened after the person established; or
      (3)   The person resides within a prison or correctional or treatment
facility operated by the state or a political subdivision.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Comprehensive Development Plan
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.015   Building Codes
   
150.016   Property line requirements
   
150.017   Building permits
   
150.018   Building without a permit; nuisance
   
150.019   Dangerous building
Building Inspector
   
150.030   Appointment
   
150.031   Right of entry
   
150.032   Permit cards
   
150.033   Time of inspection
   
150.034   Appeal from decision
Moving Buildings
   
150.045   Permit and bond required
   
150.046   Notice to public service companies required
   
150.047   Care required of licensee
Minimum Lighting and Thermal Efficiency Standards
   
150.060   Lighting and thermal efficiency standards; need
   
150.061   Definitions
   
150.062   Standard; applicability
   
150.063   Exemptions
   
150.064   Request for alternative building system; approval
   
150.065   Inspections; investigations
   
150.066   Building plans; submission for approval
   
150.067   Fees
   
150.068   When architect or engineer is retained
   
150.069   Validity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The 2001 Comprehensive Development Plan is hereby adopted by reference. A
full copy of the Plan can be found in the Village Clerk’s office.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2001)
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.015 BUILDING CODES.
   To provide for the safe construction of buildings in the village and to
provide minimum standards for safe and stable design, methods of construction
and uses of materials in all buildings hereafter erected, constructed,
enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated and converted, all national Housing,
Construction, Plumbing, Electrical and Fire Prevention Codes in effect as of
the date of the adoption of this subchapter be and the same are hereby adopted.
These codes shall have the same force and effect as though having been spread
at large in these ordinances without further or additional reprinting herein.
All amendments that may be made from time to time to such codes are
incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 4-401)
§ 150.016 PROPERTY LINE REQUIREMENTS.
   To ensure that fire and other emergency apparatus can have free access to
all buildings in the village, the following property line clearances are hereby
established for all building construction.
   (A)   No buildings shall be constructed closer than three feet to any alley,
ten feet from the adjacent owner’s property line and 20 feet from the front
street line of the building to be constructed.
   (B)   In the event that the houses and buildings on the fronting street are
closer or further than 20 feet from the street line, the building to be
constructed shall be constructed in line with the other houses and buildings on
the block so far as possible.
   (C)   In the event that an applicant wishes to construct a house or other
building closer than the above established clearances, he or she shall make
application with the Village Board for an exception to such requirements. In
this event, the Village Board shall hold a hearing on the matter; and if they
determine that public safety shall not be affected and that the public good
requires such, they may grant an exception on a case-by-case basis.
(Prior Code, § 4-402)
§ 150.017 BUILDING PERMITS.
   Any person desiring a building permit to commence or proceed to erect,
construct, repair or relocate any building or dwelling, or cause the same to be
done, shall file with the Village Clerk an application therefor, in writing, on
a form to be furnished by the Village Clerk for that purpose. Every such
application shall set forth the legal description of the land upon which the
construction or relocation is to take place, the nature of the use or
occupancy, the principal dimensions, position of the building in relation to
the adjacent property lines, the estimated cost, the names of the owner,
architect and contractor, and such other information as may be requested
thereon. The application, plans and specifications so filed with the Village
Clerk shall be checked and examined by him or her, and if they are found to be
in conformity with the requirements of this chapter and all other ordinances
applicable thereto, the said applicant shall be issued a permit upon payment of
the permit fee set by resolution of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-405)
§ 150.018 BUILDING WITHOUT PERMIT; NUISANCE.
   Every building or other structure hereafter erected, remodeled or moved into
or within said village without a permit therefor, as herein required, or which
is not constructed, remodeled or located in accordance with the permit granted
and issued therefor, shall be deemed and considered to be a public nuisance and
may be abated or removed by the village at the expense of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 4-408)
§ 150.019 DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector shall find any building, structure or
part thereof, including any building or structure in the process of erection or
relocation, in such condition as to be unsafe for the purpose for which it is
to be used or is currently used or is in immediate danger from fire, due to
defects in construction, he or she shall immediately notify in writing the
owner, agent or person in possession to adopt and put into effect such
precautionary measures as may be necessary in order to place the building in a
safe condition. Such notice shall state briefly the nature of the work required
to be done and shall specify the time within which it shall be completed, which
time shall be fixed by the Building Inspector upon taking into consideration
the condition of the building and the danger to life and property which results
from its unsafe condition.
   (B)   In the event that the owner or person in possession of such building
is unable to be found, the Building Inspector shall forward notice by
registered mail to the owner of record at his or her last known address, and in
addition thereto, shall post in a conspicuous place upon such building printed
notice that the building has been declared to be in dangerous condition and has
been condemned by the Building Inspector. It shall be unlawful to remove the
said notice.
   (C)   In the event that the owner, agent or person in possession shall fail,
neglect or refuse to put the building in a safe condition within the time
specified in the notice, the Village Board may order the Building Inspector to
proceed to cause the work to be done and the costs thereof shall be assessed
and levied as a lien against the property.
(Prior Code, § 4-411) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.030 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Board may appoint an individual to serve as Building Inspector
for the village to regulate and inspect all construction, repairs and
alterations for compliance with the village’s codes as set out in §
150.015. The Village Board shall also have the power to contract said duties
with another governmental subdivision whenever it deems the appointment of a
resident inspector impractical. Said Building Inspector shall have the power to
issue permits for construction, repairs and alterations within said village,
and shall have the power and authority to order all work stopped on any
construction, repair or alteration which violates any provision prescribed
herein. Upon failure of the Board to appoint such Building Inspector, the Board
Chairperson shall act as Building Inspector for the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-403)
§ 150.031 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.032 PERMIT CARDS.
   Upon the issuance of a building permit, the Building Inspector shall furnish
to the applicant a permit card which shall be a distinctive color and shall
contain the nature of the work, the location of the building, the number of the
permit and the date of issuance. The card shall be prominently displayed on the
principal frontage of the building site close to or upon the building or
structure and shall so remain until the final inspection has been made.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.033 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the village code: foundation inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.034 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any village
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent, or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The Board of Trustees shall hear
all appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify
the decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be
final, subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.045 PERMIT AND BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move any building over or
across any street or public way of this village until a permit therefor has
been issued by the Chairperson of the Board and all other provisions of this
subchapter complied with. The Chairperson of the Board is hereby authorized to
issue such permit upon the written application of the owner of said building
proposed to be removed, or of his or her agent, showing the size and kind of
building, its then location and its proposed location.
   (B)   However, said permit shall not be issued until the owner of said
building has furnished a bond with good and sufficient surety of $10,000. Said
bond is to be issued on condition, among other things, that said licensee will
in all things strictly comply with all the provisions of the ordinances of this
village relating to house-moving, and that said licensee will save, indemnify
and keep harmless the said village from all liabilities, judgments, costs and
expenses which may in any wise accrue against it in consequence of the granting
of such license.
   (C)   In addition, said licensee will pay to said village any and all
damages which may be sustained by any pavement, curb, gutter, sidewalk, street
or other village property through the moving of such building by said licensee,
and said licensee shall pay the owner any and all damages caused in a like
manner to any private property in said village. Said bond shall be approved in
writing by the Chairperson of the Board before such license is issued.
   (D)   The Chairperson of the Board in said permit shall limit the time of
removal and shall specify the route to be followed in moving said building over
and across the streets and public ways of said village, which shall be the
route that least interferes with telephone systems and lighting systems in said
village under circumstances. It shall be unlawful for any such licensee digress
from such time or specified route without permission written consent of the
Chairperson of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.046 NOTICE TO PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANIES REQUIRED.
   Before moving any building, the licensee shall notify all public service
companies whose wires or other appliances may obstruct the moving of such
building of the time when such building will be moved, and request such public
service companies to arrange for the passage of such building. Such licensee
shall pay said public service companies the reasonable and actual cost and
expense of the work required to be done.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
§ 150.047 CARE REQUIRED OF LICENSEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to make any openings or excavations in
any street pavement or to set any stakes therein, and it is hereby made a duty
of every licensee to move any buildings in a careful manner and with the least
possible injury to the public or private property. For every such injury or
damage, he or she shall be liable on his or her bond. The estimate of the
Chairperson of the Board of any damage shall be final and conclusive upon said
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 4-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
MINIMUM LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS
§ 150.060 LIGHTING AND THERMAL EFFICIENCY STANDARDS; NEED.
   The village finds that there is a present and continuing need to provide for
the development and implementation of minimum lighting and thermal efficiency
standards for buildings to ensure coordination with federal policy under the
Energy Conservation Standards for New Buildings Act of 1976, being 42 U.S.C. §§
6831 et seq., to promote the conservation of our dwindling energy resources and
to provide for the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 4-501)
§ 150.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION. Any construction added to an existing building which will increase
the floor area of that building by 5% or more.
   ARCHITECT or ENGINEER. Any person registered pursuant to the state statutes.
   BUILDING. Any structure which uti1izes or will uti1ize a heating system,
cooling system or domestic hot water system, including new or renovated
buildings and additions, but not including any structure which has a
consumption of traditional energy sources for all purposes not exceeding the
energy equivalent of one watt per square foot.
   FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building that is heated or cooled within the
exterior face of the shell of the structure, expressed in square feet.
   PRIME CONTRACTOR. The person, persons, entity or entities who has a contract
with the owner and is the one responsible for the overall construction of any
building or the installation of any component which affects the energy
efficiency of the building. PRIME CONTRACTOR shall also mean a property owner
who performs the work of a PRIME CONTRACTOR.
   RENOVATION. Alterations on an existing building which will cost more than
50% of the replacement cost of such building at the time work is commenced or
which was not previously heated or cooled for which a heating or cooling system
is now proposed, except that the restoration of historic buildings shall not be
included.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A building three stories high or less that is used
primarily as one or more dwelling units.
   STANDARD. Standard 90-75 of the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration
and Air Conditioning Engineers, Inc., as it existed on April 23, 1980.
   TRADITIONAL ENERGY SOURCES. Electricity, petroleum based fuels, uranium,
coal and all nonrenewable forms of energy.
(Prior Code, § 4-502)
§ 150.062 STANDARD; APPLICABILITY.
   The new standard shall apply to:
   (A)   New residential buildings on which construction is initiated on or
after April 1, 1981; and
   (B)   All other new buildings, or renovations of or additions to any
existing buildings, on which construction is initiated on or after January 1,
1982.
(Prior Code, § 4-503)
§ 150.063 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from this subchapter:
   (A)   Any building which has a peak design rate of energy usage for all
purposes of less than one watt, or three and fourtenths British Thermal Units
per hour, per square foot of floor area;
   (B)   Any building which is neither heated or cooled;
   (C)   Any building or portion thereof which is owned by the United States of
America;
   (D)   Any mobile home as defined by the state statutes;
   (E)   Any manufactured housing unit as defined by the state statutes;
   (F)   Any building listed on the National Register of Historic Places; and
   (G)   All residential buildings, which shall be exempt from lighting
efficiency standards.
(Prior Code, § 4-504)
§ 150.064 REQUEST FOR ALTERNATIVE BUILDING SYSTEM; APPROVAL.
   Any person who owns or constructs a building to which this subchapter
applies may request that an alternative building system, technique, equipment
design or building material be found equivalent to the standard. The Chief
Building Inspector shall make such determination if he or she finds that the
proposed alternative would not result in energy consumption greater than would
result from the strict application of the standard. If the Chief Building
Inspector fails to approve or disapprove the request within 60 days from the
date of filing, it shall be considered approved.
(Prior Code, § 4-505)
§ 150.065 INSPECTIONS; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief Building Inspector or any person designated by him or her
shall conduct inspections and investigations necessary to enforce the standard
and may, at reasonable hours, enter into any building and upon any premises
within its jurisdiction for the purpose of examination to determine compliance
with this subchapter. Inspections shall be conducted only after permission has
been granted by the owner or occupant, or after a warrant has been issued
pursuant to the state statutes.
   (B)   During construction, the Chief Building Inspector or person designated
shall make periodic inspections to assure compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-506)
§ 150.066 BUILDING PLANS; SUBMISSION FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Prior to the construction of, renovation of or addition to any
building covered by this subchapter, the prime contractor shall file sufficient
plans and specifications with the Chief Building Inspector to enable him or her
to make a determination whether such building will comply with the standard.
The Chief Building Inspector shall, within 30 days of the filing, approve or
disapprove the plans and specifications. If disapproved, the reasons shall be
set forth in writing to the prime contractor.
   (B)   If the Chief Building Inspector determines that such construction,
renovation or addition will comply with the standard, he or she shall issue a
written permit which the prime contractor shall display in a conspicuous place
on the premises where construction work is to be done. No construction,
renovation or addition shall commence until a permit is issued and displayed as
required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-507)
§ 150.067 FEES.
   The person filing the application for a permit shall, at the time of such
filing, pay to the village the sum of $25 for residential buildings and $0.01
per gross square foot for any other building.
(Prior Code, § 4-509)
§ 150.068 WHEN ARCHITECT OR ENGINEER IS RETAINED.
   If an architect or engineer is retained, the architect or engineer shall
place his or her state registration seal on all construction drawings, which
shall indicate that the design meets the standard. The prime contractor shall
certify that he or she will build in accordance with the construction documents
prepared by the architect or engineer. This certification must accompany the
building plans submitted to the Chief Building Inspector for approval.
(Prior Code, § 4-510)
§ 150.069 VALIDITY.
   If any section in this subchapter is declared invalid or unconstitutional,
such declaration shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of the
remaining portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-511)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Statutory authorization
   
151.03   Findings of fact
   
151.04   Statement of purpose
   
151.05   Administration
   
151.06   Development permit required
   
151.07   Application for development permit
   
151.08   Applicable lands
   
151.09   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
151.10   Compliance
   
151.11   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.12   Interpretation
   
151.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.14   Application for appeal
   
151.15   Variance procedures
   
151.16   Conditions for variances
   
151.17   Non-conforming use
   
151.18   Amendments
Flood Districts
   
151.30   Zoning districts
   
151.31   Standards for the Floodway Overlay District and the Floodway Fringe
Overlay District
   
151.32   Floodway Fringe Overlay District
   
151.33   Floodway Overlay District
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTUARIAL RATES or RISK PREMIUM RATES. Rates established by the Federal
Insurance Administrator pursuant to individual community studies and
investigations which are undertaken to provide flood insurance in accordance
with 42 U.S.C. § 4014 and the accepted actuarial principles. ACTUARIAL RATES
include provisions for operating costs and allowances.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Chief Building Inspector’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation indicated in the official floodplain
study as the elevation of the 100-year flood.
   BASE FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation one foot higher than the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent with a
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water. CHANNEL flow, thus, is that water which is flowing within the
limits of a defined CHANNEL.
   COMMUNITY. Any state or area or political subdivision thereof which has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for the areas
within its jurisdiction.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures or mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating or drilling operations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which construction commenced before
the effective date of the FIRM, or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective
before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as existing
structures.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
flood insurance study has delineated the flood hazard boundaries and the zones
establishing insurance rates applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles as well as the flood
boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, including utility and sanitary
facilities, which would preclude the entry of water. Structural components
shall have the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
the effect of buoyancy.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a special flood hazard. Such a system typically
includes levees or dikes. These specialized modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound federal and state engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plan, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODWAY (FW). The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
portion of the floodplain that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-
year flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot at any point, assuming equal conveyance reduction outside the
channel from the two sides of the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE (FF). The area of the floodplain outside of the floodway
that, on the average, is likely to be flooded once every 100 years (such as,
that has a 1% chance of flood occurrence in any one year).
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, clogged bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers, travel
trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than 180
consecutive days. For insurance purposes, MANUFACTURED HOME does not include
park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for sale or rent for manufactured homes.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction or
substantial improvement is commenced on or after the effective date of the
FIRM.
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD. The base flood having a 1% chance of annual
occurrence.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A district in which additional requirements act in
conjunction with the underlying zoning district(s). The original zoning
district designation does not change.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq., includes substantial improvement and means the date the building
permit was issued; provided that the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the
permit date. The ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home and a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started or if the structure has
been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. For the purpose
of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either any
project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local
health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or any alteration of a structure listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter, where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
(Prior Code, § 8-201)
§ 151.02 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature, in Neb. RS 19-901 and 23-114, has delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt zoning regulations designed
to protect the health, safety and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 8-202)
§ 151.03 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the village are subject to inundation, which
results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstruction
in floodways causing increases in flood heights and velocities; and the
occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
others which are inadequately elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damages.
   (C)   This chapter uses a reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which
consisted of a series of interrelated steps:
      (1)   Selection of a base flood which is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated and the depth of inundation. The
base flood selected for this chapter is representative of large floods which
are reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the
particular streams subject to this chapter. It is in the general order of a
flood which could be expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any year, as
delineated in the official floodplain study, and illustrative materials dated
May 31, 1979, as amended;
      (2)   Calculation of water surface profiles based upon a hydraulic
engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and overbank areas
to convey the base flood;
      (3)   Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one foot at any point;
      (4)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no
obstruction is permitted which would cause any increase in flood height; and
      (5)   Delineation of floodway fringe, such as, that area outside the
floodway encroachment lines but which still is subject to inundation by the
base flood.
(Prior Code, § 8-203)
§ 151.04 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
151.03 by applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding or which cause undue increases in flood heights
or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazard; and
   (D)   Assure that eligibility is maintained for property owners in the
community to purchase flood insurance in the National Flood Insurance Program
when identified by the Federal Insurance Administration as a flood-prone
community.
(Prior Code, § 8-204)
§ 151.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Chief Building Inspector is hereby appointed to administer and implement
the provisions of this chapter. Duties of the Chief Building Inspector shall
include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Reviewing all development permits to assure that sites are reasonably
safe from flooding and that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied;
   (B)   Reviewing permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
   (C)   Notifying adjacent communities and the State Natural Resources
Commission floodplain management section prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submitting evidence of such notification to the Federal
Insurance Administration when participating in the National Flood Insurance
Program;
   (D)   Assuring that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that its flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (E)   Verifying and recording the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures;
   (F)   Verifying and recording the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the new or substantially improved structures have been flood
proofed; and
   (G)   Obtaining certification from a registered professional engineer or
architect when flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure.
(Prior Code, § 8-205)
§ 151.06 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall initiate any development or substantial
improvement or cause the same to be done without first obtaining a separate
permit for development as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-206) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an application in
writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every such application shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit;
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block, tract and house and street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work;
      (3)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended;
      (4)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent, who may
be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority;
      (5)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Chief Building Inspector;
      (6)   Within designated flood-prone areas, be accompanied by elevations
(in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest habitable floor (including
basement) or, in the case of a flood proofed non-residential structure, the
elevation to which it has been flood proofed. Documentation or certification of
such elevations will be maintained by the City Engineer; and
      (7)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Chief Building Inspector including:
         (a)   A typical valley cross-section showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of the land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be corrupted by the proposed development and higher water
information;
         (b)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground; pertinent structure with fill or storage elevations; size, location and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site;
location and elevations of streets, water supply and sanitary facilities;
photographs showing existing land uses and vegetation upstream and downstream;
soil types; and other pertinent information; and
         (c)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream.
   (B)   The Chief Building Inspector shall review all building permit
applications to determine if the site of the proposed development is reasonably
safe from flooding and that all necessary permits have been received as
required by federal or state law (including § 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. § 13434) and make
recommendations for development in all locations which have flood hazards.
(Prior Code, § 8-207)
§ 151.08 APPLICABLE LANDS.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the
village, identified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) as numbered and
unnumbered A Zones and/or within all areas covered by this chapter. No
development shall be permitted except upon a permit to develop, granted by the
governing body or its duly designated representative under such safeguards and
restrictions as they may reasonably impose for the promotion and maintenance of
the general welfare and health of the inhabitants of the community.
(Prior Code, § 8-208)
§ 151.09 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the Floodway and Floodway Fringe Overlay District shall be
determined by scaling distances on the official zoning map. Where
interpretation is needed to the exact location of the boundaries of the
districts as shown on the official zoning map, as for example where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions,
the enforcement officer shall make the necessary interpretation. In such cases
where the interpretation is contested, the Board of Zoning Appeals will resolve
the dispute. The base flood elevation for the point in question shall be the
governing factor in locating the district boundary on the land. The person
contesting the location of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to present his or her case to the Board and to submit his or her
own technical evidence, if desired.
(Prior Code, § 8-209)
§ 151.10 COMPLIANCE.
   No development located within known flood hazard areas of the community
shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 8-210)
§ 151.11 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provision of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Prior Code, § 8-211)
§ 151.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, shall be liberally construed in favor
of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 8-212)
§ 151.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas outside
Floodway and Floodway Fringe District boundaries or land uses permitted within
such district will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the village or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or
from any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 8-213)
§ 151.14 APPLICATION FOR APPEAL.
   Where a request for a permit to develop or a variance is denied by the Chief
Building Inspector, the applicant may apply for such permit or variance
directly to the Board of Zoning Appeals. Said Board may grant or deny such
request by appropriate resolution adopted within 90 days after the date of such
application to said body.
(Prior Code, § 8-215)
§ 151.15 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment, as established by the Village Board, shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Chief Building Inspector in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the County District Court as provided in
Neb. RS 19-912.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors and standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordnance
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
(Prior Code, § 8-224)
§ 151.16 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in this section have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
jurisdiction required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing good and sufficient
cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant and a determination that the granting of
a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety or extraordinary public expense, or create nuisances, cause fraud
on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given a written
notice that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased
risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. (Prior Code, § 8-225)
§ 151.17 NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A structure or the use of structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not now in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   No such use or substantial improvement of that use shall be
expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a way which increases its non-
conformity;
      (2)   If such use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The Utility
Department shall notify the Chief Building Inspector in writing of instances of
non-conforming uses where utility services have been discontinued for a period
of four months; and
      (3)   Uses or adjuncts thereof which are or become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
   (B)   If any residential non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any
means, including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more than
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred within
those areas identified as Floodway (FW). This limitation does not include the
cost of any alterations to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, building or safety codes or regulations or the cost of any
alterations of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
   (C)   If any non-residential non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by
any means, including flood, it shall not be reconstructed if the cost is more
than 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred,
except if it is reconstructed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter. This limitation does not include the cost of any alterations to comply
with existing state or local health, sanitary, building or safety codes or
regulations or the cost of any alterations of a structure listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Prior Code, § 8-226)
§ 151.18 AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the National Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq.; provided, however, that no such action may be taken
until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest
and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least 15 days’ notice of
the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village. The regulations of this chapter are in compliance
with the National Flood Insurance Program regulations as published in 44 C.F.R.
Parts 59, 60, 65 and 70, and the 1967 Nebraska Floodplains Regulations Act,
being Neb. RS 31-1001 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 8-228)
FLOOD DISTRICTS
§ 151.30 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The mapped floodplain areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter are
hereby divided into the two following districts: Floodway Overlay District (FW)
and a Floodway Fringe Overlay District (FF), as identified in the official
floodplain study. Within these districts, all uses not meeting the standards of
this chapter and those standards of the underlying zoning district shall be
prohibited. These zones shall be consistent with the numbered and unnumbered A
Zones as identified in the flood insurance study provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration.
(Prior Code, § 8-216)
§ 151.31 STANDARDS FOR THE FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT AND THE FLOODWAY FRINGE
OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   No permit for development shall be granted for new construction,
substantial improvement and other improvements, including the placement of
manufactured homes within the identified floodplain, unless the conditions of
this section are satisfied.
   (B)   All areas identified as unnumbered A Zones by the Federal Insurance
Administration are subject to inundation of the 100-year flood; however, the
water surface elevation was not provided. The unnumbered A Zones shall be
subject to all development provisions of this chapter. If flood insurance study
data is not available, the community shall utilize any base flood elevation
data currently available within its area of jurisdiction.
   (C)   New construction, subdivision proposals, substantial improvement,
prefabricated buildings, placement of manufactured homes and other developments
shall require:
      (1)   Design or anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters and on-site waste
disposal systems to be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination;
      (3)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage, utilizing
methods and practices that minimize flood damages and with electrical, heating
ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding;
      (4)   All utility and sanitary facilities be elevated or to flood proofed
one foot above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (5)   That until a floodway has been designated, no development including
landfill may be permitted within the identified floodplain unless the applicant
for the land use has demonstrated that the proposed use, when combined with all
other existing and reasonably anticipated uses, will not increase the water
surface elevation of the 100-year flood more than one foot on the average
cross-section of the area in which the development or landfill is located as
shown in the official floodplain study incorporated by reference: §
151.04.;
      (6)   In regard to storage of material and equipment:
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of
flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive or that could be injurious to human,
animal or plant life be prohibited; and
         (b)   Storage of other material or equipment be allowed if not subject
to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or if
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
      (7)   In regard to subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, assurance that
all such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage; all
public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems, are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and proposals for development, including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, of five acres or 50 lots, whichever is lesser,
include within such proposals regulatory flood elevation.
(Prior Code, § 8-217)
§ 151.32 FLOODWAY FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Any use permitted in §
151.33 shall be permitted in the Floodway Fringe Overlay District. No use shall
be permitted in the District unless the standards of §
151.31 are met.
(Prior Code, § 8-218)
   (B)   Standards for new construction or substantial improvements. The
following standards shall apply:
      (1)    Require new construction or substantial improvements of
residential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
one foot above the base flood elevation;
      (2)   Require new construction or substantial improvements of non-
residential structures to have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, to be flood proofed so that below such a level the
structure is water tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
division (B)(2) are satisfied; and
      (3)   Require for all new construction and substantial improvements that
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall
be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting
this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
(Prior Code, § 8-219)
   (C)   Standards within AH Zones. Adequate drainage paths around structures
on slopes shall be required in order to guide flood waters around and away from
proposed structures.
(Prior Code, § 8-220)
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes.
      (1)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured homes must be anchored in accordance
with local building codes of FEMA guidelines. In the event that over-the-top
frame ties to ground anchors are used, the following specific requirements (or
their equivalent) shall be met:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations
and manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
         (d)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      (2)   It is required that all manufactured homes to be placed within
Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM, be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above
the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system in accordance with the provisions of this division (D).
(Prior Code, § 8-221)
   (E)   Standards within AO Zones. Located within the areas of special flood
hazard are areas designed as AO Zones. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply with AO Zones.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as two feet above the depth number
specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number
is specified).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as two feet above
the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities be completely flood proofed to or
above that level so that any space below that level is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes shall be
required in order to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Prior Code, § 8-222)
§ 151.33 FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Only uses having a low flood damage potential and not obstructing
flood flows shall be permitted within the Floodway District to the extent that
they are not prohibited by any other ordinance and provided they do not require
structures, fill or storage of materials or equipment. No use shall increase
the flood levels of the base flood elevation for:
      (1)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, nurseries and
forestry;
      (2)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking and play areas;
      (3)   Non-residential areas such as loading areas, parking and airport
landing strips; and
      (4)   Public and private recreational uses such as golf courses, archery
ranges, picnic grounds, parks, wildlife and nature preserves. New placement of
residential structures, including manufactured homes, is prohibited within the
identified Floodway (FW) area.
   (B)   Replacement of manufactured homes in existing manufactured home parks
and subdivisions is prohibited unless the conditions of this chapter are
complied with.
   (C)   In Zone A unnumbered, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any
floodway data available through federal, state or other sources in meeting the
standards of this section.
(Prior Code, § 8-223) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter, or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village or other
appropriate authority from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-227)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision regulations are hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of
the regulations can be found in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2001)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Code is hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of the Code can
be found in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2001)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section          Code Section
3-501 et seq.            34.53
9-201 et seq.            150.080
9-255.07                 110.080
9-255.09                 110.080
9-301 et seq.            150.080
9-401 et seq.            150.080
9-601 et seq.            34.01;
                         150.080
9-330                    110.080
9-332                    110.080
9-601 to 9-653           110.080
9-632                    110.080
10-101 through 10-145    34.12
11-101                   30.005;
                         30.046
11-104                   30.045
11-105                   30.045
11-109                   30.045
11-110                   30.045
11-111                   30.045
11-112                   30.045
11-113                   30.045
11-114                   30.045
11-115                   30.045
11-116                   30.045
11-117                   30.045
11-118                   30.045
                         34.29;
13-501 et seq.           34.31;
                         34.35
13-503                   34.01
13-504                   34.28
13-505                   34.28
13-506                   34.29
13-507                   34.29
13-508                   34.30;
                         34.56
13-509                   34.30;
                         34.55
13-509.01                34.27
13-509.02                34.27
13-510                   34.33
13-511                   34.34
13-518 to 13-522         34.29;
                         34.30
13-518 through 13-522    34.34
13-519                   33.04
13-606                   34.02
13-609                   34.14
13-801 et seq.           30.004;
                         34.53
13-903                   34.05
13-2501 et seq.          34.53
13-3401 et seq.          34.56
16-318(3)                31.06
16-714 through 16-716    34.10
17-202                   30.003
17-203                   30.003
17-204                   30.005
17-205                   30.023
17-207                   10.99;
                         30.004
17-208                   31.01
17-209                   30.061
                         30.003;
17-209.02                30.061;
                         31.03
17-210                   30.006;
                         30.095
17-505                   10.99;
                         30.090
17-506                   34.50
17-507                   34.51
17-540                   34.11
17-556                   130.01
17-567                   94.01
17-568.01                34.03
17-568.02                34.03
17-602                   33.03
                         30.045;
17-604                   30.061;
                         31.01
17-605                   31.05
17-606                   31.06
17-606(2)                31.06
17-607                   34.09
17-608                   34.11
17-609                   34.11
17-610                   31.07
17-611                   30.061
17-612                   30.061
                         30.093;
17-613                   30.095—
                         30.097;
                         34.03
17-614                   30.093;
                         30.098
17-615                   30.096
17-616                   30.093
17-701                   34.25
17-702                   34.08;
                         34.54
17-703                   34.06
17-706                   34.31
17-708                   34.04
17-709                   34.04
17-710                   34.07
17-711                   34.04
17-714                   34.05
17-715                   34.05
17-720                   34.10
17-904                   54.06
17-1237 et seq.          34.11
17-1269 et seq.          34.11
18-131                   30.095
18-132                   30.090
18-305 through 18-312    30.062
18-412.01                34.03
18-1214                  34.57
18-1216                  34.06
18-1736                  71.15
18-1737                  71.15
18-1701                  31.05
18-1720                  10.99;
                         30.004
18-1722                  10.99
18-1756                  34.03
18-1801 through 18-1805  34.12
18-2101 et seq.          34.53
18-2102.01               32.01
18-2715                  32.01
                         34.25;
18-2801 et seq.          34.28;
                         34.34;
                         34.35
18-2803                  34.35
18-2804                  34.02;
                         34.35
18-2805                  34.35
18-2806                  34.35
18-2807                  34.35
18-2808                  34.35
19-901 et seq.           32.01
19-901                   151.02
19-903                   32.01
19-912                   151.15
19-915                   30.098
19-916                   32.01
19-922                   30.090
19-925 through 19-933    32.01
19-926                   32.01
19-927                   32.01
19-928                   32.01
19-929                   32.01
19-930 to 19-933         32.01
19-1101                  31.06
19-1102                  31.05
19-1103                  31.05;
                         31.06
19-1301                  34.08
19-1302                  34.08
19-1303                  34.08
19-1304                  34.08
19-1309                  34.52
19-1310                  34.52
19-1311                  34.52
19-1312                  34.52
19-2902                  34.02
19-2903                  34.02
19-2904                  34.02
19-2905                  34.02
19-2906 through 19-2909  34.02
19-3101                  30.009
19-3701                  30.097
23-114                   151.02
23-122                   31.05
25-505.01                33.10
25-2703                  30.090
29-4013                  130.46
29-4015 et seq.          130.45
31-1001 et seq.          151.18
                         33.01;
32-101 et seq.           33.04;
                         34.08;
                         34.53
32-110                   33.03
32-115                   33.03
32-404                   33.01;
                         33.05
32-405                   33.04;
                         33.11
32-532                   30.003
32-554                   30.003
32-556                   33.01
32-557                   30.003;
                         33.05
32-559                   33.04
32-560                   30.008;
                         30.009
32-560 through 32-572    30.008
32-561                   30.008
32-562                   33.11
32-564                   33.04;
                         33.07
32-567 to 32-570         33.10
32-569                   30.008
32-574                   33.10
32-602                   30.003
32-604                   30.003
32-606                   33.07
32-606.01                33.07;
                         33.10
32-607                   33.07
32-607(2)                33.07
32-608                   33.08;
                         33.09
32-615                   33.09
32-616                   33.09
32-617                   33.09
32-618                   33.09
32-621                   33.09
32-622                   33.07
32-625                   33.07
32-625(2)                33.09
32-627                   33.07;
                         33.09
32-628                   33.09
32-628 through 32-631    34.53
32-629                   33.09;
                         33.10
32-630                   33.09;
                         33.10
32-632                   33.10
32-710                   33.09
32-802                   33.02;
                         34.53
32-918                   33.11
32-952 through 32-959    33.04
32-1202                  33.04
32-1301                  33.10
32-1302                  33.10
32-1303                  33.10
32-1304                  33.10
32-1305                  33.10
32-1306                  33.10
32-1307                  33.10
32-1308                  30.008;
                         33.10
32-1309                  33.10
32-1525                  33.11
33-141                   31.06
39-601 to 39-6,122       72.47
45-601 et seq.           34.13
45-623                   34.13
48-1503                  34.03
49-1408                  30.062
49-1425                  30.062
49-1499.03               30.062
49-1499.04               30.062
49-14,102                30.062
49-14,103.01             30.062
49-14,103.02             30.062
49-14,103.03             30.062
49-14,103.04             30.062
49-14,103.05             30.062
49-14,103.06             30.062
51-201                   34.53
51-215                   34.08
51-216                   34.08
51-501                   34.53
Chapter 53, Article 1    110.080
53-101 et seq.           111.01
53-101 through 53-1,222  150.080
Chapter 60, Article 1    72.45
60-101 et seq.           34.57
60-101 through 60-197    72.045
Chapter 60, Article 3    72.45
60-301 et seq.           34.57
60-301 through 60-3,258  72.045
60-302.01                71.15
60-331.01                71.15
60-331.02                71.15
60-352.01                71.15
60-3,104                 34.57
60-3,113                 71.15
Chapter 60, Article 4    72.45
60-4,126                 72.071
Chapter 60, Article 5    72.45
60-501 through 60-582    72.045
60-601 through 60-6,383  72.047
Chapter 60, Article 17   72.45
70-624.04                30.062
70-1602                  51.47
70-1603                  51.47
70-1604                  51.47
70-1607                  51.47
70-1608 to 17-1614       51.47
70-1615                  51.47
71-1637                  34.53
71-1908 to 71-1923       130.46
73-101 et seq.           34.03
77-1601                  34.55
77-1606                  34.53;
                         34.55
77-1632                  34.55
77-1633                  34.55;
                         34.56
77-1702                  34.14
77-2201                  31.06
77-2201 through 77-2215  31.06
77-2202                  31.06
77-2209                  31.06
77-2210                  31.06
77-2212                  31.06
77-2341                  34.11
77-2362                  34.09
77-2363                  34.09
77-2364                  34.09
77-2365.01               34.09;
                         34.10
77-2366                  34.09;
                         34.10
77-2386 et seq.          34.09
77-2386                  34.09
77-23,109                34.11
77-3442                  34.53
77-3443                  34.53
77-3444                  33.04;
                         34.53
79-3401 et seq.          34.55
81-145 through 81-162    34.03
81-829.51                34.34
84-304                   34.02
84-712 through 84-712.09 31.05;
                         31.06
84-712(2)                31.05
84-1201 et seq.          31.05
                         30.021;
84-1407 et seq.          30.027;
                         30.028
84-1408                  30.021
84-1409                  30.020;
                         34.56
84-1410                  30.026;
                         30.027
                         30.021;
84-1411                  30.024;
                         30.025
84-1411(8)               30.021
84-1412                  30.028
84-1413                  30.030;
                         30.032
                         
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-101              30.001
1-102              30.002
1-106              30.060
1-202              31.04
1-206              31.11
1-207              31.08
1-208              31.09
1-209              31.10
1-601              32.02
1-802              95.01
1-807              95.02
1-808              95.03
1-809              95.04
1-810              95.05
1-811              95.06
1-812              95.07
1-813              95.08
1-814              95.09
1-815              95.10
1-816              95.11
1-817              95.12
1-819              95.13
2-104              130.02
2-108              130.03
2-109              130.04
2-110              130.05
2-201              130.30
2-202              130.31
2-203              130.32
2-204              130.33
2-301              91.001
2-302              91.002
2-303              91.003
2-304              91.004
2-305              91.005
2-306              91.006
2-307              91.007;
                   91.999
2-308              91.008
2-309              91.009;
                   91.999
2-310              91.010
2-311              91.025
2-312              91.026
2-313              91.027
2-314              91.028
2-315              91.029
2-316              91.029
2-317              91.041
2-318              91.042
2-319              91.043
2-320              91.011;
                   91.999
2-321              91.012
2-322              91.013
2-323              91.999
2-401              91.055
2-402              91.056
2-403              91.057
2-404              91.058
2-405              91.059
2-406              91.999
2-501              91.070
2-502              91.071
2-503              91.072
2-504              91.073
2-505              91.074
2-506              91.075
2-507              91.999
2-601              93.30
2-602              93.31
2-603              93.32
2-604              93.33
2-605              93.34;
                   93.99
2-606              93.35
3-101              70.01
3-102              70.02
3-109              70.03
3-111              70.04
3-112              70.05
3-113              70.06
3-114              70.07
3-115              70.08
3-116              70.09
3-117              70.10
3-122              70.11
3-123              70.12
3-124              70.13
3-125              70.14
3-126              70.15
3-127              70.16
3-128              70.17
3-130              70.18
3-131              70.19
3-132              70.20
3-133              70.20
3-134              70.20
3-201              90.01
3-202              90.02
3-203              90.03
3-204              90.04
3-205              90.05
3-206              90.99
3-301              70.21
3-302              70.22
3-303              70.22
3-401              71.01
3-402              71.02
3-403              71.03
3-404              71.04
3-405              71.05
3-406              71.06
3-407              71.07
3-408              71.08
3-409              71.09
3-410              71.10
3-411              71.11
3-412              71.12
3-413              71.13
3-414              71.14
3-415              71.15;
                   71.99
3-501              72.001
3-502              72.002
3-503              72.015
3-504              72.016
3-505              72.030
3-506              72.031
3-507              72.045
3-508              72.046
3-509              72.047
3-510              72.048
3-511              72.049
3-512              72.050
3-601              70.99
4-101              110.001
4-102              110.002
4-103              110.003
4-104              110.004
4-105              110.005
4-106              110.006
4-201              150.045
4-202              150.046
4-203              150.047
4-301              111.01
4-302              111.02
4-303              111.03
4-304              111.04
4-305              111.05
4-306              111.06
4-307              111.07
4-308              111.08
4-309              111.09
4-310              111.10
4-311              111.11
4-312              111.12
4-313              111.13
4-314              111.14
4-315              111.15
4-316              111.16
4-317              111.17
4-318              111.18
4-319              111.19
4-320              111.20
4-321              111.21
4-322              111.22
4-323              111.23
4-324              111.24
4-325              111.25
4-326              111.26
4-327              111.27
4-328              111.28
4-329              111.29
4-401              150.015
4-402              150.016
4-403              150.030
4-405              150.017
4-408              150.018
4-411              150.019
4-501              150.060
4-502              150.061
4-503              150.062
4-504              150.063
4-505              150.064
4-506              150.065
4-507              150.066
4-508              150.067
4-509              150.068
4-511              150.069
4-901              110.020
4-902              110.021
4-903              110.022
4-904              110.023
4-1101             110.050
4-1102             110.051
4-1103             110.052
4-1104             110.053
5-102              94.03
5-103              94.04
5-105              94.05
5-201              94.20
5-202              94.21
5-203              94.22
5-204              94.23
5-205              94.24
5-206              94.25
5-207              94.26
5-208              94.27
5-209              94.28
5-210              94.29
5-211              94.30
5-212              94.31
5-213              94.32
5-301              94.45
5-302              94.46
5-303              94.47
5-304              94.48
5-305              94.49
5-306              94.50
5-307              94.51
5-308              94.52
5-309              94.53
5-310              94.54
5-401              94.65
5-402              94.66
5-403              94.67
5-404              94.68
6-101              51.01
6-102              51.02
6-103              51.03
6-104              51.04
6-105              51.15
6-106              51.16
6-107              51.17
6-108              51.18
6-109              51.45
6-110              51.46
6-111              51.47
6-112              51.48
6-113              51.19
6-114              51.20
6-115              51.21
6-116              51.22
6-117              51.23
6-118              51.24
6-119              51.25
6-120              51.26
6-121              51.27
6-122              51.28
6-123              51.29
6-124              51.30
6-301              52.01
6-302              52.02
6-303              52.03
6-304              52.04
6-305              52.05
6-306              52.06
6-307              52.07
6-308              52.08
6-309              52.09
6-310              52.10
6-312              52.25
6-313              52.25
6-314              52.25
6-315              52.25
6-316              52.26
6-317              52.26
6-318              52.26
6-319              52.26
6-320              52.26
6-321              52.26
6-322              52.27
6-323              52.27
6-324              52.27
6-325              52.27
6-326              52.27
6-327              52.27
6-328              52.27
6-329              52.28
6-330              52.29
6-331              52.30
6-332              52.30
6-333              52.30
6-334              52.32
6-335              52.33
6-336              52.34
6-337              52.34
6-338              52.35
6-339              52.36
6-340              52.12
6-341              52.12
6-342              52.12
6-343              52.13
6-344              52.14
6-401              53.01
6-402              53.02
6-403              53.03
6-404              53.04
6-501              54.01
6-502              54.02
6-503              54.03
6-504              54.04
6-505              54.05
6-506              54.06
6-507              54.07
6-508              54.08
6-509              54.09
6-510              54.10
6-511              54.11
6-512              54.12
6-513              54.13
6-514              54.14
6-515              54.15
6-516              54.16
6-517              54.17
6-518              54.18
6-519              54.19
6-520              54.99
7-101              92.01
7-102              92.02
7-103              92.03
7-104              92.04
7-105              92.05
7-106              92.06
7-107              92.07
7-108              92.08
7-109              92.09
7-110              92.10
7-111              92.11
7-112              92.12
7-113              92.13
7-114              92.14
7-115              92.15
7-116              92.16
7-117              92.17
7-118              92.18
7-119              92.19
7-120              92.99
7-201              92.20
7-301              92.99
8-201              151.01
8-202              151.02
8-203              151.03
8-204              151.04
8-205              151.05
8-206              151.06
8-207              151.07
8-208              151.08
8-209              151.09
8-210              151.10
8-211              151.11
8-212              151.12
8-213              151.13
8-215              151.14
8-216              151.30
8-217              151.31
8-218              151.32
8-219              151.32
8-220              151.32
8-221              151.32
8-222              151.32
8-223              151.33
8-224              151.15
8-225              151.16
8-226              151.17
8-227              151.99
8-228              151.18
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
100      10-2-1995   10.01—
                     10.11
101      11-6-1995   51.03
                     150.001;
–      12-3-2001   152.01;
                     153.01
2006-02  6-12-2006   130.45—
                     130.47
                     93.01—
2010-03  7-5-2010    93.18;
                     93.99
–      1-5-2015    30.060
2017-02  10-5-2017   72.065—
                     72.074
2018-02  12-3-2018   110.080
2019-02  9-9-2019    50.04;
                     51.47
2019-05  9-9-2019    54.02
2023-01  9-7-2023    50.01—
                     50.03
2023-02  9-7-2023    52.11
2023-03  9-7-2023    51.46
                    
 
