CITY CODE
of
WHITEFISH, MONTANA
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 25-06, passed 6-16-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Whitefish, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-06, passed June 16, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 03-29
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WHITEFISH, MONTANA, ADOPTING
THE CITY OF WHITEFISH, MONTANA CITY CODE.
   BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Whitefish, Montana as
follows:
   Section 1: Pursuant to the provisions of § 7-5-107, MCA, and from and after
the date of passage of this ordinance, the City Code of the City of Whitefish,
Montana, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing the compilation of
all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes made to said
ordinances, under the direction of the City Council, shall be accepted in all
courts without question as the official code and law of the City as enacted by
the City Council. The City Code shall contain all ordinances adopted by the
City Council after the adoption of Ordinance No. 03-19 on July 7, 2003, even if
such ordinances have not yet been inserted into the most recent loose-leaf
compilation.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding, together with the continuous supplement
service, provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., or a similar company
satisfactory to the City, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and
permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the
official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in the
proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that such office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of such ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in such official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed; provided, however, that
Section 3 of Ordinance No. 00-07, adopted by the Whitefish City Council on June
19, 2000, which adopted the City’s current Sign Ordinance, provided that the
previous Sign Ordinance shall remain in force and effect for the purpose of
allowing and facilitating the enforcement of existing violations, and provided
that in taking enforcement action with respect to a sign violation, the City
shall be entitled to utilize enforcement procedure and provisions contained in
either Sign Ordinance, as the City chooses on a case-by-case basis; and
provided further, that Section 3 of Ordinance No. 00-07 is hereby re-adopted,
in order to allow the City to continue to use the previous Sign Ordinance for
enforcement purposes.
   Section 6: That in the event any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph,
section or other part of the amendments set forth herein is held invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall affect only that part held
invalid, and the remaining provisions thereof shall continue in full force and
effect.
   Section 7: This Ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days after its
adoption by the City Council of the City of Whitefish, Montana, and signing by
the Mayor thereof.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WHITEFISH, MONTANA,
THIS 6TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 2003.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
WHITEFISH CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alteration Of Code Book
1-1-1: TITLE:
On adoption by the city council, this city code shall constitute the official
city code of the city of Whitefish. This code of ordinances shall be known and
cited as the WHITEFISH CITY CODE, and is published by authority of the mayor
and city council and shall be kept up to date as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to that position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal document. (Ordinance A-243, 9-4-1973; amd.
2003 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts of this state as the ordinances of
the city of general and permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances
enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
Prosecutions for violations of the city's ordinances and actions based thereon
shall refer to the Whitefish city code sections as well as the underlying
ordinance upon which the prosecution or action is based. Amendments to any
ordinance or portions thereof shall also refer to the Whitefish city code
sections under which such ordinances are codified. (Ord. A-243, 9-4-1973)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this city code. Each replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (2003 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATION OF CODE BOOK:
No person shall alter, change, replace or deface in any way any section or any
page of this city code in a manner that the meaning of any phrase or order may
be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may be inserted according to the
official instructions when so authorized by the mayor and city council. The
city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the
official copies maintained in the office of the city clerk, together with
updating any electronic versions of the code.
Any person having custody of an official copy of this city code shall make
every effort to maintain it in a current and efficient manner. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when they are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the city
clerk. Code books, including electronic versions, in the possession of
officials and other interested persons shall remain the property of the city
and shall be returned to the office of the city clerk when directed by order of
the city council. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed except such as are referred to as being still enforced
or are by necessary implication reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), from which are excluded the
following ordinances which are not repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting rights to persons or corporations;
contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or
the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the city; and all special
ordinances. (2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by
virtue of the preceding section, excepting as this city code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case the city code shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003
Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against the former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or any way whatever to effect such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
affect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is the ordinance making any new provisions upon
the same subject or any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abetting any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this city code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The mayor and city
council hereby declares that they would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2003 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Whitefish, Flathead County, Montana, or the area within the
territorial limits of the city, and such territory outside of the city over
which the city has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or
statutory provision.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Whitefish, Montana.
CITY MANAGER: "City administrator" as used in the charter of the city and
elsewhere in this code shall mean the city manager.
CODE: The municipal code of the city of Whitefish.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which an act is to be done. It shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day; and if the last
day is a Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
COUNTY: The county of Flathead, state of Montana.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Whitefish".
FISCAL YEAR: From July 1 of each year to June 30 of the next year.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Whitefish".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Montana.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (Ord. A-207, 2-20-1973; amd. 2003 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF CODE
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of General Penalty Provisions
1-4-3: Definitions
1-4-4: Municipal Infractions; Penalties
1-4-5: Civil Citations; Service And Requirements
1-4-6: Court Proceedings
1-4-7: Disposition Following Judgment
1-4-8: Appeals Following Judgment
1-4-9: Issuance Of Civil Citations Not Grounds For Further Legal Action
1-4-10: Environmental Actions
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any person prosecuted and found to have
been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of this code or failing to
comply with any of the mandatory requirements of the ordinances of the city,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00), payable to the city, or by imprisonment
not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day
that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense. (Ord. 09-
20, 10-19-2009)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF GENERAL PENALTY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided, the general penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this chapter shall be applicable to every section of this code the
same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one misdemeanor penalty shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
1-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
MUNICIPAL INFRACTION: Any violation of this code, as amended, which has been
specifically declared to be a municipal infraction under provisions of this
code.
OFFICER: Any employee or official authorized to enforce provisions of this
code, as amended.
REPEAT VIOLATION: A recurring violation of the same section of this code. Each
day that a violation occurs or is permitted to exist constitutes a separate and
distinct infraction. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
1-4-4: MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   A municipal infraction is a civil offense and for a proven violation, a
civil penalty may be imposed.
   B.   All police officers, code compliance officers, the city manager, and
the fire marshal are authorized to enforce the city code and may issue a civil
citation to a person who commits a municipal infraction.
   C.   For a first violation, a civil penalty of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) shall be imposed.
   D.   For each repeat violation, a civil penalty not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) shall be imposed.
   E.   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this chapter does not preclude
the city from seeking alternative relief from the court in the same action;
provided, however, that the city must elect whether to treat a specific
incident as a municipal infraction, subject to the penalty set forth in this
section, or as a misdemeanor, punishable as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this chapter. If a violation is repeated, the city may treat the
initial violation as a municipal infraction, and the repeat violation as a
misdemeanor, or vice versa. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 25-01, 1-21-
2025)
1-4-5: CIVIL CITATIONS; SERVICE AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any officer who is authorized by the city to enforce a municipal code
or regulation may issue a civil citation to a person who commits a municipal
infraction.
   B.   The citation may be served on the alleged violator by any one of the
following methods:
      1.   Personal service; or
      2.   By certified mail addressed to the defendant at the defendant's last
known mailing address, return receipt requested; or
      3.   By publication, in the manner described in rule 4D(5) of the Montana
rules of civil procedure.
   C.   A copy of the citation must be retained by the issuing officer and one
copy be sent to or filed with the clerk of the Whitefish municipal court.
   D.   The citation shall serve as notification that a municipal infraction
has been committed and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the defendant;
      2.   The name or description of the infraction attested to by the officer
issuing the citation;
      3.   The location and time of the infraction;
      4.   The amount of the civil penalty to be assessed or the alternative
relief sought, or both;
      5.   The manner, location and time in which the penalty may be paid;
      6.   The time and place of court appearance; and
      7.   The penalty for failure to appear in court. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
1-4-6: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   If the total amount of civil penalties does not exceed three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00), the matter shall be tried before the municipal court judge
in the same manner as a small claim. If the total amount of civil penalties
assessed exceeds three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), the matter must be tried
before a district court judge.
   B.   The city has the burden of proof that the municipal infraction occurred
and that the defendant committed the infraction. The proof must be by clear and
convincing evidence.
   C.   The court shall ensure that the defendant has received a copy of the
charges and that the defendant understands the charges. The defendant may
question all witnesses who appear for the city and produce evidence or
witnesses on the defendant's behalf.
   D.   The defendant may be represented by counsel of the defendant's own
choosing and at the defendant's own expense.
   E.   The defendant may answer by admitting or denying the infraction.
   F.   If a municipal infraction is proven, the court shall enter judgment
against the defendant. If the infraction is not proven, the court shall dismiss
the charges.
   G.   If the person named in the citation is shown to have been served with
the civil citation in the proper manner and, without good cause, fails to
appear in response to the citation, judgment shall be entered against the
person by the court. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
1-4-7: DISPOSITION FOLLOWING JUDGMENT:
   A.   A person against whom judgment is entered shall pay court costs and
fees as in small claims court under title 25, chapter 35, Montana Code
Annotated, in addition to the penalties imposed by the court. If the action is
dismissed by the court, the city is liable for the court costs and court fees.
   B.   All penalties and forfeitures collected by the court for municipal
infractions shall be remitted to the city in the same manner as fines and
forfeitures collected for criminal offenses.
   C.   In addition to the imposition of civil penalties authorized by law
against a defendant, the city may seek alternative relief from the court in the
same action. Alternative relief may consist of any of the following:
      1.   Direct that payment of the civil penalty be suspended or deferred
under conditions imposed by the court; or
      2.   Order the defendant to abate or cease the violation; or
      3.   Authorize the city to abate or correct the violation; or
      4.   Order the city's costs for abatement or correction of the violation
be entered as a judgment against the defendant or assessed against the property
where the violation occurred, or both.
         a.   The amount of costs imposed by the municipal court shall not
exceed the jurisdictional amount for a money judgment in a civil action under
section 3-11-103, Montana Code Annotated.
         b.   If the city seeks abatement or correction costs in excess of the
jurisdictional limit provided in subsection C4a of this section, the matter
shall be referred to district court for hearing and entry of an appropriate
order. The procedure for hearing in the district court shall be the same
procedure as that for a small claim appealed under section 25-35-803, Montana
Code Annotated.
   D.   A defendant who wilfully violates the terms of an order imposed by the
court is guilty of contempt. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
1-4-8: APPEALS FOLLOWING JUDGMENT:
   A.   The defendant or the city may file a motion for a new trial or may
appeal the decision to district court.
   B.   A factual determination made by the trial court, supported by
substantial evidence as shown on the record, is binding for purposes of appeal
relating to the violation at issue, but is not admissible or binding as to any
future violations for the same or similar ordinance provision by the same
defendant. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
1-4-9: ISSUANCE OF CIVIL CITATIONS NOT GROUNDS FOR FURTHER LEGAL ACTION:
Except for wilful or wanton misconduct on the part of the city, the issuance of
a civil citation for a municipal infraction or the ensuing court proceedings do
not provide an action for false arrest, false imprisonment, or malicious
prosecution. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
1-4-10: ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS:
An action brought by the city for an environmental violation does not preclude,
and is in addition to, any other enforcement action that may be brought under
state law. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Ordinances
1-5-3: Right Of Entry For Inspections
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
A seal in a circular form with the words CITY OF WHITEFISH, MONTANA on the
outer circle, and in the interior and center of the circle, the words CORPORATE
SEAL shall be the seal of the city, to be used in all cases in which, by the
laws and customs of nations it is necessary to use a seal by a corporation.
(Ord. 28, 6-20-1907; amd. Ord. 71, 6-23-1911)
1-5-2: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Action On Ordinance:
      1.   Time Requirement: At least twelve (12) days shall intervene between
the presentation and final passage of an ordinance. (Ord. 12, 2-7-1906; amd.
Ord. 42, 6-1-1908; 2003 Code)
      2.   Votes Recorded: The ayes and nays must be called and recorded on the
final passage of any ordinance.
      3.   Procedures After Passage: Except as otherwise provided by the laws
of the state, no ordinance shall become operative as a law of the city unless,
after final passage by the city council, it shall in the order herein
presented: (Ord. 12, 2-7-1906)
         a.   Be signed by the mayor or deputy mayor;
         b.   Be entered upon the ordinance book in full;
         c.   Have the attest thereto of the city clerk executed on the
ordinance, immediately at the end of the official copy of such ordinance;
   B.   Ordinance Book: Immediately upon the final passage by the city council
and the signature of the mayor or deputy mayor on the ordinance, the city clerk
must enter upon the pages of the ordinance book, in its proper place, a full,
true and correct copy of such ordinance, as finally passed and signed, Not
later than the next regular meeting thereafter, the signature of the mayor or
deputy mayor, and the attest thereof by the city clerk, must be executed on the
ordinance. (Ord. 12, 2-7-1906; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Posting: After the first reading and prior to the second reading of an
ordinance, the city clerk shall post a complete copy of the ordinance on a
bulletin board within the city clerk's office, and shall make copies available
to the public. Posting shall continue until thirty (30) days after the second
reading of such ordinance. Posting need not be noted on the ordinance or in the
ordinance book. No other posting or publishing of an ordinance shall be
required. The failure to post an ordinance shall not render the ordinance
invalid. (2003 Code)
1-5-3: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS:
Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any ordinance or
resolution, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe there exists an
ordinance or resolution violation in any building or upon any premises within
the jurisdiction of the city, any authorized official of the city may, upon
presentation of proper credentials, enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty imposed upon him by
ordinance; provided, that except in emergency situations or when consent of the
owner and/or occupant to the inspection has been otherwise obtained, he shall
give the owner and/or occupant, if they can be located after reasonable effort,
twenty four (24) hours' written notice of the authorized official's intention
to inspect. The notice transmitted to the owner and/or occupant shall state
that the property owner has the right to refuse entry and that in the event
such entry is refused, inspection may be made only upon issuance of a search
warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event the owner and/or occupant
refuses entry after such request has been made, the official is empowered to
seek assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining such
entry. (Ord. A-232, 5-7-1973)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
1-6-1: Meetings
1-6-2: Order Of Business
1-6-3: Duties, Responsibilities And Roles Of Mayor And Councilors
1-6-4: Deputy Mayor
 
Notes
  1. See
1 title 2, chapter 1 of this code for standing and ad hoc committees of the
  city.
1-6-1: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold its regular monthly
meetings on the first and third Mondays of each and every month in the city
hall at seven ten o'clock (7:10) P.M., unless the city council, by motion,
cancels a specific regular meeting. (Ord. 193, 6-1-1926; amd. Ord. A-198, 2-5-
1973; Ord. A-417, 8-9-1982; Ord. 84-3, 1-3-1984; Ord. 02-05, 3-4-2002; 2003
Code; Ord. 03-24, 9-2-2003)
   B.   Meetings Via Telephone: City councilors who are unable to attend a
council meeting for any reason shall be entitled to participate in a council
meeting via telephone in accordance with the standards set forth herein. A city
councilor who wishes to participate in a council meeting via telephone shall
notify the city manager, or his or her designee, as soon as he or she becomes
aware of the need to do so. Participation by telephone shall be allowed only if
a telephone connection is arranged so that the city councilor can hear all
comments occurring at the meeting, including public comment, and those in
attendance at the meeting can hear the city councilor. A city councilor who
desires to participate via telephone must participate for the entire length of
the meeting, including the public session. If the city councilor is unable to
personally attend the meeting: 1) because he or she is involved in city
business, or 2) because a special meeting or emergency meeting was called and
the lack of advance notice prevented attendance, then the city shall pay all
costs associated with the telephone call. Otherwise, the city councilor shall
be responsible for all costs of the telephone call.
The council hereby ratifies any action taken in the past by city councilors who
participated in council meetings via telephone. (Ord. 03-24, 9-2-2003)
1-6-2: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The rules and regulations in this section shall hereafter be the rules
governing the proceedings of the city council.
   A.   Call To Order; Mayor's Duties:
      1.   At the hour appointed for the meeting, the city council shall be
called to order by the mayor or in his absence, by the deputy mayor, or in the
absence of both, by another member of the city council chosen by the members
present to conduct said meeting upon the appearance of a quorum, and the city
council shall proceed to do business in the order as set by a written agenda
prepared by the city manager.
      2.   The mayor, or in his absence the deputy mayor, shall preserve order
and decorum and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal of
any ruling to the city council.
   B.   Addressing The Council:
      1.   Recognition: Every member previous to speaking, shall address the
presiding officer, but shall not proceed until recognized and named by the
presiding officer.
      2.   First Speaker: When two (2) or more members address the presiding
officer, he shall decide who is to speak first.
      3.   Good Order: While a question is being put, no member shall walk
across or about the city council room or leave the same; and while a member is
speaking, no other member shall engage in private conversation or do anything
else to divert attention or interrupt the speaker.
      4.   Frequency Of Speaking: No member shall speak more than twice on the
same subject without leave of the presiding officer, nor more than once until
every member choosing to speak on the pending question has had an opportunity
to speak.
      5.   Out Of Order: No personalities or reflections injurious to the
feelings of any member or the harmony of the city council shall be allowed.
Anyone offending in this regard shall be called to order by the presiding
officer, and shall immediately take his seat unless permitted by the city
council to explain. If an appeal is taken from the decision of the chair, it
shall be decided without debate; and unless appealed from, the decision of the
chair shall stand.
   C.   Motions, Resolutions And Ordinances:
      1.   Whether In Writing Or Not: Motions and resolutions need not be in
writing in order to be considered by or acted upon by the city council,
provided that they are accurately reflected in the minutes of the city council
meeting; and provided further, that resolutions adopted by the city council
shall be reduced to writing and signed by the mayor, or in his absence the
deputy mayor, within fourteen (14) days of adoption. Ordinances need not be in
writing in order to be considered by or acted upon by the city council at the
first reading, provided that they are accurately reflected in the minutes of
the city council meeting; and provided further, that they are reduced to
writing prior to the second reading.
      2.   Requires Second: No motion shall be debated unless the same is
seconded and restated by the chair.
      3.   Withdrawal: After a motion has been stated by the presiding officer,
it shall be deemed in possession of the city council but may be withdrawn at
any time before amendment or decision by the mover, with the consent of his
second.
      4.   Precedence Of Motions: When a question is under debate, no motion
shall be entertained except:
      To adjourn;
      To lay on the table (table the question);
      For the previous question;
      To postpone to a day certain;
      To commit to a standing committee;
      To commit to a select committee;
      To amend;
      To postpone indefinitely;
      and these several motions shall have precedence in the order stated.
      5.   Adjournment: A motion to adjourn shall always be in order save when
a member is addressing the chair, or a vote is being taken. Motions to adjourn
and lay on the table (table a matter) shall not be debatable.
      6.   Reconsideration: For a period of six (6) months after an action is
taken by the city council, no motion for reconsideration shall be in order
unless made at the same meeting or the meeting following that on which the
decision was made, nor shall such motion be made save by one who voted with the
majority upon the adoption.
      7.   Change Of Subject Prohibited: No motion or proposition on a subject
different from that under consideration, shall be admitted under color of
amendment.
      8.   Name Of Proposer: In all cases, the name of the member proposing a
motion or resolution shall be entered with it on the city council minutes.
   D.   Questions:
      1.   Division Of Questions: If a question under consideration contains
more than one distinct proposition, any member may demand a division.
      2.   Previous Question: A member may "move the previous question", or
alternatively, move to "close debate" or to "vote now". All such motions shall
have the same effect. Such motions shall require a second, are not debatable
and require a two-thirds (2/3) vote for adoption. When such formality is
unnecessary, the presiding officer may end debate if no member objects.
   E.   Voting Requirements:
      1.   Members Required To Vote: Every member of the city council present
shall vote upon every question submitted to the city council, unless directly
interested or required by law to abstain, in which case he shall not vote.
      2.   Recording Vote: Upon the final passage of any ordinance or
resolution, the "ayes" and "noes" shall be entered upon the minutes, unless the
same is unanimously adopted. Any member may demand the "ayes" and "noes" upon
any question pending, if the demand is made before the vote is taken.
   F.   Priority Of Business: All questions relating to the priority of
business shall be decided without debate.
   G.   Item Placed On Future Agenda: If, during a city council meeting, at
least three (3) city council members want an item placed on the subsequent or a
future agenda, with the concurrence of the mayor and city administrator, that
item shall be placed on said subsequent or future agenda. If four (4) city
council members want an item placed on the subsequent or a future agenda, with
the concurrence of the city administrator, that item shall be placed on said
subsequent or future agenda.
   H.   Robert's Rules Of Order: These rules shall not be repealed, amended or
temporarily suspended except by a majority of the city council, and in all
parliamentary practice not herein provided for, "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall
govern as far as applicable. When the formality required by "Robert's Rules Of
Order" is unnecessary and if no member objects, the presiding officer may
dispense with strict compliance with such rules.
(Ord. 00-09, 8-21-2000; amd. Ord. 10-10, 5-3-2010; Ord. 23-18, 9-18-2023)
1-6-3: DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES AND ROLES OF MAYOR AND COUNCILORS:
   A.   Introduction:
      1.   Although Montana law allows any city to adopt its own charter, only
nineteen (19) of the one hundred twenty nine (129) Montana cities have done so.
The city of Whitefish is one of those nineteen (19) and as such its charter is
different from any other. As a result, if councilors have formed an opinion of
their roles through association with other cities or town, that impression may
not be correct in Whitefish. Despite its uniqueness, the city shares many
similarities with other cities that are governed by an elected city council but
administered by a professional city manager. This policy statement will explain
the mayor and councilors' role in the Whitefish council/city manager form of
government, and point out the unique aspects of the city's charter.
      2.   The city's charter treats the mayor somewhat differently than other
councilors. The mayor presides at all city council meetings, but the charter
allows the mayor to vote only in the event of a tie. For convenience and
brevity, when the terms "city council" or "councilor" are used in this policy
statement, they will generally refer to the city councilors and the mayor,
although there are a few references where the context or the provisions of the
city charter will indicate that only city councilors are implicated.
      3.   It is often said of a council/manager form of government that it is
the city council's job to set policy and the city manager's job to implement
that policy. While true, it is actually more complicated than that, and the
lines between creating and implementing policy can become blurred. This policy
statement is intended to help clarify the correct role of the city council and
the city manager. This policy statement is not intended to limit the city
council's collective power to accomplish its goals. It is intended to define
appropriate powers and duties in order to optimize the city's efficiency in
achieving the city council's collective goals and policies.
   B.   Broad Powers Of City Council: As the elected representatives of the
people of Whitefish, the mayor and city council are entrusted with setting the
general direction in which the city will proceed. The city charter states that
the city council is the "policy determining body" of the city. It is the
collective vision and wisdom of the mayor and city council that determine the
unique policies and projects that the city will undertake during their tenure.
The city council can best achieve its aims by collectively setting goals and
priorities, and by giving direction to the city manager so that he can then
accomplish what they have identified. When individual councilors believe that
the city is headed in the wrong direction, it is their right and responsibility
to raise the issue with the entire city council, who can then collectively
determine if a change is appropriate. On the other hand, an individual
councilor, acting on his own, who attempts to direct the city manager or staff
can undermine the collective goals and priorities of the city council. This
policy statement is intended to help identify the broad policy and goal setting
powers of the city council, the specific powers of the city council, and the
complimentary powers of the city manager and the staff that he supervises.
   C.   Specific Powers Of The City Council: Consistent with the council/
manager form of government, the city charter states that the city council is
the "legislative ... body" of the city. Among its chief duties are:
      1.   Appointing and removing the city manager.
      2.   Adopting an annual budget.
      3.   Providing for an audit of city accounts.
      4.   Adopting an administrative code and personnel system.
      5.   Conducting investigations into city affairs.
      6.   Appointing new councilors to fill vacancies.
The city council also has broad powers to provide for the exercise of all
powers and the performance of all duties of the city. These additional powers
include such typical city council duties as approving annexations,
subdivisions, zone changes, urban renewal projects, conditional use permits,
lakeshore construction permits; approving the purchase and sale of property;
creating committees and making committee appointments; adopting ordinances and
resolutions of all types; adopting goals and policies; approving the sale of
bonds; awarding contracts; initiating litigation; and many similar duties.
The city charter provides the mayor with the additional powers of presiding at
city council meetings and performing ceremonial duties on behalf of the city.
   D.   Collective Power Of The City Council vs. Powers Of Individual
Councilors:
      1.   As indicated above, acting collectively, the city council has broad
powers to determine the city's general direction, and also has specific powers
covering a host of legislative acts. Individual councilors, however, are
situated differently. There are two (2) primary limitations on the powers of
individual councilors. First, councilors can only act through the city council,
by majority vote. Second, all administration is to be handled by the city
manager and the staff that he supervises. These two (2) limitations are
discussed below.
      2.   City councilors only have legal authority when acting collectively.
Individual councilors, by themselves, have no legal powers. Outside of a city
council meeting, individual councilors are similar to ordinary citizens. As a
practical matter the city manager and city staff may give greater deference to
a councilor than to an ordinary citizen. It is human nature to do so. But
neither state law nor the city charter gives individual councilors decision
making powers.
      3.   State law empowers only the mayor to call a special meeting. If a
councilor believes that a special meeting is advisable, he should contact the
mayor to see if the mayor agrees that a special meeting is necessary.
   E.   City Council's Voting Responsibilities: Councilors are responsible for
voting on two (2) general types of city matters; legislative and quasi-judicial
matters. Both types are discussed below:
      1.   Legislative matters are those that affect a large group of people or
businesses, or the community itself, but with no particular applicant seeking
any special approval. For instance, an ordinance raising the city water rate
for everyone, an ordinance restricting fireworks within the city or a
resolution approving a bond issue to reconstruct the sewer plant, are all
examples of legislative matters. When voting on legislative matters, councilors
are free to be influenced by their own individual biases, and also free to take
public input at any time in forming their opinions.
      2.   Quasi-judicial matters, on the other hand, almost always involve an
applicant, who has asked the city for a particular privilege or permit. Rarely
is the general public affected as a whole. For instance, an applicant seeking a
conditional use permit, an applicant seeking a subdivision approval or an
applicant seeking a zone change are all examples of quasi-judicial matters. In
quasi-judicial matters, councilors act as judges, and so are required to
disregard any personal bias that they may have. In addition, councilors can
only receive public comment at the appropriate time, which is generally a
hearing before the city council. In voting on a quasi-judicial matter, a
councilor is generally asked to determine whether the applicant's proposal
complies with the criteria established in city ordinances.
It is important to recognize the distinction when voting on city council
matters. The city manager generally identifies in his report whether a matter
is legislative or quasi-judicial.
   F.   City Manager's Powers Under The City Charter: As if to emphasize that
councilors are empowered to act collectively but not individually, the city
charter specifies that the city manager has all administrative power. He
operates the city. Among those things that the city manager is empowered to do
are the following:
      1.   Direct, supervise and administer all city departments. This means
that the departments handling building inspection, planning, street
maintenance, water, sewer, solid waste, police, fire, parks and recreation,
general administrative, the city court clerk's office and all of the other city
functions answer only to the city manager.
      2.   Carry out the city council's policies.
      3.   Prepare the city council agenda.
      4.   Report to the city council on financial matters.
      5.   Sign contracts for the city.
      6.   Prepare and present the budget to the city council.
      7.   Hire and fire all city employees except the city attorney and the
city judge.
The charter goes even further. It identifies a few things that even the city
council, acting collectively, cannot do. For instance, in order to ensure that
the city manager can effectively supervise all city departments and all city
employees, the city council is prohibited from requiring the hiring or firing
of any city employees (although the city council may express its views to the
city manager). In fact, the city council is prohibited from giving any orders,
publicly or privately, to any employees that are supervised by the city
manager. These provisions underscore the principle that the city manager alone
is to manage the city, its departments and employees.
Given the significant responsibility of managing the entire city apparatus, and
the restrictions on councilors acting other than collectively, it follows that
the city manager must be given sufficient time to do his job. While the city
manager and other city staff are always willing to provide councilors with the
information needed to do their jobs, councilors should refrain from requiring a
great deal of staff time as it can prevent the staff from effectively
administering the city.
   G.   Specific Limitation On Individual Councilors: Based on the framework
described above, there are several limitations that councilors should observe.
Among them are:
      1.   As discussed above, the city council has full charge of setting the
general direction of the city. Councilors should draw a distinction between the
high level policy setting duties of the city council and the day to day
management duties of the city manager and staff. If it is a management duty,
individual councilors should not interfere.
      2.   While councilors' thoughts and ideas are helpful and welcome,
councilors should not independently direct or pressure the city manager or the
staff to take a particular action. They should act collectively through the
city council. If a councilor wants something important accomplished, he should
persuade fellow councilors and have it adopted as city policy.
      3.   Even in city council meetings, councilors should act collectively. A
councilor should not say to the city manager, "I want to see this done."
Instead, he should make a motion so that the city manager sees what the city
council as a whole wants.
      4.   Councilors are visible and are often asked to speak about the city.
Councilors should be careful in representing the city's plans and/or actions to
the press or the public. A councilor should be clear whether the expressed
views are his own, or those of a majority of the city council. Nevertheless,
individual councilors are free to voice their personal opinions about city
issues.
      5.   Because councilors are visible, they are often approached by
disgruntled constituents with complaints. Councilors should avoid promising
constituents a particular result or response to a complaint. City staff is
limited by existing policy, which it must consistently apply. Rather than
offering to intervene for a constituent, councilors should help the constituent
identify the proper staff person to handle the problem. When individual
councilors intervene, city staff may feel pressured to produce a particular
result that is inconsistent with the collective city council's direction.
Staff's true responsibility is to carry out policy consistent with the
direction of the collective city council. If a councilor believes a change in
policy is needed, he should address the matter to the collective city council.
      6.   Councilors, and particularly new councilors, need a great deal of
information in order to vote on the matters before them. It is perfectly
appropriate for councilors to ask staff for information so that they can better
do their jobs, but it is necessary to coordinate with the city manager, so he
knows what staff councilors are dealing with and why.
      7.   As councilors become more and more familiar with city ordinances, it
is common to notice potential violations of those ordinances, or of state laws.
If a councilor notices something occurring within the city that may be a
violation of state or local law, it is appropriate to bring it to the city
manager's attention. Apart from the collective action of the city council,
individual councilors should not demand a particular result or action. The city
manager is in charge of directing the city's enforcement personnel, consistent
with city policy, collective city council action and available resources and
funds.
      8.   Councilors are sometimes involved in their own reelection, as well
as in a number of other political issues. Councilors should not solicit
political support from staff. As private citizens, city staff has
constitutional rights to engage in political conduct, but they are prevented by
law from engaging in any political activities while on the job.
   H.   City Ethics And Conflict Of Interest Policy: In order for the city
council's decision making process to have integrity and public acceptance, it
is important for councilors to be familiar with the city's ethics and conflict
of interest policy and to follow it closely. (Ord. 03-07, 4-7-2003)
   I.   Jurisdictional Areas: This subsection I represents the city council's
interpretation of section 2.02 of the city charter, which states that the city
council shall provide for the exercise of all powers of the city.
      1.   The city council, when acting in its official capacity, shall limit
its involvement to those jurisdictional areas which uniquely affect Whitefish
citizens and which have some observable impact on, or relevance to, the city
itself or to its services, utilities, infrastructure, properties, programs or
projects. Such issues include, but are not limited to, the city's finances; the
city's boundaries; city services; intergovernmental relationships; growth, land
use planning, zoning and subdivision review; urban renewal; economic
development; community health; city facilities; city infrastructure; and
statewide or federal legislation affecting cities. Issues which do not meet the
standards set forth above shall be considered outside of the jurisdiction of
the city council.
      2.   Recognizing that other branches of government may seek city input
before acting on issues within their purview, it shall be appropriate for the
city council to respond to requests for comment or input if it is clear that
another branch of government seeks or relies on such input.
      3.   The city council shall avoid those jurisdictional areas which: a) do
not affect Whitefish citizens differently than citizens statewide or
nationally, b) which do not have any observable impact on, or relevance to, the
city itself, its services, utilities, infrastructure, properties, programs or
projects, or c) which other elected or appointed representatives are, by their
experience and/or authority, best positioned to consider and take action.
      4.   It shall be the city manager's responsibility to identify those
issues that are inappropriate for council action under this subsection I. The
city manager shall provide a written report to the city council which advises
that an issue is inappropriate under this subsection I, and which recommends
the appropriate course of action for the city council. Before taking public
input or deliberating regarding such issue, the city council shall consider the
city manager's written recommendation, and shall vote on whether it is or is
not willing to entertain such issue, based upon the city manager's
recommendation and the restrictions contained in this subsection I. It shall
take the vote of a majority of the entire council to entertain and/or take
action on an issue that the city manager has recommended is inappropriate under
this subsection I. (Ord. 04-23, 11-15-2004)
1-6-4: DEPUTY MAYOR:
   A.   The term of the deputy mayor shall be two (2) years, beginning with the
selection of the deputy mayor by the council at the first meeting in January
after a biannual election, and continuing until the first council meeting in
January following the next biannual election.
   B.   If for any reason a deputy mayor becomes mayor, resigns, or is
otherwise unable to serve a full two (2) year term, then the council shall
elect from among its members a new deputy mayor, with the same powers and
duties as provided in the city charter. Such appointment shall be for the
unexpired term of the former deputy mayor.
   C.   When the deputy mayor is called upon to act as mayor during the
temporary absence or disability of the mayor, the deputy mayor shall retain all
rights, powers and duties of a city councilor, including the right to vote on
all matters before the council. (Ord. 08-03, 2-4-2008)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: City Manager
1-7-2: Municipal Judge
1-7-3: City Court Budgeting And Personnel Management
1-7-1: CITY MANAGER:
The term "city administrator" as used in the charter of the city and elsewhere
in this code shall mean the city manager. (2003 Code)
1-7-2: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   This section is adopted to create a policy governing the compensation of the
position of Whitefish Municipal Judge.
   The city council shall, by budget resolution or other resolution, set the
actual compensation of the Municipal Judge. Once set, the compensation of the
Municipal Judge shall be increased as of July 1 of the following year, and
yearly thereafter, by the same pay adjustment granted to all other non-union
city employees.
   In setting the annual compensation for the Municipal Judge, the city council
will consider education, experience, and other relevant factors relating to the
qualifications of the Municipal Judge.
   Every four (4) years, prior to the election, the city council shall review
the actual compensation of the Municipal Court Judge in comparison with the
compensation provided to District Court judges, as determined by the State of
Montana.
(Ord. 10-01, 2-1-2010; amd. Ord. 24-03, 3-18-2024)
1-7-3: CITY COURT BUDGETING AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT:
   A.   All references in this section to the "city court", the "city court
judge" or the "court" or the "judge" shall include any successor court or judge
having expanded jurisdiction.
   B.   Pursuant to charter section 3.032h of this code, the judge shall
hereafter appoint, suspend, remove and have supervisory control over court
employees, including, but not limited to, the court clerk and assistant court
clerk. The city's personnel policy, as adopted pursuant to resolution 94-23, or
any successor provision, shall apply to court employees, except that references
to the "city administrator" in the policy shall be interpreted to refer to the
"judge", except for section 2.1B. The judge shall act as administrator of the
personnel policy in personnel matters concerning the court. The judge shall be
empowered to develop administrative policies for the court. However, prior to
suspending or removing any court employees, the judge shall seek advice from
the city manager and city attorney, in order to ensure that such actions are
taken in compliance with all applicable law, ordinances and resolutions.
   C.   Decisions concerning salary adjustments shall be in compliance with the
city's personnel policy. The judge shall be authorized to make salary
adjustments for court staff in compliance with the city's personnel policy and
within the court's overall budget appropriations as approved by the city
council. In making salary adjustments, the judge shall first receive
confirmation from the city manager that a proposed salary adjustment is in
compliance with section 2.1B of resolution 94-23, the city's policy of equal
pay for equal work (i.e., similar positions elsewhere in the organization), or
any successor provision. Salary issues concerning the judge shall be handled
pursuant to section
1-7-2 of this chapter or any successor ordinance, governing the judge's
compensation.
   D.   On or before May 1 of each year, the city manager shall provide the
judge with a status quo proposed budget for the court that projects budget
requirements for the coming fiscal year based on the current fiscal year's
budget policy for personal services and materials and services, except that any
salary or benefit adjustments accorded to other city employees pursuant to
personnel policy practices and the insurance ordinance (ordinance 03-08), or
any successor ordinance, shall be reflected in the proposed budget.
   E.   If the judge desires changes to the "status quo" proposed budget the
judge shall notify the city manager of such determination on or before May 15.
In such case, the judge shall provide with his notice an explanation of the
desired changes and the basis or rationale for such changes. The city manager
shall then develop a "court request" proposed budget and provide it along with
the city manager's proposed budget in the overall proposed city budget. The
city council shall then evaluate both proposals and determine appropriate
budget policy for the court.
   F.   In the event the judge determines that the court needs additional staff
positions, he shall propose the same along with the rationale for such
additions in a "court request" proposed budget (as outlined above and within
the time lines outlined above).
   G.   If the city manager determines in the course of budget preparations
that a reduction in overall general fund appropriations (as compared to the
previous fiscal year) is necessary to address financial conditions, he shall
submit a "reduced" proposed budget to the judge on or before May 1 along with
the "status quo" proposed budget. The judge may, at his discretion, submit
materials on or before May 15 commenting on the "reduced" proposed budget. Such
comments shall be forwarded to the city council as part of the council's annual
budget review and adoption process.
   H.   If the judge accepts the proposed budget, he shall notify the city
manager of such decision on or before May 15 of each year, and may include
written comments for consideration by the city council. If no notice from the
judge is received by the city manager on or before May 15, the proposed budget
for court shall be included in the city manager's proposed city budget, without
comment from the judge.
   I.   The city council shall decide all issues concerning the adoption of the
annual court budget, current year reductions in budget appropriations, and the
creation of new court staff positions.
   J.   The city manager may, in his discretion, provide comments to the city
council on budget materials submitted by the court.
   K.   The court shall be responsible for the successful administration of the
court budget. At no time shall the court spend more than the total
appropriations provided in the adopted city budget for the court. If amendment
to the adopted budget is needed during the fiscal year, the court shall prepare
a "request for budget amendment" which shall be forwarded to the city council
for consideration pursuant to applicable statutes.
   L.   Pursuant to charter section 3.032g of this code the city manager is
required to execute the overall city budget. In fulfilling this requirement,
the city manager shall monitor the ongoing implementation of the court budget
(as the city manager does with other departments). If any financial
irregularity or overspending of the overall adopted court budget occurs or is
likely to occur based on monthly budget trends, the city manager shall notify
the court and the city council and shall propose measures to both parties to
rectify such problem. The city council shall decide any questions related to
these matters.
   M.   If the city manager determines that current year general fund budget
reductions are needed (subsequent to budget adoption) to address financial
conditions and that reductions in appropriations in the court budget will be
necessary, he shall prepare a proposed list of appropriation reductions in the
court budget. Such list shall be provided to the judge and city council along
with a report describing the financial condition that warrants appropriation
reductions. The judge may, in his discretion, provide comment to the city
council on the city manager's report and list of proposed appropriation
reductions. (Ord. 05-29, 12-5-2005)
CHAPTER 8
REVENUE AND FINANCE
SECTION:
1-8-1: Special Improvement District Revolving Fund
1-8-2: Industrial Development Bonds
1-8-3: City Street Maintenance District
1-8-4: Special Improvement Off-Street Parking District
1-8-5: Urban Renewal Plan
1-8-1: SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT REVOLVING FUND:
   A.   Created: Pursuant to and in accordance with provisions of the statutes
of the state 1 , there is created and established a fund to be known and
designated as the special improvement district revolving fund of the city.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the special improvement district revolving fund
is to provide funds to ensure and secure prompt payment of any special
improvement district bonds or warrants issued in payment of any special
improvements together with any interest thereon as it becomes due pursuant to
the provisions of Montana code 7-12-4221.
   C.   Use Limitations: The limitations on the use of such fund shall be as
set forth in Montana code 7-12-4221 et seq. which, by this reference, are made
a part hereof as fully as if set forth verbatim herein. (Ord. A-62, 6-21-1954)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-12-4221 et seq.
1-8-2: INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BONDS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide that city government
is reimbursed for services it provides in the issuance of industrial revenue
bonds, and to provide the city with reasonable reimbursement for the special
aid and assistance the industrial development bond provides to developers.
   B.   Application: Prior to the city's issuance of industrial development
bonds, the developer shall execute an application and pay an application fee as
set by resolution of the city council. Said application fee shall be to cover
the city's administrative costs to review and consider the project prior to its
submission to the city council.
   C.   Surcharge:
      1.   Imposition: There is hereby imposed on each industrial development
bond issued by the city a surcharge equal to one-half percent (0.5%) of the
total bond issue. Said surcharge shall be paid into the general fund of the
city.
      2.   Disposition Of Surcharge Payments: The surcharge payments from
industrial development bonds may be treated and considered in the same manner
as any other funds authorized by state law to cities with self-government
powers 1 . The surcharge shall be paid to the city's general fund, and may be
budgeted and expended pursuant to the normal budgetary process. (Ord. A-403, 2-
1-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 7-1-101.
1-8-3: CITY STREET MAINTENANCE DISTRICT:
   A.   District Created: There is hereby created a city street maintenance
district for the purpose of maintaining the streets, avenues, alleys and other
public roads in the city. The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
give notice of the creation of the special maintenance district no. 1 as
required by law.
   B.   Maintenance Included: Maintenance, as used herein shall include, but
not be limited to, sprinkling, graveling, oiling, chip sealing, seal coating,
overlaying, treating, general cleaning, sweeping, flushing, snow removal and
leaf and debris removal. (Ord. 84-4, 3-19-1984)
   C.   Boundaries Of District: The boundaries of the city street maintenance
district is that area described in resolution 84-2, passed and adopted by the
city council on March 19, 1984, and shall be subject to change by further
resolution of the city council in any succeeding calendar year. Automatically,
upon annexation of any property into the city, such property shall, without any
further action on the part of the city, be included within a city street
maintenance district for the following fiscal year and thereafter. (Ord. 84-4,
3-19-1984; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Accomplishment Of Work: The work undertaken as maintenance in the city
street maintenance district shall be accomplished either by contract or by
forces employed by the city in such a manner as the city council may direct.
(Ord. 84-4, 3-19-1984)
   E.   Assessment: The cost of and expenses of maintaining the streets,
avenues, alleys and public roads shall be assessed against each lot or parcel
within the city street maintenance district on the basis of street frontage
according to the formula adopted by the city council by resolution. (Ord. 84-4,
3-19-1984; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8-4: SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT OFF-STREET PARKING DISTRICT:
   A.   Adoption Of Assessment Formula: After considering all the criteria set
forth for the assessment of costs for the establishment and/or improvement of
off-street parking as provided in Montana code 7-12-4165, the formula set forth
in subsection B of this section is hereby adopted to be used in determining the
assessment of costs to each lot or parcel within any special improvement off-
street parking district hereafter created under and pursuant to Montana code
title 7, chapter 12, part 41.
   B.   Zones Established: Each twenty five foot (25') lot within the district
shall be assigned a zone from 1 to 5. The zone assignment will be determined as
follows:
      1.   Zone 1: Being all lots which have fifty percent (50%) or more of
their area within a radius of four hundred feet (400') of the center of the
improvement (off-street parking site);
      2.   Zone 2: Being all lots which have fifty percent (50%) or more of
their area within a radius of five hundred feet (500') of the center of the
improvement which are not assigned to zone 1;
      3.   Zone 3: Being all lots which have fifty percent (50%) or more of
their area within a radius of six hundred feet (600') of the center of the
improvement which are not assigned to zone 1 or 2;
      4.   Zone 4: Being all lots which have fifty percent (50%) or more of
their area within a radius of seven hundred feet (700') of the center of the
improvement which are not assigned to zone 1, 2 or 3;
      5.   Zone 5: Being all lots which have fifty percent (50%) or more of
their area more than seven hundred feet (700') from the center of the
improvement which are not assigned to zone 1, 2, 3 or 4; and
      6.   Zone 5 Plus: Being all lots, not hereinafter exempted, in zone 5
providing three (3) or more onsite parking spaces per twenty five foot (25')
lot.
   C.   Assessments:
      1.   Credits: Each property owner within the district who provides onsite
parking for the benefit of his or its property within the district shall be
given a credit allowance against the assessment and dropped one zone for each
three (3) onsite parking spaces provided. Irrespective of the number of credits
for onsite parking spaces, no property within the district shall drop below
zone 5 plus. The adequacy, availability and qualification for credit under this
subsection of each onsite parking space provided per twenty five foot (25') lot
shall be determined by the city council.
      2.   Factors:
         a.   Zone 1 lots shall be assigned a factor of ten (10); zone 2 lots a
factor of eight and seventy-five hundredths (8.75); zone 3 lots a factor of
seven and one-half (7.5); zone 4 lots a factor of six and twenty-five
hundredths (6.25); zone 5 lots a factor of three (3.0); and zone 5 plus a
factor of one and one-half (1.5).
         b.   The number of lots in each zone shall be multiplied by the factor
assigned to that zone and the results will be totaled to determine the total
factors.
         c.   The total cost of the improvement shall be divided by the total
factors to determine the base assessment.
         d.   The base assessment shall then be multiplied by the factor
assigned to each zone to determine the annual assessment for each zone.
         e.   The assessment so determined shall be applied to each lot in the
district not herein exempted according to the zone assigned to each lot.
      3.   Separate Assessment For Each Off-Street Parking Site: In the event
there is more than one off-street parking site improvement provided within one
special improvement off-street parking district, then and in that event, all
lots falling within more than one zone, by reason of the multiple off-street
parking sites improvements provided in the district, shall be assessed
separately for each off-street parking site.
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   A property included in the district shall not be assessed any costs
if its use is that of a church or nonprofit organization.
      2.   A property included in the district shall not be assessed any costs
if its use at the time of formation of the district is single-family
residential use; however, the parking commission shall annually review the
exempted properties and if the use changes to business use, the property shall
be assessed according to the adopted method. Multiple residential use shall be
assessed the same as commercial property. (Ord. 91-14, 2-3-1992)
1-8-5: URBAN RENEWAL PLAN:
The urban renewal plan, as set forth in that document entitled City of
Whitefish Urban Renewal Plan, as prepared by the city manager and dated March
1987, and as subsequently amended, relating to general and special urban
renewal projects as set forth therein and the methods and modes of financing
same to include, but not be limited to, the segregation and application of tax
increments as provided in Montana code 7-15-4282 through 7-15-4292, is hereby
approved. (Ord. 87-3, 5-4-1987; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Establishment And Recognition
1-9-2: Clerk Position Established
1-9-3: Qualifications Of Judge
1-9-4: Judge; Assistant Judge
1-9-5: Qualifications Of Judge Pro Tempore
1-9-6: Duties Of Municipal Judge
1-9-7: Annual Salary; Expenses
1-9-8: Appeal To District Court
1-9-9: Scope Of Appeal
1-9-10: Record On Appeal
1-9-11: Procedure On Appeal
1-9-12: Fees
1-9-13: When Fees Payable
1-9-14: Establishment Of Disposition Administrative Fee
1-9-15: Establishment Of Time Pay Contract Administrative Fee
1-9-16: Establishment Of Administrative Fee For A Personal Record Check Or
Individual Background Check
1-9-1: ESTABLISHMENT AND RECOGNITION:
The municipal court of the city of Whitefish is hereby established pursuant to
title 3, chapter 6, Montana Code Annotated (section 3-6-101 et seq.). It is
specifically recognized by the city that its municipal court is established for
all intents and purposes set forth in the state law and for all purposes that
may be reasonably inferred therefrom. The municipal court shall assume
continuing jurisdiction over all pending city court cases, and shall assume all
other operational and administrative functions of the city court. The Whitefish
city court shall cease its operations and functions upon the date that the
municipal court becomes effective. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-2: CLERK POSITION ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to state law, the position of municipal court clerk is established
within the municipal court. The municipal court clerk shall assist the
municipal court judge in the recording and signing of court proceedings as well
as in creating, maintaining and retaining municipal court records. The city
council shall set the salary of the municipal court clerk and provide for other
necessary expenses that may be incurred in operating the municipal court. Until
modified by the city council, the initial salary of the municipal court clerk
shall equal the salary of the former city court clerk. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF JUDGE:
A municipal court judge must have the same qualifications as a judge of a
district court, as set forth in article VII, section 9, of the 1972 Montana
constitution, except that a municipal court judge need only be admitted to the
practice of law in the state for at least three (3) years prior to the date of
appointment or election. A municipal court judge must reside in Flathead County
and shall be a citizen of the United States and a resident of Flathead County
for one year next preceding his or her election or appointment. (Ord. 09-06, 5-
4-2009)
1-9-4: JUDGE; ASSISTANT JUDGE:
   A.   There shall be one full time elected municipal court judge. The judge's
term commences on the first Monday in January following the election. The judge
shall hold office for the term of four (4) years and until a successor is
elected and qualified.
   B.   The elected municipal court judge may, with the approval of the city
council, appoint a part time assistant judge, who must have the same
qualifications as judge pro tempore, to serve during the elected judge's term
of office. An order by a part time assistant judge has the same force and
effect as an order of a municipal court judge. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF JUDGE PRO TEMPORE:
When a judge of the municipal court has been disqualified or is sick or unable
to act, the judge shall call in a sitting or retired judge of a court of record
or an attorney who has been a member of the state bar of Montana for five (5)
or more years to act as a judge pro tempore. The judge pro tempore has the same
power and authority as the municipal court judge. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-6: DUTIES OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
The judge of the municipal court shall have all duties imposed by state law and
higher courts. The judge shall also have the duties imposed by city ordinances.
The judge shall hear and determine all suits, actions, and prosecutions
instituted in the municipal court pursuant to state law and ordinances of this
city. The judge shall take the oath of office, as required by law, and the oath
shall be filed with the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-7: ANNUAL SALARY; EXPENSES:
   A.   Pursuant to Montana Code Annotated 3-6-203, the salary of the municipal
court judge and any part time assistant judge shall be fixed by budget
resolution or other resolution. Until modified by the city council, the initial
salary of the municipal court judge shall equal the salary of the former city
judge.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing, the municipal court judge shall receive
his or her actual and necessary traveling expenses and all other necessary
expenses as budgeted in the city's annual budget. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-8: APPEAL TO DISTRICT COURT:
Pursuant to state law, a party may appeal to district court from a judgment of
the municipal court if:
   A.   The amount in controversy exceeds two hundred dollars ($200.00); or
   B.   The judgment includes incarceration; or
   C.   Upon petition of an aggrieved party, the district court may, in the
interests of justice, accept appeal jurisdiction notwithstanding the amount in
controversy. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-9: SCOPE OF APPEAL:
An appeal to the district court from a judgment of the municipal court is
confined to review of the record and questions of law, subject to the supreme
court's rule making and supervisory authority. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-10: RECORD ON APPEAL:
The record on appeal from municipal court to district court shall consist of an
electronic recording or stenographic transcription of the case tried, together
with all papers filed in the action. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-11: PROCEDURE ON APPEAL:
The district court may affirm, reverse or amend any appealed order or judgment
or may direct the proper order or judgment to be entered or direct that a new
trial or further proceeding be conducted in the municipal court. (Ord. 09-06,
5-4-2009)
1-9-12: FEES:
The municipal court judge shall collect the following fees in every civil
action and shall pay said fees into the city general fund:
   A.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) when a complaint or petition is filed, to
be paid by the plaintiff;
   B.   Ten dollars ($10.00) when the defendant appears, to be paid by the
defendant;
   C.   Ten dollars ($10.00) to be paid by the prevailing party when judgment
is rendered. In cases where judgment is entered by default, no charge except
the twenty five dollars ($25.00) for filing of the complaint or petition shall
be made for any services, including issuing and return of execution;
   D.   Ten dollars ($10.00) for all services in an action where judgment is
rendered by confession;
   E.   Ten dollars ($10.00) for filing notice of appeal and transcript on
appeal, justifying and approving undertaking on appeal, and transmitting papers
to the district court with certificate. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-13: WHEN FEES PAYABLE:
All fees must be paid in advance, and no costs shall be included in any
judgment until they have been paid. However, nothing herein contained shall
restrict or prevent the bringing of suits in forma pauperis as provided by law.
(Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-14: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISPOSITION ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
There is hereby established an administrative fee to be assessed by the
municipal court as part of the disposition of all citations and complaints,
criminal and traffic, for which there is a conviction, bond forfeiture, nolo
contendere plea, or plea of guilty entered. The administrative fee is
established to help defray municipal court related administrative and
processing costs incurred by the city for processing misdemeanor criminal
offenses. An administrative fee for any citation or complaint in the city
municipal court of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be assessed each citation or
complaint in addition to the regular fines, surcharges and fees at the time the
defendant pleads or is convicted of any charges. No administrative fee shall be
assessed the defendant in any case involving only a parking violation. The
amount of the administrative fee may be modified by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-15: ESTABLISHMENT OF TIME PAY CONTRACT ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
There is hereby established an administrative fee which the municipal court
shall assess on all time payment contracts allowed the defendant for payment of
fines, costs and charges in municipal court on an installment basis at an
amount of ten dollars ($10.00). The administrative fee is established to help
defray municipal court related administrative and processing costs incurred by
the city for processing misdemeanor criminal time payment contracts. The amount
of the administrative fee may be modified by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
1-9-16: ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR A PERSONAL RECORD CHECK OR
INDIVIDUAL BACKGROUND CHECK:
There is hereby established an administrative fee which the municipal court
shall assess for each individual or entity requesting a personal record check
or individual background check for employment or other purposes. The amount of
the fee is twenty five dollars ($25.00). Public agencies shall not be required
to pay such fee. The administrative fee is established to help defray the
municipal court related administrative and processing costs incurred by the
city for searching city court and police records and issuing a summary or
report of such records. The amount of the administrative fee may be modified by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 09-06, 5-4-2009)
CHAPTER 10
CIVIL RIGHTS POLICY
SECTION:
1-10-1: Policy, Purpose And Intent
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Employment Discrimination Prohibited
1-10-4: Discrimination In Public Accommodations Prohibited
1-10-5: Housing Discrimination Prohibited
1-10-6: Retaliation Prohibited
1-10-7: Violation; Civil Remedy
1-10-8: Severability
1-10-1: POLICY, PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   It is declared to be the policy of the city, in the exercise of its
police powers pursuant to its city charter and self- governing authority for
the protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare, and for the
maintenance of peace and good government, to assure civil rights and
opportunity to all persons, free from restrictions and discrimination because
of his or her actual or perceived race, color, national origin, ancestry,
religion, creed, sex, age, marital or familial status, physical or mental
disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity and/or expression.
   B.   In addition to the right to be free from discrimination on the basis of
race, color, national origin, ancestry, religion, creed, sex, age, marital or
familial status, physical or mental disability, the right to be free from
discrimination on the basis of actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender
identity or expression is hereby recognized as and hereby declared to be a
civil right. Adding such discrimination prohibitions on the basis of actual or
perceived sexual orientation and/or gender identity or expression to the city's
laws is necessary and desirable because existing state and federal laws
regarding discrimination do not adequately address all potential discriminatory
practices that may impact the city's diverse inhabitants and visitors.
   C.   The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed for
accomplishment of its policies and purposes; provided that, however, nothing in
this chapter is intended to alter or abridge other rights, protections, or
privileges secured by state or federal law, including state and federal
constitutional protections of freedom of speech, freedom of association, and
exercise of religion or to infringe upon or alter the authority vested by law
in the Montana human rights commission, the federal equal employment
opportunity commission, or any other federal or state agency having
jurisdiction over civil rights and discriminatory practices.
   D.   Pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 7-1-111(3), the provisions
of this chapter do not apply to or affect the public school system.
   E.   The recognition of religious liberty and the rights of freedom of
association and expression is necessary to balance the civil rights of all
residents of the city; as such, provisions with this chapter related to
fraternal, charitable, and religious organizations are intended to ensure a
balanced approach to protecting civil rights of all citizens of the city so
that the protections afforded by this chapter do not unreasonably impede upon a
fraternal, charitable, or religious organization's ability to engage in
activities protected by law or to disseminate its preferred views. (Ord. 16-07,
4-5-2016)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
definitions apply:
DISCRIMINATION: "Discrimination", "discriminate" or "discriminatory" means any
act, policy, or practice that has the effect of unfavorably subjecting any
person to different or separate treatment on the basis of their sexual
orientation or gender identity or expression, or because of their association
with a person or group of people so identified. "Discrimination",
"discriminate" or "discriminatory" also means any act, policy, or practice that
has the effect of unfavorably subjecting any person to different or separate
treatment on the belief that a person has a particular sexual orientation or
gender identity and/or expression, even if that belief is incorrect.
EMPLOYEE: An individual employed by an employer.
EMPLOYER: An employer of one or more persons or an agent of the employer, but
not including a fraternal, charitable, or religious association or corporation
unless the association or corporation is organized either for private profit or
to provide accommodations or services that are available on a nonmembership
basis.
EMPLOYMENT AGENCY: A person undertaking to procure employees or opportunities
to work.
GENDER IDENTITY OR EXPRESSION: A gender related identity, expression, or
behavior, regardless of the individual's sex at birth.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: A building or portion of a building, whether constructed
or to be constructed, that is or will be used as the home, domicile, residence,
or sleeping quarters of its occupants.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: An organization or an agent of an organization organized
for the purpose, in whole or in part, of collective bargaining, of dealing with
employers concerning grievances or terms or conditions of employment, or of
other mutual aid and protection of employees.
PERSON: One or more individuals, labor unions, partnerships, associations,
corporations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock companies,
trusts, unincorporated employees' associations, employers, employment agencies,
organizations, or labor organizations.
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: A place that caters or offers its services, goods, or
facilities to the general public, subject only to the conditions and
limitations established by law and applicable to all persons. It includes,
without limitation, a public inn, restaurant, eating house, hotel, roadhouse,
place where food or alcoholic beverages or malt liquors are sold for
consumption, motel, soda fountain, soft drink parlor, tavern, nightclub,
trailer park, resort, campground, barbering, cosmetology, electrology,
aesthetics, or manicuring salon or shop, bathroom, rest house, theater,
swimming pool, skating rink, golf course, ball field, cafe, ice cream parlor,
transportation company, hospital, and all other public amusement and business
establishments.
Public accommodation does not include an institution, club, or place of
accommodation that proves that it is, by its nature, distinctly private. An
institution, club, or place of accommodation may not be considered by its
nature distinctly private if it has more than one hundred (100) members,
provides regular meal service, and regularly receives payment for dues, fees,
use of space, facilities, services, meals, or beverages, directly or
indirectly, from or on behalf of nonmembers, for the furtherance of trade or
business. For the purposes of this definition, any lodge of a recognized
national fraternal organization is considered by its nature distinctly private.
SEXUAL ORIENTATION: Heterosexuality, bisexuality, or homosexuality. (Ord. 16-
07, 4-5-2016)
1-10-3: EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
   A.   No employer shall discriminate in the employment, failure to hire,
refusal to hire, compensation, work classification, terms, conditions, or
privileges of employment, including promotion, demotion, or termination of
employment.
   B.   No employer shall fail or refuse to refer for employment, or give
negative information to a potential employer of an individual, in such a manner
that would deprive or limit an individual's employment opportunities or that
would otherwise adversely affect an individual's status as an applicant or
prospective employee, for a discriminatory reason.
   C.   No labor organization shall discriminate in limiting membership,
conditions of membership, or termination of membership of any person in any
labor union or apprenticeship program.
   D.   No employment agency shall discriminate in the procurement or
recruitment of any person for possible employment with an employer. (Ord. 16-
07, 4-5-2016)
1-10-4: DISCRIMINATION IN PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for a place of public accommodation to deny, directly or
indirectly, any person full and equal access or enjoyment of the goods,
services, activities, facilities, privileges, advantages, and accommodations
for a discriminatory reason. (Ord. 16-07, 4-5-2016)
1-10-5: HOUSING DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, owner, manager, employee, or any entity whose
business includes engaging in any residential real estate related transactions
to discriminate in the sale, lease or rental of any housing facility, or to
otherwise discriminate in the terms, conditions, maintenance, improvement, or
repair of any housing facility. The rental of sleeping rooms in a private
residence designed as a single dwelling unit in which the owner also resides is
excluded from this section provided that the owner rents no more than three (3)
sleeping rooms within the residence. (Ord. 16-07, 4-5-2016)
1-10-6: RETALIATION PROHIBITED:
No person shall coerce, threaten, discharge, expel, blacklist, or otherwise
retaliate against another person for opposing any practices prohibited by this
chapter, making a complaint, or assisting in an investigation or proceeding
regarding an alleged violation of this chapter; nor shall any person require,
request, conspire with, assist, or coerce another person to retaliate against a
person for making a complaint or assisting in an investigation or proceeding.
(Ord. 16-07, 4-5-2016)
1-10-7: VIOLATION; CIVIL REMEDY:
   A.   Any unlawful discrimination specifically addressed by the Montana human
rights act shall be submitted to the Montana department of labor and industry
pursuant to title 49, chapter 2, Montana Code Annotated.
   B.   Violations of sections not specifically addressed by Montana state law
are to be civil municipal ordinance violations within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Whitefish municipal court pursuant to Montana Code
Annotated section 3-6-103. The Montana rules of civil procedure shall apply,
except and unless the municipal court establishes alternative rules of civil
procedure for matters within the exclusive jurisdiction of the municipal court.
   C.   Any person claiming a violation of this chapter may seek civil
remedies, injunctive relief, attorney fees or other equitable relief by
petitioning the Whitefish municipal court. Prior to the filing of any petition
in Whitefish municipal court under this chapter, a person must have:
      1.   Filed or sought to file a timely complaint with the Montana human
rights bureau alleging discrimination in employment, public accommodations or
housing, or retaliation; and
      2.   Received a disposition of the complaint from the Montana human
rights bureau, the Montana department of labor and industry hearings bureau,
the Montana human rights commission, the equal opportunity commission, or any
Montana court indicating that the acts of alleged discrimination or retaliation
underlying the complaint do not fall within the scope of the Montana human
rights act or applicable federal law.
For purposes of this section, the term "timely" shall mean filed with the
Montana human rights bureau within the time frames set forth in Montana Code
Annotated section 49-2-501.
Any person claiming a violation of this chapter must file a petition with the
Whitefish municipal court within ninety (90) days of receipt of the written
disposition referenced in subsection C2 of this section. (Ord. 16-07, 4-5-2016)
1-10-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or word in this chapter
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The city
council hereby declares that it would have passed this chapter and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, and words thereof, irrespective
of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses,
phrases, or words have been declared invalid or unconstitutional, and if for
any reason this chapter should be declared invalid or unconstitutional, then
the remaining ordinance provisions will remain in full force and effect. (Ord.
16-07, 4-5-2016)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
STANDING AND AD HOC COMMITTEES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Definitions
2-1-2: Permanent Standing Committees, Subcommittees, Advisory Committees Or
Statutory Boards
2-1-3: Membership
2-1-4: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-1-5: Expenditures
2-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms shall mean:
AD HOC COMMITTEE: A temporary committee, commission, task force or board
established for a definite period of time sufficient to address a specified
scope of work.
COUNCIL SUBCOMMITTEE: A committee with membership limited to members of the
city council, which may include the mayor.
STANDING COMMITTEE: A committee, commission, task force or board established to
address specified matters on an ongoing basis.
SUBCOMMITTEE: A committee established to address specified matters on an
ongoing basis. (Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-1-2: PERMANENT STANDING COMMITTEES, SUBCOMMITTEES, ADVISORY COMMITTEES OR
STATUTORY BOARDS:
All boards, committees or commissions shall be governed by this title, except
as otherwise provided by charter, this code, statute or interlocal agreement.
   A.   Permanent standing committees and subcommittees are established by
ordinance.
   B.   Ad hoc advisory committees are established by council resolution, have
a specific purpose, and have a limited duration.
   C.   Statutory boards are established as required by state or federal law.
(Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-1-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointments; Compensation: Members of advisory boards, commissions and
committees shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city
council, unless otherwise provided by federal or state law, city code, or
interlocal agreement. Appointments to committees established under this chapter
shall be made by a simple majority vote of the city council in attendance at a
special or regular session. Committee members shall receive no compensation.
Committees shall consist of a definite number of members, but in no case shall
the number be fewer than three (3) nor greater than nine (9). Members of
standing committees shall have regular terms of not less than two (2) years and
not more than five (5) years, which terms shall also be staggered. One year
terms may be used initially to establish staggered terms. An enacting ordinance
or resolution may provide:
      1.   Specific and permanent city council or mayoral positions on
committees;
      2.   Committee positions specified for members representing various
occupations, businesses, trades and professions; and
      3.   Committee positions specified for members residing outside the
corporate boundaries of the city.
The resolution or ordinance creating a committee shall specify the number of
members, the position number of each position, and the length and termination
date of each term. The city clerk shall keep an official and accurate record of
committee positions according to position number, names of appointees serving
in each position, appointment dates, dates of resignations, the length and
termination date of each term and specific positions provided for city
councilors or the mayor; occupations, businesses, trades and professions; and
for members residing outside the corporate limits of the city. City councilors
or the mayor may, from time to time, be appointed to regular membership on
standing or ad hoc committees, provided that the total of city council and
mayoral memberships do not constitute a majority of such committees. Committee
members may serve successive terms provided they are reappointed by the city
council. (Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
   B.   Removal Of Member: A member of a committee created under this chapter
serves at the pleasure of the city council and may be removed by majority vote
of the city council, except where state statutes or city ordinance or
resolution may otherwise provide. Absences from three (3) consecutive meetings,
including regular and special work sessions, or absences from more than fifty
percent (50%) of such meetings held during the calendar year shall constitute
grounds for removal. Circumstances of the absences shall be considered by the
city council prior to removal. Any person who knows in advance of his inability
to attend a specific meeting shall notify the chair or secretary of the
committee at least twenty four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   C.   Vacancy: Any vacancy on a committee created under this chapter shall be
filled by the city council acting in a regular or special session for the
unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy exists.
   D.   Organization: At a committee's first meeting and at the first meeting
of each calendar year, the committee shall elect officers, including a chair,
vice chair and secretary. If a vacancy occurs in an officer's position, the
committee shall elect a member of the committee to fill the vacancy at the next
meeting. The secretary need not be a member of the committee and shall keep an
accurate record of all committee proceedings. In the absence of the chair, the
vice chair shall assume the responsibilities of and act as the chair pro tem.
If both the chair and vice chair are absent from a meeting the attending
committee members shall elect a chair pro tem for that meeting. (Ord. 01-06, 2-
20-2001; amd. Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-1-4: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The majority of a committee created under this chapter shall constitute a
quorum. Not less than a quorum of the committee may transact any business or
conduct any proceedings before the committee. If the enacting resolution or
ordinance does not so provide, a committee shall adopt rules of procedure for
the conduct of meetings. All actions of a committee shall be within statutory
authority, the city charter, ordinances, resolutions or the enacting resolution
or ordinance. If the enacting resolution or ordinance does not so provide, the
committee shall decide the frequency of meetings and the times at which
meetings shall be held. All meetings are open to the public. If the city
council deems it necessary, the city council may also set the frequency of
committee meetings. If an ad hoc committee is being created, the resolution or
ordinance shall state the length of time the committee is to exist, including a
specific termination date. (Ord. 01-06, 2-20-2001; amd. Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-1-5: EXPENDITURES:
A committee created under this chapter shall not have authority to make any
expenditures on behalf of the city or disburse any funds provided by the city
or to obligate the city for any funds except as has been included in the city
budget and after the city council shall have authorized the expenditure by
resolution, which resolution shall provide the administrative method by which
funds shall be drawn and expended. (Ord. 01-06, 2-20-2001; amd. Ord. 15-05, 4-
6-2015)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created; Membership
2-2-2: Organization Of Board
2-2-3: Conduct Of Park Board Business
2-2-4: Powers And Duties
2-2-5: Contracts And Employment
 
Notes
1 1. Charter, article II, section 2.02, #12.
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
The board of park commissioners must be composed of the mayor, or the mayor's
designee, and six (6) other persons to be appointed by the mayor, with the
approval of the city council. The seven (7) persons to be so appointed shall
have the same qualifications for the office of park commissioner as are
required by Montana code 7-4-4301 for the office of mayor.
   A.   Term Of Office:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A2 of this section, the term of
office of each park commissioner shall be two (2) years from and after May 1 of
the year in which he is appointed and until his successor is appointed and
qualified.
      2.   Three (3) of the commissioners first appointed shall hold office for
the period of one year from and after May 1 and until their successors are
appointed and qualified.
   B.   Vacancy: Any park commissioner who shall refuse or neglect to attend
three (3) meetings of the board between May 1 and April 30 of the following
year shall be deemed to have vacated his office, and thereupon his successor
may be appointed.
   C.   Compensation: No park commissioner shall receive compensation for his
service rendered under the provisions of this chapter, but the actual and
necessary expenses incurred by any member of the board while acting under the
orders of the board in the transaction of any business in its behalf may be
paid upon being allowed and audited by the board.
   D.   Oath Of Office: Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, each
park commissioner shall take and subscribe the oath provided by Montana code 2-
16-211. The oath shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 96-15,
2-18-1997)
2-2-2: ORGANIZATION OF BOARD:
   A.   On the second Tuesday in May in each year, the board of park
commissioners shall meet and organize by electing one of their number president
and one of their number vice president, who shall hold their offices,
respectively, for the term of one year.
   B.   The city clerk or the city clerk's designee shall be ex officio clerk
of the board of park commissioners. (Ord. 96-15, 2-18-1997)
2-2-3: CONDUCT OF PARK BOARD BUSINESS:
   A.   The board of park commissioners shall hold an annual meeting on the
second Tuesday of May and a meeting at least once in each month in each year at
such times as the board shall by rule prescribe. Special meetings may also be
held at the call of the president or, in his absence, the vice president, upon
giving to each member of the board at least twenty four (24) hours' notice in
writing of the time and place of holding such meeting.
   B.   A majority of the entire board shall be necessary to constitute a
quorum for the transaction of the business of the board. (Ord. 96-15, 2-18-
1997)
2-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Officers: Except as provided in Montana code 7-16-4228(2), the
president, and in the president's absence the vice president, shall preside at
all meetings of the board. (Ord. 96-15, 2-18-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Park Board Minutes: The minutes of the meeting contained in the record
book, when approved by the board, shall be prima facie evidence of the matters
and things therein recited in any court of this state.
   C.   Park Board Powers And Duties:
      1.   The board of park commissioners shall have the management and
control of all parks belonging to the city.
      2.   The board of park commissioners shall have the following powers and
be charged with the following duties:
         a.   To lay out, establish, improve and maintain parkways, drives and
walks in the parks of the city; and to determine when and what parks shall be
opened to the public;
         b.   To plant, cultivate, maintain and improve all trees and other
plants required to be planted, cultivated and maintained in the parks belonging
to the city;
         c.   If directed by the city council, to plant, cultivate, maintain
and improve all trees and other plants required to be planted, cultivated and
maintained in the streets, avenues, boulevards and public places in the city
and for that purpose to establish and maintain nurseries for the growth of
trees and plants;
         d.   Upon receiving approval from the city council, to purchase or
otherwise acquire, and sell or otherwise transfer, real property; to make plats
thereof; and to file the same in the office of the city clerk;
         e.   To provide written comments and recommendations to the city
council prior to any action by the city council to acquire or transfer land
used, or to be used, for a city park;
         f.   To pay all obligations authorized to be incurred by the
provisions of this part;
         g.   To exercise all other powers incident to the duties enjoined by
the provisions of this part. (Ord. 96-15, 2-18-1997)
2-2-5: CONTRACTS AND EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   The board of park commissioners has the following powers and duties:
      1.   To employ and discharge workers, laborers, engineers, foresters and
others, and to fix their compensation; and
      2.   To make all contracts necessary or convenient for carrying out any
and all of the powers conferred and duties enjoined upon the board by this
part; provided, however, that any contract having a term of more than five (5)
years must be approved by the city council.
   B.   All contracts made by the board must be in the name of the city and
must be signed by the city clerk and by the president of the board or, in the
president's absence, by the vice president of the board; provided, however,
that any contract having a term of one year or less may be signed by the parks
and recreation director.
   C.   An order or resolution authorizing the making of any contract may not
be passed or adopted except by a yea and nay vote, which must be recorded in
full in the minutes by the city clerk.
   D.   The board may elect to have all, or certain, personnel decisions made
by the mayor, the city manager or the parks and recreation director pursuant to
the policies and regulations governing other city personnel decisions. (Ord.
96-15, 2-18-1997)
CHAPTER 3
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 4
RESORT TAX MONITORING COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Committee Established
2-4-2: Purpose, Powers And Duties
2-4-3: Membership
2-4-4: Organization
2-4-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-4-6: Expenditures
2-4-1: COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a resort tax monitoring committee for the city,
hereinafter referred to as the committee. (Ord. 01-07, 2-20-2001)
2-4-2: PURPOSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
The purpose of the committee is to monitor, review and advise the city council
on the use of resort tax funds pursuant to
title 3, chapter 3 of this code. The committee may also advise the city council
on proposed changes to
title 3, chapter 3 of this code. The committee shall report to the city council
on matters of pertinence and interest related to the resort tax as the
committee may deem appropriate or as the city council may request. The
committee's powers shall be advisory only. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to provide the committee with the power to authorize or prohibit the
use of resort tax funds. (Ord. 01-07, 2-20-2001)
2-4-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee shall have seven (7) members.
Members shall be appointed by the city council. The city council shall attempt
to appoint one member who is a lodging business owner, operator, or
representative; one member who is a restaurant/bar owner, operator, or
representative; one member who is a retail business owner, operator, or
representative; and one business owner at large, who may, but need not, own one
of the types of businesses listed above. Any member designated as a business
owner, operator, or representative of one of the above listed business
categories, as well as the business owner at large, shall do so in relation to
an associated business located within the corporate boundaries of the city of
Whitefish, although personal residency shall not be required. The city clerk
shall make appropriate notation of a member's business category affiliation on
the official committee roster. If, within the discretion of the city council,
an individual appropriate to fill a vacancy in any of the above listed business
categories is not identified after publication of a notice of position vacancy,
the city council may make a general membership appointment. In such case, the
city council shall attempt to make such business category appointment with the
next available vacancy where an incumbent member has not applied for
reappointment or the city council decides not to reappoint an incumbent member.
One position shall be specified for the mayor or a city councilor. The
remaining positions shall be general membership positions and shall require
residency within the corporate boundaries of the city of Whitefish. Committee
members shall receive no compensation.
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be three (3) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 7 inclusive of the members of the
committee. The terms of those appointees holding positions on the effective
date of this chapter shall continue until the termination date listed below:
Position Number Position Specification Initial Expiration Date
Position Number Position Specification Initial Expiration Date
1               Mayor or councilor     May 31, 2008
2               Member                 May 31, 2008
3               Member                 May 31, 2008
4               Member                 May 31, 2006
5               Member                 May 31, 2006
6               Member                 May 31, 2007
7               Member                 May 31, 2007
 
Thereafter members appointed to each position shall serve for three (3) year
terms; the first of such terms beginning on June 1 of the year in which the
initial term for the position expires. At the discretion of the city council,
members may be appointed for more than one term. (Ord. 06-14, 6-5-2006)
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member of the committee serves at the pleasure of
the city council and may be removed by majority vote of the same. Absences from
three (3) consecutive meetings, including regular and special work sessions, or
absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of such meetings held during the
calendar year, shall constitute grounds for removal. Circumstances of the
absences shall be considered by the city council prior to removal. Any person
who knows in advance of his inability to attend a specific meeting shall notify
the chair or secretary of the committee at least twenty four (24) hours prior
to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the committee shall be filled by the city council acting in a regular or
special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy
exists. (Ord. 01-07, 2-20-2001)
2-4-4: ORGANIZATION:
At its first meeting after June 1 of each year, the committee shall elect a
chair, vice chair and secretary for the next twelve (12) month period. Upon the
absence of the chair, the vice chair shall serve as chair pro tem. If both the
chair and the vice chair are absent from a specific meeting, the attending
members shall elect a chair pro tem for the meeting. If the secretary is absent
from a specific meeting, the attending members shall elect a secretary pro tem
for the meeting. If a vacancy occurs in the chair, vice chair or secretary
positions, the committee shall elect a member to fill the vacancy at the next
meeting. The secretary need not be a member of the committee and shall keep an
accurate record of all committee proceedings. (Ord. 01-07, 2-20-2001)
2-4-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Four (4) members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a
quorum of the committee may transact any business or conduct any proceedings
before the committee. The committee shall adopt rules of procedure for the
conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the city charter, ordinances and
resolutions. The committee shall meet as frequently as is necessary and
convenient within the judgment of the committee, but shall meet not less than
once every three (3) months. The committee shall decide the time, place and
date of meetings. All meetings shall be open to the public. (Ord. 06-14, 6-5-
2006)
2-4-6: EXPENDITURES:
The committee shall have no authority to make any expenditures on behalf of the
city or disburse any funds provided by the city or to obligate the city for any
funds except as has been included in the city budget and after the city council
shall have authorized the expenditure by resolution, which resolution shall
provide the administrative method by which funds shall be drawn and expended.
(Ord. 01-07, 2-20-2001)
CHAPTER 5
POLICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Commission Established
2-5-2: Purpose, Powers, Processes And Duties
2-5-3: Membership
2-5-4: Organization
2-5-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-5-6: Enforcement Of Decisions
2-5-7: Staff Supervision
2-5-8: Expenditures
2-5-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Police Commission for the City, hereinafter
referred to as the commission. (Ord. 18-07, 2-20-2018)
2-5-2: PURPOSE, POWERS, PROCESSES AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the commission are set forth in Montana Code 7-32-4151
through 7-32-4164, this chapter and rules of procedure adopted by the
commission. Consistent with State Statutes and this chapter, these powers and
duties of the commission shall include:
   A.   Review of police officer applicants when such review is sought by the
Chief of Police or City Manager;
   B.   Hear and decide appeals by any member or officer of the Police
Department who has been disciplined, suspended, removed or discharged by an
order of the City Manager; and
   C.   Provide comment and recommendations to the Chief of Police or City
Manager on matters related to the Police Department. (Ord. 18-07, 2-20-2018)
2-5-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The commission shall have three (3) members.
Members shall be appointed by the Mayor and ratified by the City Council.
Members shall reside within the corporate limits of the City and shall have
maintained residency within the City for one year prior to appointment to the
commission. Commission members shall receive no compensation.
   B.   Terms; Positions: Commission terms shall be three (3) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 3 inclusive of the members of the
commission. Members serving on the effective date of this chapter shall be
assigned to positions that correspond with the expiration dates of their
existing terms:
 
Number Term Expiration Date
1      First regular Council meeting in May 2002
2      First regular Council meeting in May 2003
3      First regular Council meeting in May 2004
 
As each of the above listed expiration dates is completed, members shall be
appointed successively to three (3) year terms. Terms shall begin upon
appointment at the first regular City Council meeting held in May of each year.
However, a member serving on the commission during an appeal proceeding under
Montana Code 7-32-4155 shall continue to serve on the commission until such
time that a decision on the appeal is rendered. In such case, a new member may
not sit on the commission for business. At the discretion of the City Council,
members may be appointed to more than one term.
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member may be removed from the commission by
majority vote of the City Council for cause upon written charges and after a
public hearing. Willful disregard of State Statutes, City ordinances and the
rules of procedures of the commission, or absences from three (3) consecutive
meetings, including regular and special meetings, or absences from more than
fifty percent (50%) of such meetings held during the calendar year, shall
constitute cause for removal. Circumstances of the absences shall be considered
by the City Council prior to removal. Any person who knows in advance of his
inability to attend a specific meeting shall notify the Chair or Secretary of
the commission at least twenty four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the commission shall be filled by the Mayor and ratified by the City Council
acting in a regular or special session for the unexpired term of the position
wherein the vacancy exists. The City Council may appoint members of the City
Council to temporarily fill vacant positions on the commission. (Ord. 18-07, 2-
20-2018)
2-5-4: ORGANIZATION:
At its first meeting after June 1 of each year, the commission shall elect a
Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary for the next twelve (12) month period. Upon the
absence of the Chair, the Vice Chair shall serve as Chair Pro Tem. If the
Secretary is absent from a specific meeting, the attending members shall elect
a Secretary Pro Tem for the meeting. If a vacancy occurs in the Chair, Vice
Chair or Secretary positions, the commission shall elect a member to fill the
vacancy at the next meeting. The Secretary need not be a member of the
commission and shall keep an accurate record of all commission proceedings.
(Ord. 18-07, 2-20-2018)
2-5-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Two (2) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a
quorum of the commission may transact any business or conduct any proceedings
before the commission. The concurring vote of two (2) members of the commission
shall be necessary to decide any question or matter before the commission. The
commission shall adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of meetings
consistent with statutes, the City Charter, ordinances and resolutions.
Meetings of the commission shall be held at the call of the Chair, Chief of
Police or City Manager, and at such other times as the commission may
determine. All meetings shall be open to the public. (Ord. 18-07, 2-20-2018)
2-5-6: ENFORCEMENT OF DECISIONS:
Pursuant to Montana Code 7-32-4161, the City Manager shall make orders
enforcing the decisions of the commission. (Ord. 18-07, 2-20-2018)
2-5-7: STAFF SUPERVISION:
The commission shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct the Chief
of Police or other staff in the performance of their official duties.
Commission involvement in the operations of the Police Department shall be
limited to comment and recommendations. (Ord. 18-07, 2-20-2018)
2-5-8: EXPENDITURES:
The commission shall have no authority to make any expenditures on behalf of
the City or disburse any funds provided by the City or to obligate the City for
any funds. (Ord. 18-07, 2-20-2018)
CHAPTER 6
MOUNTAIN TRAILS ICE RINK ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-6-1: Committee Established
2-6-2: Purpose, Powers And Duties
2-6-3: Membership
2-6-4: Organization
2-6-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-6-6: Staff Supervision
2-6-7: Expenditures
2-6-1: COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Mountain Trails Ice Rink advisory committee as a
committee for the city board of park commissioners, hereinafter referred to as
the committee. (Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-6-2: PURPOSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
The purpose and duties of the committee are to provide input, advice and
recommendations to the city council, park board of commissioners and city staff
on matters of pertinence and interest related to the Mountain Trails Ice Rink,
including associated buildings and grounds. Such input, advice and
recommendations may include matters related to operations, maintenance and
facility alterations related to ice skating activities. The committee shall
report its input, advice and recommendations primarily to the park board of
commissioners and city staff. The committee shall act in an advisory capacity
only. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to provide the committee with
the power to authorize or prohibit city projects and programs, the use of
public funds or to authorize privately funded projects on public property.
(Ord. 02-09, 4-1-2002)
2-6-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee shall have nine (9) members.
Members shall be appointed by the board of park commissioners. Not less than
six (6) members shall reside within the corporate limits of the city. Three (3)
members may reside within the Whitefish planning jurisdictional boundary.
Members shall have maintained residency within specified boundary requirements
for one year prior to appointment to the committee. The board of park
commissioners shall appoint members according to the following representation
categories: one member who is also the mayor or a city councilor; one member
who is also a member of the park board of commissioners; one member
representative of the patrons who use the ice rink during open skating periods
and not affiliated with any of the other skating, hockey or curling groups with
a designated committee member; one member recommended by the adult hockey
group; one member recommended by the Whitefish Figure Skating Association; one
member recommended by the Glacier Hockey Association; one member recommended by
the Curling Club; and two (2) members who shall be public members at large and
not affiliated with any of the other skating, hockey or curling groups with a
designated committee member. The city clerk shall make appropriate notation of
a member's representation category on the official committee roster. Committee
members shall receive no compensation. Contracted consultants and city staff
shall not serve as members, but may assist and participate in the facilitation
of committee business. (Ord. 14-13, 11-17-2014)
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be two (2) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 9 inclusive of the members of the
committee. The initial terms for members serving pursuant to this chapter shall
begin upon appointment and terminate on the date specified below for each
position:
Position Number Position Specification Initial Expiration Date
Position Number Position Specification      Initial Expiration Date
1               Mayor or councilor          May 31, 2003
2               Open skating representative May 31, 2003
3               Adult hockey                May 31, 2003
4               Figure Skating Association  May 31, 2003
5               Glacier Hockey Association  May 31, 2004
6               Public member at large      May 31, 2004
7               Park board                  May 31, 2004
8               Curling Club representative May 31, 2014
9               Public member at large      May 31, 2013
 
Thereafter members appointed to each position shall serve for two (2) year
terms; the first of such terms beginning on June 1 of the year in which the
initial term for the position expires. At the discretion of the city board of
park commissioners, members may be appointed for more than one term.
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member may be removed from the committee by
majority vote of the city board of park commissioners for cause upon written
charges and after a public hearing. Wilful disregard of this chapter and the
rules of procedures of the committee, or absences from three (3) consecutive
meetings, including regular and special meetings, or absences from more than
fifty percent (50%) of such meetings held during the calendar year, shall
constitute cause for removal. Circumstances of the absences shall be considered
by the city council prior to removal. Any person who knows in advance of his
inability to attend a specific meeting shall notify the chair or secretary of
the committee at least twenty four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the committee shall be filled by the city board of park commissioners acting
in a regular or special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein
the vacancy exists. The city council may appoint members of the city board of
park commissioners to temporarily fill vacant positions on the committee. (Ord.
15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-6-4: ORGANIZATION:
At its first meeting after June 1 of each year, the committee shall elect a
chair, vice chair and secretary for the next twelve (12) month period. Upon the
absence of the chair, the vice chair shall serve as chair pro tem. If the
secretary is absent from a specific meeting, the attending members shall elect
a secretary pro tem for the meeting. If a vacancy occurs in the chair, vice
chair or secretary positions, the committee shall elect a member to fill the
vacancy at the next meeting. The secretary need not be a member of the
committee and shall keep an accurate record of all committee proceedings. (Ord.
02-09, 4-1-2002)
2-6-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Five (5) members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a
quorum of the committee may transact any business before the committee. The
concurring vote of a simple majority of members present shall be necessary to
decide any question or matter before the committee. The committee shall adopt
rules of procedure for the conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the
city charter, ordinances and resolutions. Meetings of the committee shall be
held at least once every three (3) months or at the call of the chair or the
parks and recreation director, and at such other times as the committee may
determine. All meetings shall be open to the public. (Ord. 12-08, 6-4-2012)
2-6-6: STAFF SUPERVISION:
The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct city staff
in the performance of their official duties. Pursuant to the city charter, all
authority to appoint, suspend and remove employees is reserved to the city
manager. (Ord. 02-09, 4-1-2002)
2-6-7: EXPENDITURES:
The committee shall have no authority to make any expenditures on behalf of the
city or disburse any funds provided by the city or to obligate the city for any
funds. (Ord. 02-09, 4-1-2002)
CHAPTER 7
WHITEFISH TREE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-7-1: Committee Established
2-7-2: Purpose, Powers And Duties
2-7-3: Membership
2-7-4: Organization
2-7-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-7-6: Staff Supervision
2-7-7: Expenditures
2-7-1: COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Whitefish tree advisory committee for the city
board of park commissioners, hereinafter referred to as the committee. (Ord.
15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-7-2: PURPOSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
The purpose and duties of the committee are to provide advice and
recommendations to the city park board of commissioners and city staff on
matters of pertinence and interest related to the city's urban forest. The
committee shall report its advice and recommendations primarily to the park
board of commissioners and city staff. The committee shall act in an advisory
capacity only. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to provide the
committee with the power to authorize or prohibit the use of public funds.
(Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-7-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee shall have seven (7) members.
Members shall be appointed by the board of park commissioners. Not less than
four (4) members shall reside within the corporate limits of the city. Two (2)
members may reside within the school district 44 area. Two (2) members who are
practicing professional arborists, landscapers and landscape architects, who
also maintain a business within the Whitefish planning jurisdictional boundary,
may serve without regard to residential standing. Members shall have maintained
residency within specified boundary requirements for one year prior to
appointment to the committee. The board of park commissioners shall appoint
members according to the following representation categories: one member who is
also the mayor or a city councilor; one member who is also a member of the park
board of commissioners; and five (5) members who are citizen members at large.
The board of park commissioners shall attempt to appoint up to two (2) members
of the aforementioned five (5) members at large who are practicing professional
arborists, landscapers or landscape architects. The city clerk shall make
appropriate notation of a member's representation category on the official
committee roster. Committee members shall receive no compensation. Contracted
consultants and city staff shall not serve as members, but may assist and
participate in the facilitation of committee business. (Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be two (2) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 7 inclusive of the members of the
committee. Except for the positions specified for the mayor or a city councilor
and the park board member, the committee existing at the time of enactment of
this chapter shall determine by lot which members shall fill which positions.
The initial terms for members serving pursuant to this chapter shall begin with
the effective date of this chapter and terminate on the date specified below
for each position:
Position Number Position Specification Initial Expiration Date
Position Number Position Specification Initial Expiration Date
1               Mayor or councilor     May 31, 2002
2               Park board             May 31, 2002
3               Member at large        May 31, 2002
4               Member at large        May 31, 2002
5               Member at large        May 31, 2003
6               Member at large        May 31, 2003
7               Member at large        May 31, 2003
 
Thereafter members appointed to each position shall serve for two (2) year
terms; the first of such terms beginning on June 1 of the year in which the
initial term for the position expires. At the discretion of the city council,
members may be appointed for more than one term.
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member may be removed from the committee by
majority vote of the city council for cause upon written charges and after a
public hearing. Wilful disregard of this chapter and the rules of procedures of
the committee, or absences from three (3) consecutive meetings, including
regular and special meetings, or absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of
such meetings held during the calendar year, shall constitute cause for
removal. Circumstances of the absences shall be considered by the city council
prior to removal. Any person who knows in advance of his inability to attend a
specific meeting shall notify the chair or secretary of the committee at least
twenty four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the committee shall be filled by the city council acting in a regular or
special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy
exists. The city council may appoint members of the city council to temporarily
fill vacant positions on the committee. (Ord. 02-19, 6-3-2002)
2-7-4: ORGANIZATION:
At its first meeting after June 1 of each year, the committee shall elect a
chair, vice chair and secretary for the next twelve (12) month period. Upon the
absence of the chair, the vice chair shall serve as chair pro tem. If the
secretary is absent from a specific meeting, the attending members shall elect
a secretary pro tem for the meeting. If a vacancy occurs in the chair, vice
chair or secretary positions, the committee shall elect a member to fill the
vacancy at the next meeting. The secretary need not be a member of the
committee and shall keep an accurate record of all committee proceedings. (Ord.
02-19, 6-3-2002)
2-7-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Four (4) members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a
quorum of the committee may transact any business before the committee. The
concurring vote of a simple majority of members present shall be necessary to
decide any question or matter before the committee. The committee shall adopt
rules of procedure for the conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the
city charter, ordinances and resolutions. Meetings of the committee shall be
held at least once every three (3) months or at the call of the chair or the
parks and recreation director, and at such other times as the committee may
determine. All meetings shall be open to the public. (Ord. 02-19, 6-3-2002)
2-7-6: STAFF SUPERVISION:
The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct city staff
in the performance of their official duties. (Ord. 02-19, 6-3-2002)
2-7-7: EXPENDITURES:
The committee shall have no authority to make any expenditures on behalf of the
city or disburse any funds provided by the city or to obligate the city for any
funds. (Ord. 02-19, 6-3-2002)
CHAPTER 8
PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE PATH ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-8-1: Standing Committee Established
2-8-2: Purpose, Powers, Processes And Duties
2-8-3: Membership
2-8-4: Organization
2-8-5: Meetings; Rules And Regulations
2-8-6: Staff Supervision
2-8-7: No Expenditures Authorized
2-8-8: Easement Negotiators
2-8-9: Fish Trails Coordinators
2-8-1: STANDING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a pedestrian and bicycle path advisory committee
(hereinafter "committee"). (Ord. 05-30, 12-5-2005)
2-8-2: PURPOSE, POWERS, PROCESSES AND DUTIES:
The purpose and duties of the committee are to provide advice and
recommendations to the city park board of commissioners, pedestrian and bicycle
path easement negotiators 1  (hereinafter "easement negotiators") and city
staff on matters of pertinence and interest related to the development of
pedestrian and bicycle trails pursuant to the Whitefish pedestrian and bicycle
path master plan. The committee shall report its advice and recommendations
primarily to the park board of commissioners and the easement negotiators. The
committee shall act in an advisory capacity only. Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to provide the committee with the power to authorize or prohibit
the use of public funds. The committee shall be entitled to conduct fundraising
activities and expend any funds raised for purposes related to the city's
pedestrian and bicycle paths. In conducting fundraising activities, the
committee shall not be entitled to incur indebtedness that could be charged
against the city. (Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-8-8 of this chapter.
2-8-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointments; Compensation: The committee shall have seven (7) members
and may have eight (8) members. Members shall be appointed by the city board of
park commissioners. Not less than four (4) of the mandatory members shall
reside within the corporate limits of the city. Three (3) of the mandatory
members may reside within the school district 44 area. Members shall have
maintained residency within specified boundary requirements for one year prior
to appointment to the committee. The city board of park commissioners shall
appoint members according to the following representation categories: one
member who is also the mayor or a city councilor; one member who is also a
member of the park board of commissioners; one member who is also a member of
the resort tax monitoring committee; and four (4) members who are citizen
members at large. The city board of park commissioners may, but is not required
to, appoint an eighth member who is a high school representative and who lives
within the Whitefish school district. The city manager shall serve on the
committee in an ex officio capacity. The city clerk shall make appropriate
notation of a member's representation category on the official committee
roster. Committee members shall receive no compensation. Contracted consultants
and city staff, except as otherwise provided for by the city manager, shall not
serve as members, but may assist and participate in the facilitation of
committee business.
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be two (2) years, except for
the high school representative which shall be a one year term. There are hereby
created positions numbered 1 through 8 inclusive of the members of the
committee. The term for members serving pursuant to this chapter terminate on
the date specified below for each position:
Position Number Representation Category Initial Expiration Date
Position Number Representation Category    Initial Expiration Date
1               Mayor or councilor         May 31, 2007
2               Member at large            May 31, 2007
3               Member at large            May 31, 2007
4               Resort tax committee       May 31, 2006
5               Member at large            May 31, 2006
6               Park board                 May 31, 2006
7               Member at large            May 31, 2006
8               High school representative May 31, 2017
 
Thereafter members appointed to each position shall serve for two (2) year
terms, except for the high school representative which shall serve for a one
year term; the first of such terms beginning on June 1 of the year in which the
term for the position expires. At the discretion of the city council, members
may be appointed for more than one term. (Ord. 16-10, 6-20-2016)
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member may be removed from the committee by
majority vote of the city council for cause upon written charges and after a
public hearing. Wilful disregard of this chapter and the rules of procedures of
the committee, or absences from three (3) consecutive meetings, including
regular and special meetings, or absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of
such meetings held during the calendar year, shall constitute cause for
removal. Circumstances of the absences shall be considered by the city council
prior to removal. Any person who knows in advance of his or her inability to
attend a specific meeting shall notify the chairperson or secretary of the
committee at least twenty four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the committee shall be filled by the city council acting in a regular or
special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy
exists. The city council may appoint members of the city council to temporarily
fill vacant positions on the committee. (Ord. 05-30, 12-5-2005)
2-8-4: ORGANIZATION:
The committee, at its first meeting after June 1 of each year, shall elect a
chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary for the next twelve (12) month
period. Upon the absence of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall serve
as chairperson pro tem. If the secretary is absent from a specific meeting, the
attending members shall elect a secretary pro tem for the meeting. If a vacancy
occurs in the chairperson, vice chairperson or secretary positions, the
committee shall elect a member to fill the vacancy at the next meeting. The
secretary need not be a member of the committee and shall keep an accurate
record of all committee proceedings. (Ord. 05-30, 12-5-2005)
2-8-5: MEETINGS; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Four (4) members of the committee shall constitute a quorum if the city board
of park commissioners does not appoint a high school representative. Five (5)
members of the committee shall constitute a quorum if the city board of park
commissioners does appoint a high school representative. Not less than a quorum
of the committee may transact any business before the committee. The concurring
vote of a simple majority of members present shall be necessary to decide any
question or matter before the committee. The high school representative is a
voting member. The committee shall adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of
meetings consistent with statutes, the city charter, ordinances and
resolutions. Meetings of the committee shall be held at least once every three
(3) months or at the call of the chairperson or the easement negotiators, and
at such other times as the committee may determine. All meetings shall be open
to the public. (Ord. 16-10, 6-20-2016)
2-8-6: STAFF SUPERVISION:
The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct city staff
in the performance of their official duties. (Ord. 05-30, 12-5-2005)
2-8-7: NO EXPENDITURES AUTHORIZED:
The committee shall not have authority to make any expenditures on behalf of
the city or disburse any funds provided by the city or to obligate the city for
any funds. (Ord. 05-30, 12-5-2005)
2-8-8: EASEMENT NEGOTIATORS:
   A.   Negotiators Established: There are hereby established two (2)
appointive positions to be known as the pedestrian and bicycle path easement
negotiators (hereinafter "negotiators").
   B.   Purpose, Powers And Duties: The purpose and duties of the negotiators
are to represent the city in easement negotiations related to the development
of pedestrian and bicycle trails pursuant to the Whitefish pedestrian and
bicycle path master plan. The negotiators shall be the only individuals
authorized to represent the city in trail easement negotiations. All agreements
developed between the negotiators and property owners shall require approval by
the city council to gain acceptance by the city.
   C.   Membership: The city council shall appoint two (2) negotiators and
designate a lead negotiator from among the two (2) appointments. Except for
city employees, negotiators shall receive no compensation. Negotiators shall
serve indefinite terms at the pleasure and discretion of the city council.
Negotiators serving on the effective date of this chapter shall, within the
discretion of the city council, continue in their respective positions.
   D.   Lead Negotiator: The lead negotiator shall decide plans, methods used,
offers tendered and concessions made in negotiating easement agreements. The
lead negotiator is authorized to include other individuals in negotiation
meetings if, in his discretion, such individuals would be helpful in developing
an easement agreement. (Ord. 02-12, 4-1-2002)
2-8-9: FISH TRAILS COORDINATORS:
There is hereby established the positions within the committee of "Fish Trails
coordinators". There shall be three (3) Fish Trails coordinators appointed by
the committee from among its members or from the two (2) easement negotiators
(established by ordinance 02-12). Committee members and easement negotiators
may serve as Fish Trails coordinators only so long as they remain members of
the committee or appointed as easement negotiators. The terms for Fish Trails
coordinators shall terminate on the date specified for each position.
 
Position Number Expiration Date
1               May 31, 2006
2               May 31, 2006
3               May 31, 2006
 
Thereafter Fish Trails coordinators shall serve one year terms, the first of
such terms beginning on June 1 of the year in which the term for the position
expires. Coordinators may be appointed for more than one term. The parks and
recreation director shall serve as an ex officio Fish Trails coordinator.
The Fish Trails coordinators shall endeavor to promote awareness of and
enthusiasm for the Whitefish trails system. The Fish Trails coordinators shall,
with the assistance of volunteers, be responsible for the following matters,
and for any other matters that the committee assigns that are consistent with
this chapter:
   A.   Maintenance of the Fish Trails website;
   B.   Publishing of the Fish Trails newsletter;
   C.   Organizing events related to the city's trails system;
   D.   Handling public relations for Fish Trails events and the city's trails
system;
   E.   Attracting and increasing Fish Trails membership as a method of
fundraising;
   F.   Attracting and directing volunteers to assist with various Fish Trails
projects and activities; and
   G.   Conducting fundraising efforts.
Fish Trails coordinators may be removed, and vacancies may be filled, by the
committee. Fish Trails coordinators shall make decisions by majority vote. Fish
Trails coordinators shall be primarily advisory to the committee, and shall
obtain committee approval of projects that it undertakes. All meetings shall be
open to the public. The coordinators shall not make expenditures or disburse
funds on behalf of the city. (Ord. 05-30, 12-5-2005)
CHAPTER 9
INSURANCE COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-9-1: Standing Committee Established
2-9-2: Definition
2-9-3: Purpose, Powers, And Duties
2-9-4: Membership
2-9-5: Organization
2-9-6: Meetings; Rules And Regulations
2-9-7: Supervision Of Staff
2-9-8: No Expenditure Authorized
2-9-1: STANDING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an insurance committee, hereinafter "committee".
(Ord. 10-09, 4-19-2010)
2-9-2: DEFINITION:
HEALTH INSURANCE: Includes medical, vision, dental, prescription drugs, and
life insurance. (Ord. 10-09, 4-19-2010)
2-9-3: PURPOSE, POWERS, AND DUTIES:
The purpose and duties of the committee are to make decisions regarding the
procurement of health insurance for city employees. As part of the budget
process each year, the city council shall evaluate and determine the amount of
funds that the city can contribute toward the cost of health insurance premiums
for the following fiscal year. Such determination shall be based, in part, on
the need to ensure that the city has competitive benefits for its employees.
Thereafter, the insurance committee shall investigate, analyze, and determine
the precise nature of health insurance benefits that the city will be capable
of purchasing in the future. In conducting its investigation and analysis, the
committee shall be empowered to consider the city's current plan, alternative
plans, plan components, coverage levels, multi-jurisdictional insurance pools,
self-insurance pools, and any other method of permitting the city to provide
health insurance benefits for its employees at the cost determined by the city
council. Coverage requiring premiums in excess of the council's funding level
may be adopted, but only after an affirmative vote of the committee. Any such
excess premiums shall be paid by the covered employees. The committee shall
provide its final decision to the city council as soon as is practicable. (Ord.
10-09, 4-19-2010)
2-9-4: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee shall have thirteen (13)
members. Two (2) members shall be appointed by the Whitefish Police Protective
Association from its membership. Two (2) members shall be appointed by the
public works employees union, local no. 2943, from its membership. Two (2)
members shall be appointed by the International Association Of Firefighters,
local 3995, from its membership. The nonunion, nonexempt public works employees
shall choose a member from among themselves. The city clerk's staff shall
select a nonunion, nonexempt employee from among themselves. The building
department employees shall select a nonunion, nonexempt employee from among
themselves. The parks department employees shall select a nonunion, nonexempt
employee from among themselves. The court clerk's staff shall select a
nonunion, nonexempt employee from among themselves. The city department heads
shall select two (2) members from among themselves. The committee shall also
have three (3) ex officio, nonvoting members, which shall consist of two (2)
city council members, selected by the city council, and the city manager. All
appointments shall be made in writing, directed to the city clerk. The city
clerk shall make appropriate notation of a member's representation category on
the official committee roster. Committee members shall receive no additional
compensation above that already provided by the city. Contracted consultants
and other city staff shall not serve as members, but may assist and participate
in the facilitation of committee business.
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be two (2) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 13 for voting members of the
committee and positions numbered 14 through 16 for ex officio, nonvoting
members. Seven (7) of the initial voting members, however, and one of the
initial ex officio members, shall be appointed to one year terms, so that the
expiration of the terms of the committee members will be staggered. Where one
entity or group is allowed two (2) appointments, that entity or group shall
determine which of its appointees shall serve a one year term and which shall
serve a two (2) year term. The initial term for members serving pursuant to
this chapter shall begin with the effective date of this chapter and terminate
on the date specified below for each position:
PositionNumber Representation Category Initial Expiration Date
PositionNumber Representation Category                  Initial Expiration Date
               Voting Members
1              Police association                       February 29, 2004
2              Police association                       February 28, 2005
3              Public works union                       February 29, 2004
4              Public works union                       February 28, 2005
5              Firemen union                            February 29, 2004
6              Firemen union                            February 28, 2005
7              Public works, nonunion, nonexempt        February 29, 2004
8              City clerk's office, nonunion, nonexempt February 28, 2005
9              Building department, nonunion, nonexempt February 29, 2004
10             Parks department, nonunion, nonexempt    February 28, 2005
11             Court clerk's office, nonunion,          February 29, 2004
               nonexempt
12             Department director                      February 28, 2005
13             Department director                      February 29, 2004
               Ex Officio Members
14             Council member                           February 28, 2005
15             Council member                           February 29, 2004
16             City manager                             Indefinite
 
Thereafter members appointed to each position shall serve for two (2) year
terms; the first of such terms beginning on July 1 of the year in which the
initial term for the position expires.
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member may be removed from the committee by a
three-fifths (3/5) vote of the voting members of the committee for cause upon
written charges and after a public hearing. Wilful disregard of this chapter
and the rules of procedures of the committee, or absences from three (3)
consecutive meetings, including regular and special meetings, or absences from
more than fifty percent (50%) of such meetings held during the calendar year
shall constitute cause for removal. Circumstances of the absences shall be
considered by the committee prior to removal. Any person who knows in advance
of his or her inability to attend a specific meeting shall notify the
chairperson or secretary of the committee at least twenty four (24) hours prior
to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: If any member position on the committee becomes vacant, it
shall be filled as soon as possible by the entity or group that originally
appointed the position. Upon appointment to fill the vacancy, the appointing
entity or group shall notify the city clerk in writing of such appointment.
(Ord. 10-09, 4-19-2010)
2-9-5: ORGANIZATION:
The committee, at its first meeting of each fiscal year, shall elect a
chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary for the next twelve (12) month
period. Upon the absence of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall serve
as chairperson pro tem. If the secretary is absent from a specific meeting, the
attending members shall elect a secretary pro tem for the meeting. If a vacancy
occurs in the chairperson, vice chairperson or secretary positions, the
committee shall elect a member to fill the vacancy at the next meeting. The
secretary need not be a member of the committee and shall keep an accurate
record of all committee proceedings. (Ord. 10-09, 4-19-2010)
2-9-6: MEETINGS; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
A simple majority of the appointed committee members shall constitute a quorum.
Not less than a quorum of the committee may transact any business before the
committee. The concurring vote of a simple majority of members present shall be
necessary to decide any question or matter before the committee. The committee
shall adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of meetings consistent with
statutes, the city charter, ordinances and resolutions. The committee shall
meet as needed. All meetings shall be open to the public. (Ord. 10-09, 4-19-
2010)
2-9-7: SUPERVISION OF STAFF:
The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct city staff
in the performance of their official duties. (Ord. 10-09, 4-19-2010)
2-9-8: NO EXPENDITURE AUTHORIZED:
Other than the duties of the committee as outlined above, the committee shall
not have any additional authority to make any expenditures on behalf of the
city or disburse any funds provided by the city or to obligate the city for any
funds. (Ord. 10-09, 4-19-2010)
CHAPTER 10
ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-10-1: Committee Established
2-10-2: Purpose, Powers And Duties
2-10-3: Membership
2-10-4: Organization
2-10-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-10-6: Staff Supervision
2-10-7: Expenditures
2-10-1: COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an architectural review committee, hereinafter
"committee". (Ord. 03-26, 9-15-2003)
2-10-2: PURPOSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Primary Purpose: The primary purpose of the committee is to review and
make a recommendation to staff on applications submitted to the city by
individuals or entities proposing to construct commercial, industrial, public
or municipal buildings, or two-unit townhouses or greater residential
structures within the city of Whitefish zoning jurisdiction, as provided more
fully in the city of Whitefish architectural review standards. Upon receipt of
a formal application determined to be complete, the committee will conduct a
meeting regarding the proposed application, and its compliance with the city of
Whitefish architectural review standards. The committee must make one of the
following recommendations to staff at the time of the meeting: to approve, to
approve with conditions, to table the application pending submission of
revisions or additional materials, or to deny the applicant's proposal. The
committee's recommendation will be announced at the meeting, and its
recommendation, together with findings supporting its decision, must be
provided to the applicant, in writing, within five (5) working days of such
meeting. The applicant may appeal an architectural review decision to the city
council by delivering a written letter of appeal to the planning director
within ten (10) days of the written decision. More information regarding the
necessary content of an appeal, and the process before the city council, may be
found in the Whitefish zoning jurisdiction regulations.
   B.   Secondary Purpose: The secondary purpose of the committee is to make
recommendations to the city's planning staff with respect to proposed
amendments to the city of Whitefish architectural review standards, or the
procedures utilized by the committee. (Ord. 03-26, 9-15-2003; amd. Ord. 23-14,
8-21-2023)
2-10-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee shall have seven (7) members
who either reside within the corporate limits of the city of Whitefish, are
employed or own a business in the city of Whitefish, or own property in the
city of Whitefish. Members shall be appointed by the city council. Two (2) of
the committee members shall be Montana licensed architects and one of the
members shall be a licensed design professional (i.e., either architect,
engineer or landscape architect). If, within the discretion of the city
council, less than two (2) licensed architects or one licensed design
professional, as described above, is identified after publication of a notice
of position vacancy, the city council may make an appointment of an individual
that is not a licensed architect or licensed design professional, or is a
licensed architect or design professional who resides, is employed, or owns a
business or property in the 59937 zip code. No member of the committee shall
concurrently serve on the Whitefish city council or the Whitefish community
development board. No member of the committee with any interest in a project
may sit in review of that project, or attempt to influence other members of the
committee other than through the normal application and public meeting process.
Committee members shall receive no compensation.
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be three (3) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 7 inclusive. The initial term of
members in each position shall begin on June 1, 2003, and terminate on the date
specified below for each position:
Position Number Position Specification Initial Expiration Date
Position Number Position Specification Initial Expiration Date
1               Member                 May 31, 2004
2               Member                 May 31, 2004
3               Member                 May 31, 2004
4               Member                 May 31, 2005
5               Member                 May 31, 2005
6               Member                 May 31, 2006
7               Member                 May 31, 2006
 
In making the initial appointments, the city council shall determine which
appointees shall serve one, two (2) or three (3) year terms. Thereafter members
appointed to each position shall serve for three (3) year terms. At the
discretion of the city council, members may be appointed for more than one
term.
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member of the committee serves at the pleasure of
the council and may be removed by a majority vote of the same. Absences from
three (3) consecutive meetings, including regular and special work sessions, or
absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of such meetings held during the
calendar year shall constitute grounds for removal. Circumstances of the
absences shall be considered by the city council prior to removal. Any person
who knows in advance of his or her inability to attend a specific meeting shall
notify the chairperson or secretary of the committee at least twenty four (24)
hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the committee shall be filled by the city council acting in a regular or
special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy
exists.
(Ord. 03-26, 9-15-2003; amd. Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; Ord. 20-02, 2-3-2020; Ord.
23-27, 11-20-2023)
2-10-4: ORGANIZATION:
The committee, at its first meeting after June 1 of each year, shall elect a
chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary for the next twelve (12) month
period. Upon the absence of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall serve
as chairperson pro tem. If both the chairperson and the vice chairperson are
absent from a specific meeting, the attending members shall elect a chairperson
pro tem for the meeting. If the secretary is absent from a specific meeting,
the attending members shall elect a secretary pro tem for the meeting. If a
vacancy occurs in the chairperson, vice chairperson or secretary positions, the
committee shall elect a member to fill the vacancy at the next meeting. The
secretary need not be a member of the committee and shall keep an accurate
record of all committee proceedings. (Ord. 03-26, 9-15-2003)
2-10-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Four (4) members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a
quorum of the committee may transact any business or conduct any proceedings
before the committee. The committee shall adopt rules of procedure for the
conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the city charter, ordinances and
resolutions. The committee shall meet as frequently as is necessary in order to
provide a timely decision with respect to all applications that it considers.
The committee shall decide the time, place and date of meetings. All meetings
shall be open to the public. (Ord. 17-02, 2-21-2017)
2-10-6: STAFF SUPERVISION:
The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct city staff
in the performance of their official duties. (Ord. 03-26, 9-15-2003)
2-10-7: EXPENDITURES:
The committee shall not have authority to make any expenditures on behalf of
the city or disburse any funds provided by the city or to obligate the city for
any funds except as has been included in the city budget and after the city
council shall have authorized the expenditure by resolution, which resolution
shall provide the administrative method by which funds shall be drawn and
expended. (Ord. 03-26, 9-15-2003)
CHAPTER 11
WEED EDUCATION OUTREACH COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-11-1: Established
2-11-2: Purpose
2-11-3: Membership
2-11-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a weed education outreach committee (the
"committee") as a volunteer committee to the city board of park commissioners.
(Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-11-2: PURPOSE:
The mission of the committee shall be community educational outreach to develop
recommendations to the city board of park commissioners for a weed control
strategy, and to educate the public to create an increased awareness and
knowledge of methods of controlling noxious weeds. The committee shall have no
independent authority to commit or spend city funds, or to direct city staff.
(Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
2-11-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee will be made up of volunteers
from the community. Volunteers shall receive no compensation. City councilors,
park board commissioners and city staff members will not be appointed to the
committee, but may assist and participate in the facilitation of community
educational outreach. (Ord. 15-05, 4-6-2015)
CHAPTER 12
CONVENTION AND VISITOR BUREAU COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-12-1: Standing Committee Established
2-12-2: Purpose, Powers, Processes And Duties
2-12-3: Membership
2-12-4: Organization
2-12-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-12-6: Staff Supervision
2-12-7: Expenditures
2-12-8: Committee As Board Of Directors
2-12-1: STANDING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a standing committee to be called the "Whitefish
convention and visitor bureau committee", hereinafter referred to as the
committee. (Ord. 06-05, 3-20-2006)
2-12-2: PURPOSE, POWERS, PROCESSES AND DUTIES:
The purpose and duties of the committee are:
   A.   To be the designated nonprofit convention and visitors' bureau for the
city of Whitefish;
   B.   To develop an annual marketing plan and budget for each fiscal year,
which annual marketing plan and budget will be presented to the Whitefish city
council for approval;
   C.   To submit the annual marketing plan approved by the Whitefish city
council to the Montana tourism advisory council and receive approval by the
tourism advisory council of such annual marketing plan;
   D.   To contract with the Montana department of commerce to receive lodging
tax revenues earmarked for tourism promotion and disbursed pursuant to section
15-65-121, Montana Code Annotated;
   E.   To implement the annual marketing plan referenced above, and use the
proceeds distributed by the Montana department of commerce pursuant to the
budget approved by the Whitefish city council;
   F.   To comply with all of the provisions contained under the category
"eligible organizations" in the "Regulations And Procedures For Regional/CVB
Tourism Organizations Use Of Lodging Facility Use Tax Revenue" promulgated by
the Montana department of commerce;
   G.   To provide recommendations and advice to the Whitefish city council, as
appropriate, regarding tourism promotion; (Ord. 06-05, 3-20-2006)
   H.   To solicit nonvoting members residing in or owning a business located
in the Whitefish postal district (59937), if the committee determines it to be
in the best interests of the committee and in the best interests of tourism
promotion; such members may be required by the committee to pay an annual fee
for membership; (Ord. 15-15, 9-8-2015)
   I.   To conduct such additional activities with regard to tourism promotion
as are determined by the committee to be in the best interests of the committee
and of the city of Whitefish; and (Ord. 06-05, 3-20-2006)
   J.   To create a new classification of members, to be called "associate
members", which would have the following characteristics:
      1.   The associate member must provide a significant activity, experience
or service that is not already provided in the Whitefish postal district
(59937).
      2.   The associate member must agree to all obligations and duties
applicable to regular members of the WCVB.
      3.   The associate member must be nominated by a convention and visitor
bureau standing city committee member (board member of the WCVB) and be
approved by a majority of the standing city committee (board of the WCVB).
Associate members cannot participate in the nomination or recommendation of
board positions, nor can they serve on the board. Otherwise, however, they will
have the same rights as other members. (Ord. 15-15, 9-8-2015)
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to provide the committee with the
power to authorize the use of public funds other than those funds specifically
identified in the committee's annual budget and approved by the Whitefish city
council. The committee shall be entitled to conduct fundraising activities,
including charging a membership fee, and expend any funds raised for purposes
related to tourism promotion. In conducting fundraising activities, the
committee shall not be entitled to incur indebtedness that could be charged
against the city. (Ord. 06-05, 3-20-2006)
2-12-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee shall have up to nine (9)
members. Members shall be appointed by the city council. At least seven (7)
members shall reside in the city of Whitefish postal district (59937). Two (2)
members may reside in Flathead County, but outside the city of Whitefish postal
district (59937), as long as the member has an ownership interest or managerial
position at a business located and operating within the city of Whitefish
postal district (59937). The city council shall endeavor to appoint members who
represent one of the following business categories, and that have broad
experience in and a current understanding of the following types of businesses:
   Finance
   Large lodging properties
   Restaurant and bar business
   Retail businesses
   Small lodging properties
   Transportation business
   Whitefish Golf Course
Whitefish Mountain Resort
The city clerk shall make a notation of a member's representation category and
a member's residence to facilitate appointment to categories not represented.
However, the city council shall be entitled to appoint those individuals that
it determines most qualified, regardless of representation category. The city
council may appoint one of its members to serve as an ex officio (nonvoting)
member of the committee. Committee members shall receive no compensation. (Ord.
15-15, 9-8-2015)
   B.   Terms Of Members: Committee terms shall be for three (3) years,
although several of the terms of the initial appointees may be slightly longer
than three (3) years. There are hereby created positions numbered 1 through 9
inclusive of the members of the committee. Three (3) of the initial appointees
shall serve three (3) year terms. Two (2) of the initial appointees shall serve
two (2) year terms. Two (2) of the initial appointees shall serve one year
terms. Terms shall be assigned to the initial appointees randomly.
Position Number Position Specification Initial Expiration Date
Position Number Position Specification Initial Expiration Date
1               Member                 May 31, 2009
2               Member                 May 31, 2009
3               Member                 May 31, 2009
4               Member                 May 31, 2008
5               Member                 May 31, 2008
6               Member                 May 31, 2007
7               Member                 May 31, 2007
8               Member                 May 31, 2014
9               Member                 May 31, 2013
 
Thereafter members appointed to each position shall serve for three (3) year
terms; the terms beginning on June 1 of the year in which the term for the
position expires. At the discretion of the city council, members may be
appointed for more than one term. (Ord. 12-10, 7-2-2012)
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member may be removed from the committee by
majority vote of the city council for cause upon written charges and after a
public hearing. Wilful disregard of this chapter and the rules of procedure or
bylaws of the committee, or absences from three (3) consecutive meetings,
including regular and special meetings, or absences from more than fifty
percent (50%) of such meetings held during the calendar year, shall constitute
cause for removal. Circumstances of the absences shall be considered by the
city council prior to removal. Any person who knows in advance of his or her
inability to attend a specific meeting shall notify the chairperson or
secretary of the committee at least twenty four (24) hours prior to any
scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Any vacancy on the committee shall be filled by the city
council acting in a regular or special session for the unexpired term of the
position wherein the vacancy exists. The city council may appoint members of
the city council to temporarily fill vacant positions on the committee. (Ord.
06-05, 3-20-2006)
2-12-4: ORGANIZATION:
At its first meeting after the initial appointment of committee members, and
thereafter at its first meeting after June 1 of each year, the committee shall
elect officers, including a chairperson (also known as the president), vice
chairperson (also known as the vice president), treasurer and secretary for the
next twelve (12) month period. Upon the absence of the chairperson, the vice
chairperson shall serve as chairperson pro tem. If the secretary is absent from
a specific meeting, the attending members shall elect a secretary pro tem for
the meeting. If a vacancy occurs in the chairperson, vice chairperson,
treasurer or secretary positions, the committee shall elect a member to fill
the vacancy at the next meeting. The secretary need not be a member of the
committee and shall keep an accurate record of all committee proceedings. (Ord.
06-05, 3-20-2006)
2-12-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Five (5) members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a
quorum of the committee may transact any business before the committee. The
concurring vote of a simple majority of members present shall be necessary to
decide any question or matter before the committee. The committee shall adopt
bylaws for the conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the city charter,
ordinances and resolutions. Meetings of the committee shall be held at least
once every other month or at the call of the chairperson, and at such other
times as the committee may determine. All meetings shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 12-10, 7-2-2012)
2-12-6: STAFF SUPERVISION:
The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct city staff
in the performance of their official duties. (Ord. 06-05, 3-20-2006)
2-12-7: EXPENDITURES:
Other than those funds specifically identified in the committee's annual budget
and expenditure of which has been approved by the Whitefish city council, the
committee shall have no authority to make any expenditure on behalf of the city
or disburse any funds provided by the city or to obligate the city for any
funds. (Ord. 06-05, 3-20-2006)
2-12-8: COMMITTEE AS BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The committee shall serve as the board of directors of the Whitefish Convention
And Visitor Bureau, Inc., a Montana nonprofit corporation (the "nonprofit
corporation"). The officers of the committee shall serve in the same capacity
as officers of the nonprofit corporation. The articles of incorporation of the
nonprofit corporation shall be amended, as necessary and appropriate, to
conform to the terms of this chapter, and shall further provide that such
articles of incorporation shall not be further amended without approval of the
Whitefish city council. The committee, acting as board of directors of the
nonprofit corporation, shall adopt bylaws that conform to the terms of this
chapter and to the amended articles of incorporation, and thereafter such
bylaws shall not be amended without approval of the Whitefish city council. The
committee, acting as board of directors of the nonprofit corporation, may
provide that that nonprofit corporation may have members, and may solicit dues
or other contributions from such members; provided, however, that all of such
members shall be nonvoting members, and shall not be able to elect or remove
members of the board of directors, or amend the articles of incorporation or
bylaws of the nonprofit corporation. (Ord. 06-05, 3-20-2006)
CHAPTER 13
IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-13-1: Established
2-13-2: Purpose, Powers, And Duties
2-13-3: Membership
2-13-4: Organization
2-13-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-13-6: Staff Supervision
2-13-7: Expenditures
2-13-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Whitefish Impact Fee Advisory Committee,
hereinafter "committee". (Ord. 18-05, 2-5-2018)
2-13-2: PURPOSE, POWERS, AND DUTIES:
As provided in Montana Code Annotated, section 7-6-1604, the purpose and duties
of the committee are to review and monitor the process of calculating,
assessing, and spending impact fees. The committee shall serve in an advisory
capacity to the City Council. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
empower the committee to authorize or prohibit the use of public funds. (Ord.
18-05, 2-5-2018)
2-13-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee shall have five (5) members.
Members shall be appointed by the City Council. At least one member shall be a
representative of the development community, and shall reside or work within
City limits. One member shall be a City Councilor. One member shall be the City
Finance Director. Two (2) members shall be members at large, but shall work
within City limits. The City Clerk shall make appropriate notation of a
member's representation category on the official committee roster. Committee
members shall receive no compensation.
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be for two (2) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 5 inclusive of the members of the
committee. The initial term of the committee members shall be staggered, with
positions 1 through 3 serving two (2) year terms, and positions 4 and 5 serving
one- year terms. The initial term for members serving pursuant to this chapter
shall begin upon appointment and terminate on the date specified below for each
position:
 
Position Number Representation Category Initial Expiration Date
1               Development community   June 30, 2009
2               Member-at-large         June 30, 2009
3               City Councilor          June 30, 2009
4               City Finance Director   June 30, 2008
5               Member-at-large         June 30, 2008
 
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member may be removed from the committee by
majority vote of the City Council for cause upon written charges and after a
public hearing. Willful disregard of this chapter and the rules of procedures
of the committee, or absences from three (3) consecutive meetings, including
regular and special meetings, or absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of
such meetings held during the calendar year shall constitute cause for removal.
Circumstances of the absences shall be considered by the City Council prior to
removal. Any person who knows in advance of his or her inability to attend a
specific meeting shall notify the Chairperson or Secretary of the committee at
least twenty four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the committee shall be filled by the City Council acting in a regular or
special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy
exists. The City Council may appoint members of the City Council to temporarily
fill vacant positions on the committee. (Ord. 18-05, 2-5-2018)
2-13-4: ORGANIZATION:
The committee, at its first meeting after July 1 of each year, shall elect a
Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary for the next twelve (12) month
period. Upon the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall serve
as Chairperson Pro Tem. If the Secretary is absent from a specific meeting, the
attending members shall elect a Secretary Pro Tem for the meeting. If a vacancy
occurs in the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson or Secretary positions, the
committee shall elect a member to fill the vacancy at the next meeting. The
Secretary need not be a member of the committee and shall keep an accurate
record of all committee proceedings. (Ord. 18-05, 2-5-2018)
2-13-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Three (3) members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a
quorum of the committee may transact any business before the committee. The
concurring vote of a simple majority of members present shall be necessary to
decide any question or matter before the committee. The committee shall adopt
rules of procedure for the conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the
City Charter, ordinances and resolutions. The committee shall meet at least
annually, and at such other times as the committee may determine. All meetings
shall be open to the public. (Ord. 18-05, 2-5-2018)
2-13-6: STAFF SUPERVISION:
The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct City staff
in the performance of their official duties. (Ord. 18-05, 2-5-2018)
2-13-7: EXPENDITURES:
The committee shall not have authority to make any expenditures on behalf of
the City or disburse any funds provided by the City or to obligate the City for
any funds. (Ord. 18-05, 2-5-2018)
CHAPTER 14
WHITEFISH COMMUNITY LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-14-1: Board Of Trustees Established
2-14-2: Purpose, Powers, Processes, And Duties
2-14-3: Membership
2-14-4: Terms Of Trustees
2-14-5: Vacancy
2-14-6: Organization
2-14-1: BOARD OF TRUSTEES ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Board of Trustees to be called the "Whitefish
Community Library Board of Trustees", hereinafter referred to as the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 18-20, 7-2-2018)
2-14-2: PURPOSE, POWERS, PROCESSES, AND DUTIES:
As provided by Montana law, the Board of Trustees shall have exclusive control
of the expenditure of the Public Library Fund, construction or lease of library
buildings, and the operation and care of the library. The Board of Trustees
shall have the powers and duties currently provided in Montana Code Annotated,
section 22-1-309, as amended:
   A.   Adopt bylaws and rules for its own transaction of business and for the
government of the library, not inconsistent with law;
   B.   Establish and locate a central public library and may establish
branches thereof at such places as are deemed necessary;
   C.   Have the power to contract, including the right to contract with
regions, counties, cities, school districts, educational institutions, the
State Library, and other libraries, to give and receive library service,
through the boards of such regions, counties, and cities and the district
school boards, and to pay out or receive funds to pay costs of such contracts;
   D.   Have the power to acquire, by purchase, devise, lease or otherwise, and
to own and hold real and personal property in the name of the City or County or
both, as the case may be, for the use and purposes of the library and to sell,
exchange or otherwise dispose of property real or personal, when no longer
required by the library and to insure the real and personal property of the
library;
   E.   Pay necessary expenses of Trustees or the library staff when on
business of the library;
   F.   Prepare an annual budget, indicating what support and maintenance of
the public library will be required from public funds, for submission to the
appropriate agency of the Governing Body. A separate budget request shall be
submitted for new construction or for capital improvement of existing library
property;
   G.   Make an annual report to the Governing Body of the City or County on
the condition and operation of the library, including a financial statement.
The Trustees shall also provide for the keeping of such records as shall be
required by the Montana State Library in its request for an annual report from
the public libraries and shall submit such an annual report to the State
Library;
   H.   Have the power to accept gifts, grants, donations, devises, or bequests
of property, real or personal, from whatever source and to expend or hold,
work, and improve the same for the specific purpose of the gift, grant,
donation, devise, or bequest. These gifts, grants, donations, devises, and
bequests shall be kept separate from regular library funds and are not subject
to reversion at the end of the fiscal year; and
   I.   Exercise such other powers, not inconsistent with law, necessary for
the effective use and management of the library. (Ord. 18-20, 7-2-2018)
2-14-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The Board of Trustees shall have five (5) Trustees. Trustees shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. Four (4) Trustees
shall reside within the boundaries of the City of Whitefish and one Trustee
shall reside within the boundaries of the current School District 44. Trustees
shall receive no compensation. (Ord. 18-20, 7-2-2018)
2-14-4: TERMS OF TRUSTEES:
Trustee terms shall be for five (5) years, although initially the appointments
must be made for one, two (2), three (3), four (4), and five (5) year terms.
Annually thereafter, Trustees must be appointed before July 1 of each year, in
the same manner as the original appointments for a five (5) year term, a
Trustee to take the place of the retiring Trustee. Trustees may not serve more
than two (2) full terms in succession. (Ord. 18-20, 7-2-2018)
2-14-5: VACANCY:
Any vacancy on the Board of Trustees shall be filled for the unexpired term in
the same manner as the original appointment. (Ord. 18-20, 7-2-2018)
2-14-6: ORGANIZATION:
At its first meeting after the initial appointment of the Board of Trustees,
and thereafter at its first meeting after July 1 of each year, the Trustees
shall meet and elect a presiding officer and other officers that they consider
necessary for one-year terms. (Ord. 18-20, 7-2-2018)
CHAPTER 15
WHITEFISH COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BOARD
SECTION:
2-15-1: Standing Committee Established
2-15-2: Purpose, Powers And Duties
2-15-3: Membership
2-15-4: Terms; Positions
2-15-5: Removal Of Member
2-15-6: Vacancy
2-15-7: Organization
2-15-8: Meetings; Rules And Regulations
2-15-9: Expenditure Authorized
2-15-1: STANDING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to and under the provisions of title 76, Montana Code Annotated, the
city council of the city of Whitefish does create and establish a city
consolidated land use board to be known as the "Whitefish community development
board" consistent with state law.
(Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
2-15-2: PURPOSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
By this chapter, the city council of the city of Whitefish adopts all of the
sections of the laws of Montana aforementioned that specifically pertain to a
consolidated land use board, granting and delegating to the Whitefish community
development board all of the rights, privileges, powers, duties, and
responsibilities thereto appertaining. The Whitefish community development
board shall have such jurisdiction as provided by state law and operate as a
planning board, zoning commission, and a board of adjustment.
   A.   The community development board, when acting as a planning and zoning
commission, has the following roles:
      1.   To ensure the promotion of public health, safety, morals,
convenience, or order or the general welfare and for the sake of efficiency and
economy in the process of community development, if requested by the city
council, the community development board shall prepare a growth policy and
shall serve in an advisory capacity to the city council.
      2.   The community development board may propose policies and make
recommendations for:
         a.   Subdivision plats;
         b.   The development of public ways, public places, public structures,
and public and private utilities;
         c.   The issuance of improvement location permits on platted and
unplatted lands; or
         d.   The laying out and development of public ways and services to
platted and unplatted lands.
      3.   The community development board may recommend the boundaries of the
various zoning districts and appropriate regulations to be enforced therein.
         a.   The board will make a preliminary report and hold public hearings
thereon before submitting its final report, and the city council will not hold
its public hearings or take action until it has received the final report from
the board.
   B.   The community development board, when acting as a board of adjustment
and appeals, has the following roles:
      1.   To hear and decide applications for appeals in which it is alleged
that there is an error in an order, requirement, decision or determination made
by the zoning administrator in the enforcement of these regulations.
      2.   To hear and grant or deny any application for a variance to the
terms of the Whitefish zoning jurisdiction regulations, except where such
regulations specifically limit the power of the board.
   C.   Decisions rendered by the board on applications for appeals and
variances will be made based upon written findings of fact establishing the
reasons for each decision pursuant to the procedures for consideration
established in either section
11-7-6 of this code, being the zoning jurisdiction regulations for appeals, or
section
11-7-7 of this code, being the zoning jurisdiction regulations for variances.
For each application whereupon the board renders a decision, the city clerk
will enter a copy of the findings of fact, along with the pertinent minutes of
the board, into the public record.
   D.   The board may not by either variance or appeal process make any changes
in the uses categorically permitted in any zoning classification or zoning
district, or amend the zoning text or map.
(Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
2-15-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The Whitefish community development board shall consist of seven (7) members,
residing within the corporate limits of the city of Whitefish, to be appointed
as follows:
   A.   One member appointed by the city council from its own membership;
   B.   One member appointed by the mayor upon designation by the Flathead
County board of commissioners, who may be a member of the board of county
commissioners or an office holder or employee or resident of the county; and
   C.   Five (5) citizen members appointed by the mayor, who shall be qualified
by knowledge and experience in matters pertaining to the development of the
city.
   Board members shall receive no compensation.
(Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
2-15-4: TERMS; POSITIONS:
   Board terms shall be two (2) years. There are hereby created positions
numbered 1 through 7 inclusive of the members of the Whitefish community
development board. Members serving on the effective date of this chapter shall
be assigned to positions that correspond with the following expiration dates:
Position Number Term Expiration Date
Position Number Term Expiration Date
1               December 31, 2024
2               December 31, 2024
3               December 31, 2024
4               December 31, 2025
5               December 31, 2025
6               December 31, 2025
7               December 31, 2025
 
   As each of the above listed expiration dates has past, a member appointed to
the position shall serve for a two (2) year term. Terms shall begin on January
1 following the initial expiration of the preceding term. At the discretion of
the city council, members may be appointed for more than one term.
(Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
2-15-5: REMOVAL OF MEMBER:
   A member of the Whitefish community development board may be removed from
the board by majority vote of the city council for cause upon written charges
and after a public hearing. Willful disregard of state statutes, city
ordinances and the rules of procedure of the board, or absences from three (3)
consecutive meetings, including regular and special work sessions, or absences
from more than fifty percent (50%) of such meetings held during the calendar
year may constitute cause for removal. Circumstances of the absences will be
considered by the city council prior to removal. Any person who knows in
advance of his or her inability to attend a specific meeting shall notify the
chair or secretary of Whitefish community development board at least twenty
four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
2-15-6: VACANCY:
   Pursuant to sections
2-15-3 and
2-15-4 of this chapter, any vacancy on the Whitefish community development
board shall be filled by the city council acting in a regular or special
session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy exists. The
city council may appoint members of the city council to temporarily fill vacant
positions on the Whitefish community development board.
(Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
2-15-7: ORGANIZATION:
   Whitefish community development board, at its first meeting after January 1
of each year, shall elect a chair and vice chair for the next twelve (12) month
period. Upon the absence of the chair, the vice chair shall serve as chair pro
tem. If a vacancy occurs in the chair or vice chair position, the board shall
elect a member to fill the vacancy at the next meeting.
(Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
2-15-8: MEETINGS; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   Four (4) members of the Whitefish community development board constitute a
quorum. Not less than a quorum of the board may transact any business or
conduct any proceedings before the board. The concurring vote of a simple
majority of members of the board shall be necessary to decide any question or
matter before the board, except a motion to approve or deny a variance or
zoning appeal requires a concurring vote of four (4) members. The board must
adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of meetings consistent with statutes,
the city charter, ordinances and resolutions. Meetings of the board will be
held at the call of the chair and at such other times as the board may
determine. All meetings must be open to the public.
(Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
2-15-9: EXPENDITURE AUTHORIZED:
   Whitefish community development board shall not have authority to make any
expenditures on behalf of the city or disburse any funds provided by the city
or to obligate the city for any funds except as has been included in the city
budget and after the city council shall have authorized the expenditure by
resolution, which resolution shall provide the administrative method by which
funds shall be drawn and expended.
(Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
CHAPTER 16
WHITEFISH LAKE AND LAKESHORE PROTECTION COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-16-1: Standing Committee Established
2-16-2: Purpose, Powers And Duties
2-16-3: Membership
2-16-4: Terms; Positions
2-16-5: Removal Of Member
2-16-6: Vacancy
2-16-7: Organization
2-16-8: Meetings; Rules And Regulations
2-16-9: Expenditure Authorized
2-16-1: STANDING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to and under the provisions of Montana Code Annotated sections 75-7-
201 et seq., the city council of the city of Whitefish does create and
establish the Whitefish Lake and lakeshore protection committee as a standing
committee of the city, consistent with state law. (Ord. 15-10, 6-1-2015)
2-16-2: PURPOSE, POWERS AND DUTIES:
By this chapter, the city council of the city of Whitefish grants and delegates
to the Whitefish Lake and lakeshore protection committee all of the rights,
privileges, powers, duties, and responsibilities thereto appertaining. The
Whitefish Lake and lakeshore protection committee shall have such jurisdiction
as provided by state law. (Ord. 15-10, 6-1-2015)
2-16-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The Whitefish Lake and lakeshore protection committee shall consist of seven
(7) members, to be appointed as follows:
   A.   The Whitefish city council shall appoint a total of six (6) members,
two (2) members shall reside within the corporate limits of the city of
Whitefish, two (2) shall be lakefront property owners and residents within the
corporate limits of the city of Whitefish, and two (2) members shall reside
outside the corporate limits of the city of Whitefish and shall be lakefront
property owners.
   B.   The seventh member shall be appointed by the Whitefish planning board,
reside within the corporate limits of the city of Whitefish, and be a member of
the planning board. He/she shall serve for a two (2) year term unless he/she
requests removal or is removed by a majority vote of the planning board.
Committee members shall receive no compensation. (Ord. 15-10, 6-1-2015)
2-16-4: TERMS; POSITIONS:
Committee terms shall be two (2) years. There are hereby created positions
numbered 1 through 7 inclusive of the members of the Whitefish Lake and
lakeshore protection committee. Members serving on the effective date of this
chapter shall be assigned to positions that correspond with the following
expiration dates:
Position Number Term Expiration Date
Position Number Term Expiration Date
1               December 31, 2017
2               December 31, 2017
3               December 31, 2017
4               December 31, 2017
5               December 31, 2018
6               December 31, 2018
7               December 31, 2018
 
As each of the above listed expiration dates has passed, a member appointed to
the position shall serve for a two (2) year term. Terms shall begin on January
1 following the initial expiration of the preceding term. At the discretion of
the city council, members may be appointed for more than one term. (Ord. 15-10,
6-1-2015)
2-16-5: REMOVAL OF MEMBER:
A member of the Whitefish Lake and lakeshore protection committee may be
removed from the committee by majority vote of the city council for cause upon
written charges and after a public hearing. Wilful disregard of state statutes,
city ordinances and the rules of procedure of the committee, or absences from
three (3) consecutive meetings, including regular and special work sessions, or
absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of such meetings held during the
calendar year shall constitute cause for removal. Circumstances of the absences
shall be considered by the city council prior to removal. Any person who knows
in advance of his or her inability to attend a specific meeting shall notify
the chair or city staff member assigned to the Whitefish Lake and lakeshore
protection committee at least twenty four (24) hours prior to any scheduled
meeting. (Ord. 15-10, 6-1-2015)
2-16-6: VACANCY:
Pursuant to sections
2-16-3 and
2-16-4 of this chapter, any vacancy on the Whitefish Lake and lakeshore
protection committee shall be filled by the city council acting in a regular or
special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy
exists. The city council may appoint members of the city council to temporarily
fill vacant positions on the Whitefish Lake and lakeshore protection committee.
(Ord. 15-10, 6-1-2015)
2-16-7: ORGANIZATION:
The Whitefish Lake and lakeshore protection committee, at its first meeting
after January 1 of each year, shall elect a chair and vice chair for the next
twelve (12) month period. Upon the absence of the chair, the vice chair shall
serve as chair pro tem. If a vacancy occurs in the chair or vice chair
positions, the committee shall elect a member to fill the vacancy at the next
meeting. (Ord. 15-10, 6-1-2015)
2-16-8: MEETINGS; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Four (4) members of the Whitefish Lake and lakeshore protection committee
constitute a quorum to conduct business. Not less than a quorum of the
committee may transact any business or conduct any proceedings before the
committee. The concurring vote of four (4) members of the committee shall be
necessary to decide any question or matter before the committee, except a
motion for a continuance and motions to elect a chair and vice chair may be
decided by a simple majority vote of the committee. The committee shall adopt
rules of procedure for the conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the
city charter, ordinances and resolutions. Meetings of the committee shall be
held at the call of the chair and at such other times as the committee may
determine. All meetings shall be open to the public. (Ord. 15-10, 6-1-2015)
2-16-9: EXPENDITURE AUTHORIZED:
The Whitefish Lake and lakeshore protection committee shall not have authority
to make any expenditures on behalf of the city or disburse any funds provided
by the city or to obligate the city for any funds except as has been included
in the city budget and after the city council shall have authorized the
expenditure by resolution, which resolution shall provide the administrative
method by which funds shall be drawn and expended. (Ord. 15-10, 6-1-2015)
CHAPTER 17
WHITEFISH CLIMATE ACTION STANDING COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-17-1: Standing Committee Established
2-17-2: Purpose, Powers, And Duties
2-17-3: Membership
2-17-4: Organization
2-17-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-17-6: Staff Supervision
2-17-7: Expenditures
2-17-1: STANDING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Whitefish Climate Action Standing Committee,
hereinafter "committee". (Ord. 18-32, 10-1-2018)
2-17-2: PURPOSE, POWERS, AND DUTIES:
The purpose and duties of the committee are to assist in the implementation of
the Whitefish Climate Action Plan by establishing a working timeline for
implementation, recommending actions and budget priorities to the City Council
or City management, tracking progress towards the plan's goals, updating the
greenhouse gas inventory and updating the plan. Nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to empower the committee to authorize or prohibit the use of
public funds. (Ord. 18-32, 10-1-2018)
2-17-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee shall have nine (9) members.
Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of
the City Council. Five (5) members shall be City residents or have technical
expertise in the areas of energy use, energy conservation, and/or climate
change. One (1) member shall be a City Councilor. Three (3) members shall be
City staff members, appointed by the Directors of Public Works, Planning and
Parks and Recreation. The city clerk shall make appropriate notation of a
member’s representation category on the official committee roster. Committee
members shall receive no compensation.
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be for two (2) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 9 inclusive of the members of the
committee. The initial term of the committee members shall be staggered, with
positions 1 through 5 serving two (2) year terms, and positions 6 through 9
serving one-year terms. The initial term for members serving pursuant to this
chapter shall begin upon appointment and terminate on the date specified below
for each position:
Position Number Representation Category Initial Expiration Date
Position Number Representation Category Initial Expiration Date
1               Member at large         December 31, 2020
2               City Councilor          December 31, 2020
3               Member at large         December 31, 2020
4               City staff member       December 31, 2020
5               City staff member       December 31, 2020
6               Member at large         December 31, 2019
7               Member at large         December 31, 2019
8               City staff member       December 31, 2019
9               Member at large         December 31, 2019
 
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member may be removed from the committee by
majority vote of the City Council for cause upon written charges and after a
public hearing. Willful disregard of this chapter and the rules of procedures
of the committee, or absences from three (3) consecutive meetings, including
regular and special meetings, or absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of
such meetings held during the calendar year shall constitute cause for removal.
Circumstances of the absences shall be considered by the City Council prior to
removal. Any person who knows in advance of his or her inability to attend a
specific meeting shall notify the Chairperson or Secretary of the committee at
least twenty four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the committee shall be filled by the City Council acting in a regular or
special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy
exists. The City Council may appoint members of the City Council to temporarily
fill vacant positions on the committee. (Ord. 18-32, 10-1-2018; amd. Ord. 18-
36, 12-3-2018; Ord. 22-01, 2-7-2022)
2-17-4: ORGANIZATION:
At the committee's first meeting and the first meeting of each calendar year,
the committee shall elect a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary. If a
vacancy occurs in an officer's position, the committee shall elect a member of
the committee to fill the vacancy at the next meeting. Upon the absence of the
Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall serve as Chairperson Pro Tem. If the
Secretary is absent from a specific meeting, the attending members shall elect
a Secretary Pro Tem for the meeting. The Secretary need not be a member of the
committee and shall keep an accurate record of all committee proceedings. (Ord.
18-32, 10-1-2018)
2-17-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The majority of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a quorum
of the committee may transact any business before the committee. The concurring
vote of a simple majority of members present shall be necessary to decide any
question or matter before the committee. The committee shall adopt rules of
procedure for the conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the City
Charter, ordinances and resolutions. The committee shall meet at least
annually, and at such other times as the committee may determine. All meetings
shall be open to the public. (Ord. 18-32, 10-1-2018)
2-17-6: STAFF SUPERVISION:
The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct City staff
in the performance of their official duties. (Ord. 18-32, 10-1-2018)
2-17-7: EXPENDITURES:
The committee shall not have authority to make any expenditures on behalf of
the City or disburse any funds provided by the City or to obligate the City for
any funds. (Ord. 18-32, 10-1-2018)
CHAPTER 18
SUSTAINABLE TOURISM MANAGEMENT PLAN STANDING COMMITTEE
Section:
2-18-1: Standing Committee Established
2-18-2: Purpose, Powers, And Duties
2-18-3: Membership
2-18-4: Organization
2-18-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-18-6: Staff Supervision
2-18-7: Expenditures
2-18-1: STANDING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Whitefish Sustainable Tourism Management Plan
Standing Committee, hereinafter "committee." (Ord. 22-16, 12-5-2022)
2-18-2: PURPOSE, POWERS, AND DUTIES:
The purpose and duties of the committee are to assist in the implementation of
the Whitefish Sustainable Tourism Management Plan by establishing a working
timeline for implementation, recommending actions and budget priorities to the
City Council or City management, tracking progress towards the Plan's goals,
updating the data collection and benchmarking, priorities and the short-term
work plan. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to empower the committee
to authorize or prohibit the use of public funds. (Ord. 22-16, 12-5-2022)
2-18-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: The committee shall have nine (9) members.
Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of
the City Council. Four (4) members-at-large (must be a city resident with
experience in, knowledge of, or perspective on tourism and its relationship to
the Whitefish community). Two (2) members may reside outside the City of
Whitefish, as long as the member resides in Flathead County and has an
ownership interest in or a managerial position at a business located and
operating within the corporate limits of Whitefish. One (1) member from
Whitefish Mountain Resort. One (1) member from the Whitefish Convention and
Visitors Bureau. One (1) member from City staff or City Council representative.
The city clerk shall make appropriate notation of a member's representation
category on the official committee roster. Committee members shall receive no
compensation.
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be for two (2) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 9 inclusive of the members of the
committee. The initial term of the committee members shall be staggered, with
positions 1 through 5 serving two (2) year terms, and positions 6 through 9
serving one-year terms. The initial term for members serving pursuant to this
chapter shall begin upon appointment and terminate on the date specified below
for each position:
Position Number Representation Category Initial Expiration Date
Position Number Representation Category           Initial Expiration Date
1               Member at Large Owner/Manager     December 31, 2024
2               City Staff Member or City Council December 31, 2024
                Representative
3               Member at Large                   December 31, 2024
4               Whitefish CVB                     December 31, 2024
5               Member at large                   December 31, 2024
6               Whitefish Mountain Resort         December 31, 2023
7               Member at Large Owner/Manager     December 31, 2023
8               Member at Large                   December 31, 2023
9               Member at Large                   December 31, 2023
 
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member may be removed from the committee by
majority vote of the city council for cause upon written charges and after a
public hearing. Willful disregard of this chapter and the rules of procedures
of the committee, or absences from three (3) consecutive meetings, including
regular and special meetings, or absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of
such meetings held during the calendar year shall constitute cause for removal.
Circumstances of the absences shall be considered by the city council prior to
removal. Any person who knows in advance of his or her inability to attend a
specific meeting shall notify the chairperson or secretary of the committee at
least twenty-four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the committee shall be filled by the city council acting in a regular or
special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy
exists. The city council may appoint members of the city council to temporarily
fill vacant positions on the committee. (Ord. 22-16, 12-5-2022)
2-18-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   At the committee's first meeting and the first meeting of each calendar
year, the committee shall elect a chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary.
If a vacancy occurs in an officer's position, the committee shall elect a
member of the committee to fill the vacancy at the next meeting. Upon the
absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall serve as Chairperson Pro
Tem. If the secretary is absent from a specific meeting, the attending members
shall elect a Secretary Pro Tem for the meeting. The secretary need not be a
member of the committee and shall keep an accurate record of all committee
proceedings.
   B.   The committee shall meet quarterly or more often as needed. (Ord. 22-
16, 12-5-2022)
2-18-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The majority of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a quorum
of the committee may transact any business before the committee. The concurring
vote of a simple majority of members present shall be necessary to decide any
question or matter before the committee. The committee shall adopt rules of
procedure for the conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the city
charter, ordinances and resolutions. The committee shall meet at least
annually, and at such other times as the committee may determine. All meetings
shall be open to the public. (Ord. 22-16, 12-5-2022)
2-18-6: STAFF SUPERVISION:
The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct city staff
in the performance of their official duties. (Ord. 22-16, 12-5-2022)
2-18-7: EXPENDITURES:
The committee shall not have authority to make any expenditures on behalf of
the city or disburse any funds provided by the city or to obligate the city for
any funds. (Ord. 22-16, 12-5-2022)
CHAPTER 19
WHITEFISH COMMUNITY HOUSING COMMITTEE
Section:
2-19-1: Standing Committee Established
2-19-2: Purpose, Powers, And Duties
2-19-3: Membership
2-19-4: Organization
2-19-5: Meetings, Rules And Regulations
2-19-6: Staff Supervision
2-19-7: Expenditures
2-19-1: STANDING COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
   There is hereby established as a standing committee the Whitefish Community
Housing Committee, hereinafter referred to as "committee."
(Ord. 23-24, 11-6-2023)
2-19-2: PURPOSE, POWERS, AND DUTIES:
   The purpose and duties of the committee are to assist in the implementation
of the housing strategies identified in the most recently adopted housing plan,
to liaison with the Housing Coordinator, and recommend actions and budget
priorities to the city council or city management. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to empower the committee to authorize or prohibit the use of
public funds.
(Ord. 23-24, 11-6-2023)
2-19-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Appointment; Compensation: Members of the committee shall be appointed
by the Mayor with consent of the city council. Committee members shall receive
no compensation. The Committee shall have nine (9) members. One (1) member
shall be the Mayor or a member of the city council; one (1) representative of
the Whitefish Housing Authority; one (1) representative of Housing Whitefish;
one (1) representative of the Whitefish Chamber of Commerce; one (1)
representative of the Whitefish Convention and Visitors Bureau; one (1) member
of the public with relevant professional or personal expertise in real estate
development; one (1) member of the public with relevant professional or
personal expertise in fundraising or financing; and two (2) members of the
public with relevant professional or personal expertise in housing policy,
property management, housing programs, end-users of community housing programs,
or housing advocacy. The city clerk shall make appropriate notation of a
member's representation category on the official committee roster. Committee
members shall receive no compensation.
   B.   Terms; Positions: Committee terms shall be for two (2) years. There are
hereby created positions numbered 1 through 9 includes of the members of the
committee. The initial term of the committee members shall be staggered, with
positions 1 through 5 serving two (2) year terms, and positions 6 through 9
serving one-year terms. The initial term for members serving pursuant to this
chapter shall being upon appointment and terminate on the date specified below
for each position:
Position Number Representation Category Initial Expiration Date
Position Number Representation Category                Initial Expiration Date
1               Mayor or City Council Representative   December 31, 2025
2               Whitefish Housing Authority            December 31, 2025
                Representative
3               Housing Whitefish Representative       December 31, 2025
4               Member at Large                        December 31, 2025
                Real Estate Development
                Member at Large
5               Housing policy, advocacy, program,     December 31, 2025
                property management or end-user
6               Member at Large                        December 31, 2024
                Fundraising or Finance
                Member at Large
7               Housing policy, advocacy, program,     December 31, 2024
                property management or end-user
8               Whitefish Chamber of Commerce          December 31, 2024
                Representative
9               Representative                         December 31, 2024
                Whitefish Convention & Visitors Bureau
 
   C.   Removal Of Member: A member of the committee may be removed by majority
vote of the City Council for cause upon written charges and after a public
hearing. Willful disregard of this chapter and the rules of procedures of the
committee, or absences from three (3) consecutive meetings, including regular
and special meetings, or absences from more than fifty percent (50%) of such
meetings held during the calendar year shall constitute grounds for removal.
The circumstances of the absences shall be considered by the City Council prior
to removal. Any person who knows in advance of their inability to attend a
specific meeting shall notify the chair or secretary of the committee at least
twenty-four (24) hours prior to any scheduled meeting.
   D.   Vacancy: Pursuant to subsections A and B of this section, any vacancy
on the committee shall be filled by the city council acting in a regular or
special session for the unexpired term of the position wherein the vacancy
exists. The city council may appoint members to the city council to temporarily
fill vacant positions on the committee.
(Ord. 23-24, 11-6-2023)
2-19-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   At the committee's first meeting and the first meeting of each calendar
year, the committee shall elect a chair, vice chair and secretary. If a vacancy
occurs in an officer's position, the committee shall elect a member of the
committee to fill the vacancy at the next meeting. Upon the absence of the
Chair, the Vice Chair shall serve as Chair Pro Tem. If the secretary is absent
from a specific meeting, the attending members shall elect a Secretary Pro Tem
for the meeting. The secretary need not be a member of the committee and shall
keep an accurate record of all committee proceedings.
   B.   The committee shall meet monthly or more often as needed.
(Ord. 23-24, 11-6-2023)
2-19-5: MEETINGS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   The majority of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Not less than a
quorum of the committee may transact any business before the committee. The
concurring vote of a simple majority of members present shall be necessary to
decide any question or matter before the committee. The committee shall adopt
rules of procedure for the conduct of meetings consistent with statutes, the
city charter, ordinances, and resolutions. The committee shall meet at least
annually, and at such other times as the committee may determine. All meetings
shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 23-24, 11-6-2023)
2-19-6: STAFF SUPERVISION:
   The committee shall have no supervisory control and shall not direct city
staff in the performance of their official duties. The committee may request
information and assistance from city staff.
(Ord. 23-24, 11-6-2023)
2-19-7: EXPENDITURES:
   The committee shall not have authority to make any expenditures on behalf of
the city or disburse any funds provided by the city or to obligate the city for
any funds.
(Ord. 23-24, 11-6-2023)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGISTRATION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Construction
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Registration Required
3-1-4:    Registration Exemption
3-1-5: Registration Fees
3-1-6: Business Registration Application
3-1-7:    Conditions
3-1-8: Fine Or Penalty
3-1-1: CONSTRUCTION:
   Business registration promotes public safety through the provision of
emergency contact information, regularly scheduled fire inspections, and
confirmation of liability insurance, if applicable. Business registration also
assists the city to ensure compliance with other regulations and ordinances. No
provision contained in this chapter will be construed so as to license any
trade, business, occupation, vocation, pursuit, profession or entertainment
prohibited by the constitution or laws of the United States, or the
constitution of the state of Montana.
(Ord. A-420, 11-1-1982; amd. Ord. 23-29, 11-20-2023)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the words set out in this section shall have
the following meanings:
   CONTRACTOR: A person or business that builds, repairs, or installs materials
or devices on new or existing commercial and residential property in the city.
   GENERAL BUSINESS: All businesses and professions requiring registration
other than those registered as a contractor, home occupation or short-term
rental.
   HOME OCCUPATION: All businesses or offices operated out of home and defined
in section
11-9-2 of this code.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL: All businesses renting an entire furnished privately
owned house, townhouse unit, condominium unit, apartment or other residence, or
any space within a dwelling unit rented independently, for stays of less than
thirty (30) days to transient guests or tourists.
(Ord. A-420, 11-1-1982; amd. Ord. 23-29, 11-20-2023)
3-1-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   No contractor, general business, home occupation, or short-term rental will
conduct, operate, transact, or engage in business of any kind within the city
before first registering with the city. Failure to register a business prior to
operating a business in the corporate limits of the city constitutes a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-18, 12-6-2010; amd. Ord. 23-29, 11-20-2023)
3-1-4: REGISTRATION EXEMPTION:
   Licensed professionals by the State of Montana, including but not limited to
physicians, chiropractors, nail technicians, attorneys, real estate agents,
certified public accountants, and insurance professionals are exempt from
business registration.
(Ord. 23-29, 11-20-2023)
3-1-5: REGISTRATION FEES:
   A.   Fee Schedule: The city council, by resolution, will adopt a business
registration fee schedule which will apply to all businesses, persons or
entities which the city registers.
   B.   Collection: The city manager will be charged with the collection of the
fees required by this chapter through the appropriate city official designated
by the city manager.
   C.   Classification: When there is any doubt about the classification of the
fee to be paid under this chapter, the matter will be referred to the city
manager.
   D.   Payment Of Fees: Except as otherwise provided herein, all registration
fees will be payable annually in advance and on or before January 1. Any
registration issued after July 1 of each year will be issued at one-half (1/2)
the yearly fee. All registrations will expire on December 31 of each year.
   E.   Late Fee: On late renewal, a late fee, as established by resolution of
the city council, plus two percent (2%) of the registration fee per month or
any portion thereof, will be assessed. This penalty must be paid prior to the
issuance of a renewal registration.
(Ord. A-420, 11-1-1982; amd. Ord. 23-29, 11-20-2023)
3-1-6: BUSINESS REGISTRATION APPLICATION:
   Applications for business registration must be obtained from and filed with
the city. All applications, when filed, must be accompanied with the necessary
fees and signed by the applicant. The form of the application will be
determined by the city manager.
(Ord. 10-18, 12-6-2010; amd. Ord. 23-29, 11-20-2023)
3-1-7 CONDITIONS:
   A.   Display Of Registration: The proof of city registration, issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, must be conspicuously displayed in
such a manner that a city official may observe the same upon entering the place
of business.
   B.   Subject To Regulations: Every person registered under the provisions of
this chapter is subject to regulation, inspection, control and supervision
under the general police power of the city and of all of the provisions of this
code and ordinances of the city now in force, or which may hereafter be
adopted, in aid of such police power and regulation.
   C.   Separate Registration For Each Business And Location: Except as
otherwise provided, a separate registration must be procured and fee paid when
registration is required by the provisions of this chapter, for each business
and business location.
   D.   Contractors must provide proof of general liability insurance with per
occurrence limits of at least three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) at
time of application and renewal for business registrations. Contractors with
paid employees, excluding state licensed electricians and plumbers, must also
submit a copy of the State of Montana Department of Labor and Industry
Certificate of Contractor Registration.
   E.   All businesses with a physical location in the city are subject to fire
safety inspections by the city's Fire Marshall. Frequency of fire inspections
depend on the type of business in accordance with city ordinance, State Law,
and the program established by the Whitefish Fire Department.
(Ord. 10-18, 12-6-2010; amd. Ord. 23-29, 11-20-2023)
3-1-8: FINE OR PENALTY:
   Every person who willfully violates or who procures, aids or abets in the
willful violation of this chapter or any regulation adopted pursuant thereto,
will be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, will be punished
as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every person who willfully violates or who procures, aids
or abets in the willful violation of this chapter or any regulation adopted
pursuant thereto, will be deemed to have committed a municipal infraction, and
will be assessed the civil penalty described in section
1-4-4 of this code. Each day that a violation remains will constitute a
separate violation. For each separate incident, the city will elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 23-29, 11-20-2023)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE A. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2A-1: License Requirements
3-2A-2: Conditions Of License
3-2A-1: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: Under and by virtue of the power and authority vested
in the city, by provisions of the laws of the state, it is hereby ordained that
no person, firm, association or corporation shall, after the passage and
adoption of this article, run, operate or conduct within the city the business
of the selling of intoxicating liquor at retail, without first applying for and
obtaining a license therefor from the city as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Application For License: All persons desiring to procure a license to
sell liquor at retail within the corporate limits of the city shall file with
the city clerk, application for such license, showing the names of the person
or persons applying for such license, the location of the place of business
where such liquor is to be sold and shall give the date and number of the
retail liquor license issued to such applicant by the Montana liquor control
board.
   C.   Issuance Of License: No license for the sale of intoxicating liquor at
retail shall be issued by the city until the applicant has first obtained from
the state liquor control board a license authorizing such applicant to engage
in the business of selling liquor at retail, and license to sell liquor in the
city shall be issued only to those applicants whom the city council, after due
investigation, deem suitable and proper applicants to be permitted to engage in
said business in the city. (Ord. A-3, 2-16-1944)
   D.   License Fee: Each applicant for license to engage in the business of
selling liquor at retail under the provisions of this article shall, after such
application for license is approved and before the license is issued, pay to
the city an annual license fee which shall be established by resolution of the
city council from time to time. Said annual license shall become effective on
July 1 and at the same date each year thereafter, and all such licenses shall
expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on June 30 of the succeeding year.
(Ord. A-3, 2-16-1944; amd. Ord. A-263, 7-7-1975)
3-2A-2: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Nontransferable: Every license issued under the provisions of this
chapter is separate and distinct and no person except the licensee therein
named shall exercise any of the privileges granted thereunder, and all licenses
are applicable only to the premises in respect to which they are issued. (Ord.
A-3, 2-16-1944)
   B.   Hours Of Operation: All licensed establishments wherein liquor, beer
and wine, as defined by the laws of the state, are sold, offered for sale or
given away at retail shall be closed during the following hours:
 
Each and every day 2:00 A.M. to 8:00 A.M.
 
During the hours when the licensed establishment where liquor, beer and wine
are sold at retail is required by this subsection to be closed, it is unlawful
to sell, offer for sale or give away any liquor, beer and wine, and during such
hours all persons, save employees of such licensed establishment, shall be
excluded therefrom; provided, however, that when a licensed establishment is
operated in conjunction with a hotel, restaurant, bus depot, railway terminal
or other lawful business other than that of the sale of liquor, beer and wine,
then such other lawful business need not be closed, but only the part thereof
where such liquor, beer and wine is sold. (Ord. A-3, 2-16-1944; amd. Ord. A-
105, 3-7-1960; Ord. A-256, 11-4-1974; Ord. A-261, 7-7-1975)
ARTICLE B. BEER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Definitions
3-2B-2: License Requirements
3-2B-3: Conditions Of License
3-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
BEER: A malt beverage containing not more than seven percent (7%) of alcohol by
weight 1 . (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA § 16-1-106.
3-2B-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: All persons duly licensed to sell, dispense or
dispose of beer, wine or other similar fermented beverages under the laws of
the state, within the city, shall pay a license fee to the city and be
regulated by the police powers of the city as hereinafter provided. (Ord. A-2,
2-16-1944; amd. Ord. A-252, 6-3-1974)
   B.   License Fees:
      1.   Beer: All persons duly licensed to sell, dispense or dispose of beer
in the city shall pay an annual license fee to the city as shall be established
by the city council by resolution from time to time. Said annual license shall
become effective on July 1 and at the same date each year thereafter, and all
such licenses shall expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on June 30 of the
succeeding year.
      2.   Wine: All parties holding a license from the state to sell wine in
addition to beer and who dispense or dispose of wine in addition to beer in the
city, shall pay a license fee to the city, in addition to the fee required for
a beer license, as shall be established by the city council by resolution from
time to time. (Ord. A-2, 2-16-1944; amd. Ord. A-211, 2-20-1973; Ord. A-252, 6-
3-1974)
3-2B-3: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE 2 :
   A.   License Nontransferable: Every license issued under the provisions of
this article is separate and distinct, and no person except the licensee
therein named shall exercise any of the privileges granted hereunder. All
licenses are applicable only to the premises in respect to which they are
issued. (Ord. A-2, 2-16-1944)
   B.   Distance Requirement For Cabaret License: With respect to restaurant
beer and wine cabaret licenses, as authorized by Montana code 16-4-420 through
16-4-423 only, the city supplants the provisions of Montana code 16-3-306(1) by
entirely eliminating any distance requirement between a restaurant beer and
wine cabaret licensee and a church, synagogue, other place of worship or a
school, so long as such licensee is located within the WB-3 general business
zoning district. (Ord. 97-5, 11-3-1997)
 
Notes
2 2. See subsection
  3-2A-2B of this title for closing hours.
CHAPTER 3
RESORT TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Resort Tax Imposed
3-3-3: Luxuries Tax
3-3-4: Exemptions To Tax
3-3-5: Payment Of Tax
3-3-6: Records And Tax Forms
3-3-7: Audits
3-3-8: Use Of Tax Monies
3-3-9: Property Tax Relief Fund
3-3-10: Questions And Interpretation
3-3-11: Appeals
3-3-12: Violation; Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
LUXURIES, MEDICAL SUPPLIES AND MEDICINE: Defined as set forth in Montana code
7-6-1501, and further in section
3-3-3 of this chapter.
RESORT TAX AND TAX: The resort tax passed by the electorate of the city and as
enacted by this chapter. (Ord. 95-15, 12-18-1995)
3-3-2: RESORT TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Tax Imposed: Pursuant to the elections held on November 7, 1995,
November 2, 2004, April 28, 2015, November 2, 2021, and November 7, 2023, a
resort tax is imposed on the retail value of all goods and services sold,
except for goods and services sold for resale, within the city by the following
establishments:
      1.   Hotels, motels and other lodging or camping facilities;
      2.   Restaurants, fast food stores and other food service establishments;
      3.   Taverns, bars, nightclubs, lounges and other public establishments
that serve beer, wine, liquor or other alcoholic beverages by the drink;
      4.   Destination ski resorts and other destination recreational
facilities;
      5.   Establishments that sell luxuries.
   B.   Rate Of Tax:
      1.   The rate of the resort tax is three percent (3%).
      2.   The duration of the resort tax is forty-nine (49) years from its
effective date, February 1, 1996, and will expire January 31, 2045.
   C.   Duty To Collect: It is the duty of each operator of any of the
establishments mentioned in this chapter to collect, upon sale, resort tax.
(Ord. 15-08, 5-18-2015, eff. 7-1-2015; amd. Ord. 24-12, 11-18-2024)
3-3-3: LUXURIES TAX:
Each business subject to the tax shall collect the same on the retail value of
all goods and services sold, except goods and services sold for resale, within
the city by the establishments set forth in subsection
3-3-2 A of this chapter. All luxuries shall be taxed, and "luxuries" shall mean
any gift item, luxury item, or other item normally sold to the public or to
transient visitors or tourists; but the term does not include food purchased
unprepared or unserved, medicine, medical supplies and services, appliances,
hardware supplies and tools or any necessities of life. The term luxuries
includes, but is not limited to:
Destination Ski Resorts And Other Destination Recreational Facilities:
   All goods and services
   Ski lift tickets and packages
Hotels, Motels And Other Lodging Or Camping Facilities:
   All goods and services sold
   Conference, convention or event room or space rentals
   Lodging based on rental periods of less than thirty (30) days
   Lodging for which the state bed tax is payable:
      Bed and breakfasts
      Campgrounds and RV parks
      Condominium rentals
      Hotels and motels
      Short-term vacation rentals
Luxuries:
   Attractions:
      Arcades
      Bowling alleys
      Concerts
      Golf courses:
         Cart rentals
         Cart storage fees
         Green fees
         Membership fees and assessments
         Merchandise sales
      Movie and live theaters
      Rodeos
   Rentals:
      Automobiles, trucks, trailers, RVs, etc.
      Conference, convention or event room or space rentals
      Golf, ski, water and fishing sports equipment
      Motorcycles, bicycles, ATVs, etc.
      Movie videos and games
      Snowmobiles, boats, jet skis, etc.
   Retail sales of goods (excluding sales for resale) of:
      Books, including used books other than as sold at garage sales
      Belts
      Cameras and supplies
      Candles
      Clothing
      Curios, decorative boxes, decorative vases
      Cut flowers and floral arrangements, both living and nonliving
      Fake trees and plants
      Finished craft items, including those sold at arts and crafts fairs,
other than those that are household furnishings
      Fireworks
      Gifts, gift tags, gift boxes, and wrapping paper
      Jewelry and art including decorative dishes and dishwares not used for
meals
      Mail order and catalog sales
      Motorcycles, snowmobiles, boats, jet skis, etc.
      Pets and pet supplies
      Pictures and picture frames, posters, prints, handcrafted cards
      Purses or coin purses
      Records, tapes, CDs, videos, DVDs
      Recreational cannabis (marijuana)
      Secondhand stores and antiques
      Souvenir, imprinted and gift items
      Spas, hot tubs, and related accessories
      Sporting goods including sold as used or on consignment, except when sold
at a garage sale:
         Bicycles except stationary fitness or exercise bicycles
      Supermarket nonfood items:
         Batteries and film
         Magazines and greeting cards including boxes of cards
         Makeup and makeup bags, lint brushes, cosmetics, tanning lotions
         Perfume, cologne
         Tobacco and tobacco products; matches, lighters, lighter fluid
         Toys
   Services:
      Guides and outfitters:
         Hunting, fishing, rafting, horseback rides, etc.
      Recreational services and labor
Restaurants, Fast Food, Caterers, And Other Food Service Establishments:
   All goods and services sold, including delivery charges, but not tips
   Chips, nuts, and seeds, granola bars, jerky
   Foodstuffs intended for immediate human consumption
   Fraternal organizations which provide food and beverages or rent their
facilities to the public and nonmembers
   Soda pop, gum and candy, including individual, bulk, and packaged candy
quantities
   Vending machines
Taverns, Bars, Nightclubs, Lounges, Caterers, And Other Public Establishments
Serving Beer, Wine, Liquor Or Other Alcoholic Beverages By The Drink:
   All alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine, sold by the drink or at
retail
   All goods and services sold
   Private liquor stores
   (Ord. 11-13, 7-18-2011; amd. Ord. 24-12, 11-18-2024)
3-3-4: EXEMPTIONS TO TAX:
Notwithstanding section
3-3-3  of this chapter, sale or rental of the following goods and services
shall be exempt from the tax:
Appliances:
   Computers and computer supplies including webcams
   Electronic communication and entertainment devices
   Kitchen counter devices (mixers, toasters, etc.)
   Spas, hot tubs, and related accessories required by prescription or at the
advice of a doctor
   Stoves, refrigerators, freezers, washers, dryers, dishwashers, trash
compactors
   Telephone equipment
   Vacuum cleaners
Food Purchased Unprepared Or Unserved:
   Food items eligible for purchase with food stamps (except soda pop or candy)
   Food items not purchased for immediate consumption; including a loaf of
bread, noncarbonated drinks, fitness drinks for later consumption
   Vitamins
Hardware Supplies And Tools:
   Implements and supplies used in the construction, improvement, maintenance
or repair of buildings and their furnishings
   Lawn and garden equipment and supplies
Hotels, Motels And Other Lodging Or Camping Facilities:
   Lodging based on rental periods in excess of thirty (30) days
Medicine, Medical Supplies And Services:
   Doctors, dentists, chiropractors, opticians
   Medical supplies, items sold to be used for curative, prosthetic or medical
maintenance purposes including exercise or fitness bicycles, fitness balls
   Medicine, substances sold for curative or remedial properties, including
nonprescription drugs and medical cannabis (marijuana)
   Psychologists, counselors, social workers
   Therapeutic massage
Necessities Of Life:
   Funeral Homes
   Supermarket nonfood items:
      Baby and child care products:
         Disposable diapers, powder, lotion, nursing bras, etc.
      Cleaning supplies
      Deodorant
      Laundry detergent and bleach
      Livestock feed and pet food
      Livestock and pet medicine
      Paper products
      Personal hygiene:
         Combs, brushes, sunblock, lip balm
         Dietary supplements
         Feminine hygiene: Sanitary pads and liners, tampons, feminine wipes,
and cleansers
         Soap and shampoo, lotions
         Toilet paper
         Toothpaste and mouthwash
         Vitamins
   Utilities:
      Cable television
      Electric
      Internet
      Water and Sewer
      Garbage and Recycling
      Telecommunications
      Natural gas, propane, and heating oil
Other Items And Services:
   Auto mechanical parts
   Automotive accessories
   Building contractors and tradesmen:
      Plumbers, electricians, carpenters, roofers, drywallers, painters,
masons, pest control, paving, excavating, HVAC, well drillers
   Charcoal
   Contractor and homeowner equipment including vacuums and floor cleaners
   Craft items and supplies including posterboard
   Dishes and dishwares used for meals or cooking
   Furniture and home furnishings including lawn and patio furniture and used
furniture
   Gambling revenues
   Gasoline
   Gold and silver bullion
   Housewares and sundries
   Lawn, garden and landscaping supplies including flower plants with roots,
compost
   Light bulbs
   Motor oil
   New and used car and truck sales
   Newspapers
   School supplies
   Stationery and office supplies
   Street legal motorcycles
   Tires
   Nonprofit and charitable events:
      Fraternal organizations which provide food and services only to members
      Nonprofit fundraisers
      School sports events
   Other business and professional services:
      Amtrak
      Appliance repair
      Auto repair and related services
      Bank charges and interest
      Car wash, towing
      Hair salons, barbers, and estheticians, excluding taxable retail sales
      Health clubs and personal trainers
      House cleaning and janitorial services
      Insurance agents:
         Health, life, auto, bonds
      Interior decorators
      Landscaping, snow removal and lawn care
      Laundry, drycleaning and laundromats
      Movers and ministorage units
      Photo developing
      Preschools and childcare
      Printers and publishers
      Professional services:
         Lawyers, architects, accountants, appraisers, engineers, tax services,
surveyors
      Real estate commissions
      School bus services
      Security brokers and financial managers
      Shipping agents (UPS)
      Taxidermist
      Taxis
      Travel agent fees
      Upholstery shops
      Veterinarians
   Safe deposit boxes
   Wholesale merchandise purchased for resale at retail
   (Ord. 11-13, 7-18-2011; amd. Ord. 24-12, 11-18-2024)
3-3-5: PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   Remittance:
      1.   The taxes collected by businesses in any month are to be remitted to
the city on or before the twentieth day of the following month, or if such day
falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, on the next business day.
      2.   For good cause shown in a written request of a taxpayer who would
pay less than five dollars ($5.00) a month, the city manager may extend the
time for making returns and paying tax due. (Ord. 11-01, 2-22-2011)
   B.   Collection Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   The officer responsible for receiving and accounting for the resort
tax receipts is the finance director, or designee.
      2.   The city manager and designated agents shall be responsible for
enforcing the collection of the resort tax and shall be responsible for
overseeing the methods and procedures to be used in enforcing the collection of
the resort tax. The city manager or designated agents shall be entitled to use
all lawful methods and procedures in enforcing the collection of resort taxes,
including, but not limited to, audits performed by a public accounting firm or
city staff, correspondence demanding prompt payment, civil suits, and
initiating criminal prosecution.
   C.   Administrative Fee: Each collecting merchant shall be entitled to
withhold five percent (5%) of the resort tax collected to defray its cost for
the administration of the tax collection. The administration fee may be
withheld by the business at the time of remitting the tax to the city. Failure
to withhold the fee shall constitute the waiver and forfeiture of the same.
(Ord. 95-15, 12-18-1995; amd. Ord. 24-12, 11-18-2024)
3-3-6: RECORDS AND TAX FORMS:
   A.   Forms; Confidentiality: Remittance to the city of the resort tax shall
be tabulated and accounted for on forms prescribed and furnished to the
business by the city. The records and forms held by the city shall be
confidential, and shall not be open to inspection by the public unless so
ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Preservation Of Records: Every business required to collect and remit
the resort tax shall keep and preserve for a period of not less than three (3)
years all records necessary to determine the verity of the taxes remitted and
shall make the same available for audit or inspection at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 95-15, 12-18-1995; amd. Ord. 24-12, 11-18-2024)
3-3-7: AUDITS:
Periodic random audits shall be conducted under the direction of the city
manager or designee and all business operators shall cooperate in all respects
in the conduct of the audits. Failure to cooperate shall constitute a violation
of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 95-15, 12-18-1995; amd. Ord. 24-12,
11-18-2024)
3-3-8: USE OF TAX MONIES:
Effective February 1, 2025, the tax monies derived from the resort tax may be
appropriated by the city council only for those activities, in those
proportions set forth below:
   A.   Property tax reduction for taxpayers in an amount equal to twenty five
percent (25%) of the three percent (3%) resort tax revenues derived during the
preceding fiscal year;
   B.   Provision for the repair, maintenance, and improvement of streets,
including storm sewers, all underground utilities, sidewalks, curbs and
gutters, in an amount equal to forty eight percent (48%) of the three percent
(3%) resort tax revenues derived during the preceding fiscal year;
   C.   Community housing initiatives, including the development of deed
restricted affordable housing units and community housing programs in an amount
equal to ten percent (10%) of the three percent (3%) resort tax revenues
derived the preceding fiscal year;
   D.   Improvements and maintenance of bicycle and pedestrian paths and other
park acquisitions, capital improvements, and equipment in an amount equal to
ten percent (10%) of the three percent (3%) resort tax derived during the
preceding fiscal year;
   E.   Maintenance and replacement of existing improvements of the Whitefish
Trail with any amounts not expended within five (5) fiscal years available for
the maintenance of city bicycle and pedestrian paths in an amount equal to two
percent (2%) of the three percent (3%) resort tax revenues derived during the
preceding fiscal year;
   F.   Merchant’s cost of administering the resort tax in an amount equal to
five percent (5%) of the three percent (3%) resort tax per year (as provided in
subsection 3-3-5C of this chapter). (Ord. 24-12, 11-18-2024)
3-3-9: PROPERTY TAX RELIEF FUND:
In the event the city receives more resort tax revenues than had been included
in the annual municipal budget, it shall establish a municipal property tax
relief fund, and all resort tax revenues received in excess of the budget
amount must be placed in the fund. The entire fund must be used to replace
municipal property taxes in the following fiscal year. (Ord. 95-15, 12-18-1995;
amd. Ord. 24-12, 11-18-2024)
3-3-10: QUESTIONS AND INTERPRETATION:
The city manager and designated agents shall be responsible for answering
questions regarding those goods and services that are subject to the resort
tax, and for interpreting the terms of this chapter. In order to provide
consistency, the city manager and designated agents shall maintain a written
file of all answers provided and interpretations rendered. The city manager may
seek advice and/or guidance from the city attorney or the city council. (Ord.
95-15, 12-18-1995; amd. Ord. 24-12, 11-18-2024)
3-3-11: APPEALS:
Any business may appeal to the city council any assessment of penalty or
interest if notice of appeal in writing is filed with the city clerk within
thirty (30) days of the serving or mailing of the determination of the amount
of penalty and interest due. The city council shall, at the next regular city
council meeting, fix the time and place for hearing the appeal and the city
clerk shall cause notice in writing to be personally served by a peace officer
upon the operator. The findings and decision of the city council shall be final
and conclusive and shall be served upon the appellant by certified mail
directed to the business operator's last known address. Any amount found to be
due shall be immediately payable upon service of the findings and decision.
(Ord. 95-15, 12-18-1995; amd. Ord. 24-12, 11-18-2024)
3-3-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
For the failure to report taxes due, failure to remit taxes due and other
violations of this chapter, the following penalties may be imposed:
   A.   A criminal penalty not to exceed a fine of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or six (6) months' imprisonment, or both;
   B.   The city may collect civil penalties if it prevails in a suit for the
collection of resort taxes, not to exceed fifty percent (50%) of the resort
taxes found due plus the costs (including any audit fees) and attorney fees
incurred by the city in the action;
   C.   A civil penalty imposed pursuant to section
1-4-4  of this code;
   D.   Delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%)
per annum;
   E.   Failure To Report/Remit: A business that fails to report or fails to
remit resort taxes when due will be granted a thirty (30) day grace period from
the due date. If the thirty (30) day grace period expires and the business
fails to report or remit payment due, a late fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) will
be imposed in addition to interest identified in section
3-3-12 (D) above. For continued failures to report or remit resort tax, a late
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per additional thirty (30) days period,
will be imposed in addition to interest identified in section
3-3-12 (D) above.
For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat the violation as
either a misdemeanor pursuant to subsection A of this section, a suit for civil
penalties pursuant to subsection B of this section, or a municipal infraction,
pursuant to subsection C of this section. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord.
24-12, 11-18-2024)
CHAPTER 4
SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definition
3-4-2: Conditions Of License
3-4-3: License Revocation
3-4-1: DEFINITION:
Every person who engages in the business of buying, selling or dealing in
secondhand furniture, secondhand household goods and secondhand kitchen
hardware and cooking utensils shall be deemed the keeper of a secondhand store.
(Ord. 156, 1-17-1921)
3-4-2: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Register Required: Every person who carries on the business of a
secondhand store shall keep a register, which shall be a substantial, well-
bound book, at his place of business, in which shall be entered in legible
writing and in ink each day, and at the time of each purchase, a minute
description of each and every article purchased or received, the precise time
of such purchase or receipt, the name and residence of each person from whom
such property is purchased or received, together with a description, giving
age, weight, complexion, color of hair, height and style of dress; and such
register shall at all times be open to the inspection of any member of the
police force of the city.
   B.   Minors: No person carrying on such a business shall purchase or receive
any article or thing from a minor without the written consent of the parent or
guardian of any minor. (Ord. 156, 1-17-1921)
3-4-3: LICENSE REVOCATION:
The city council shall revoke the license of any secondhand store or dealer,
who has been convicted of a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 156, 1-17-1921)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisance Declared
4-1-2: Specific Nuisances Enumerated
4-1-3: Abatement Of Nuisances
4-1-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
It is a public nuisance to cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any
offal, filth or noisome substance to be collected or to remain in any place in
the city to the prejudice of others. (Ord. A-205, 2-20-1973)
4-1-2: SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   Nuisances Relating To Premises:
      1.   Offensive Matter: It is a public nuisance for any owner, lessee,
occupant or resident of any premises to suffer or cause to be maintained on
such premises, for twenty four (24) hours or longer, any unwholesome, delaying
or putrid animal or vegetable matter which contaminates the atmosphere or
endangers or injures the health of any person, or which is indecent or
offensive to the senses, or interferes with the comfort or enjoyment of any
resident in the city.
      2.   Offensive Liquids: It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit
any nauseous, foul or putrid liquid or other liquid substance to be discharged,
placed or thrown, or to flow from or out of any premises into or upon any
adjacent premises, or any public street, alley, road or sidewalk, or into any
channel or watercourse.
      3.   Cellars Or Drains In Offensive Condition: Whoever suffers or causes
any cellar, vault, drain, pool, privy or sewer belonging to or controlled by
him to become, from any cause, nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to the
public health, or unpleasant and disagreeable to adjacent residents or persons,
within the city limits, shall be deemed guilty of committing a public nuisance.
      4.   Accumulation Of Rubbish: It is unlawful for any owner, agent,
tenant, lessee or occupant of any building within the limits of the city to
permit rubbish, wastepaper, straw, hay, rags, excelsior or other waste matter
to accumulate in hallways, areaways, basements, roofs, closets, light wells,
storerooms or in yards close to the buildings. It shall be the duty of the fire
marshal to notify in writing the owner, agent, tenant, lessee or occupant of
the building or buildings in or near which such accumulations are found to
remove and properly dispose of the same forthwith. Any person receiving such
notice shall comply with the requirements hereof within twenty four (24) hours
of receipt of such notice.
      5.   Fire Hazards: It is unlawful and is declared to be a nuisance for
any person to maintain, cause or suffer to exist in or upon any premises in the
city owned, leased, occupied or controlled either as principal or agent, by
such person, any condition which constitutes a fire hazard and/or a menace to
life and property.
   B.   Animal Enclosures: It is a public nuisance for any person to keep or
maintain any pen or enclosure, stable or building for animals in such a filthy
or unwholesome condition as to be offensive to neighbors or passersby, or
injurious to the health of the neighborhood.
   C.   Obstruction Or Excavation In Public Ways: It is unlawful for any person
to place or cause to be placed any obstruction to the free passage through any
street, alley, crossing or sidewalk of the city, or excavate in or under the
same without lawful permission.
   D.   Expectorating: It is unlawful for any person to spit or expectorate,
vomit, urinate, defecate, place or deposit, or cause to be placed or deposited,
any foul, stinking or objectionable material upon any sidewalk or crossing, or
upon the floor of any public hall, theater or church, or upon the floor of any
store, or upon the floor or walk intended for the use of the public. (Ord. A-
205, 2-20-1973; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-3: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Fine Or Penalty: Whoever causes, erects, suffers or maintains any
nuisance or other offense prohibited by this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Whoever causes, erects, suffers or maintains any nuisance
or other offense prohibited by this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a
municipal infraction, and shall be assessed the civil penalty described in
section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Each day that a nuisance or other offense remains shall constitute a separate
violation. Any nuisance or offense, when a conviction thereof is had, shall be
abated by the chief of police or other proper officer at the expense of the
defendant. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
   B.   Abatement Without Prosecution; Assessment: Whenever any nuisance exists
upon, in front of, or along any lot or parcel of land within the city, whether
such lot or parcel of land is occupied or unoccupied, instead of prosecuting
the owner of the premises or his agent, the chief of police may cause such
nuisance to be abated either after notice or, in case of emergency, immediately
without notice. The abatement shall be done at the expense of the owner, and
the city may specially assess the expense to the property as a tax, which shall
be collected as other taxes are collected. (Ord. A-205, 2-20-1973)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Mandatory Use Of City Services
4-2-3: Container Requirements
4-2-4: Placement Of Containers
4-2-5: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-2-6: Removal Of Prohibited Conditions
4-2-7: Violation; Fine Or Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
SOLID WASTE: Includes every accumulation of animal matter, manure, fruit or
vegetable matter, ashes, branches or parts of any trees, shrubs or vines,
slops, tin cans, bottles, grasses or weeds, rags, paper, dead animals or parts
thereof, trash or filth and all other offensive matter. (Ord. A-27, 10-17-1949;
amd. Ord. 23-17, 9-5-2023)
4-2-2: MANDATORY USE OF CITY SERVICES:
Except as provided in § 7-2-4736, MCA, all residents, businesses and other
persons located within the city limits are required to use the city's solid
waste hauling services except for solid waste that is deemed recyclable and
hauled to a recycling center. No resident, business or other person shall
engage a licensed hauler to haul solid waste of the type that the city hauls.
(Ord. 01-05, 2-20-2001; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 23-17, 9-5-2023)
4-2-3: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   City Approved Containers Required: Solid waste shall only be placed
outside of a home, garage or other animal proof enclosure if contained in a
city approved solid waste container. Each city approved solid waste container
must clearly and visibly marked with the address to which it belongs.
   B.   Damaged Or Stolen Containers: Residents of the city and businesses in
the city are responsible for paying the cost to repair or replace any city
approved solid waste containers that are lost, or stolen, or damaged except for
normal wear and tear or loss or damage resulting from the city's or the city's
contracted waste hauler's handling of the containers. (Ord. 01-05, 2-20-2001;
amd. Ord. 23-17, 9-5-2023)
4-2-4: PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS:
   A.   Animal Resistant Containers:
      1.   Residents and associations of residents located within city limits
must store their waste in securely latched city approved animal resistant
containers.
      2.   Animal resistant containers shall be set out on collection day with
the lid securely closed. Residents and associations of residents located within
city limits must place their solid waste containers or animal resistant
containers within the designated street or alley right of way for collection no
earlier than seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on the evening prior to the day that
such solid waste will be picked up by the city or its hauler. All solid waste
containers must be removed from the street or alley right of way no later than
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on the day that solid waste is picked up. Solid waste
placed outside the container or solid waste prohibiting the lid from securely
closing may result in additional fees for service.
      3.   Businesses are exempt from the city approved animal resistant
containers until the city's contracted waste hauler provides such containers.
Solid waste placed outside the container or solid waste prohibiting the lid
from securely closing may result in additional fees. All businesses that
produce food scraps and food byproducts as part of their solid waste,
including, but not limited to, restaurants, bars, and grocery stores, shall
must deposit and store all solid wastes in animal resistant containers or
enclosures throughout the year.
      4.   A business, resident, or association of residents who violates this
subsection A shall be deemed to have committed a municipal infraction, and
shall be assessed the civil penalty described in section
1-4-4 of this code. Each day that a violation remains shall constitute a
separate violation.
   B.   Preparation For Collection:
      1.   City approved animal resistant containers must be placed four feet
from obstacles, including but not limited to other carts, power poles, and
vehicles and must be placed with the opening facing the street or alley.
Failure to do so may result in the container not being serviced.
      2.   Paper and combustible rubbish of every kind whatsoever shall be
securely wrapped, packed or contained in a manner that will prevent blowing by
the wind and shall be deposited in a proper receptacle.
      3.   With the exception of leaves, which are collected according with the
schedule determined by the Public Works Department, all other vegetation and
yard waste, including but not limited to tree limbs, trimmings, grass clippings
and stumps, must be taken directly to the county landfill by the owner or
occupant of the premises.
   C.   Dirt, Rocks and Building Debris:
      1.   Dirt and rocks accumulated as a result of improving or grading lawns
and gardens, will not be removed from the premises, nor from the streets and
alleys by the city solid waste collectors, but shall be removed to the county
landfill by the owner or occupant of the premises where such material
originated.
      2.   Dirt and rocks accumulated as a result of excavation of building
sites, shall not be deposited in streets or alleys, but shall be removed from
the premises where such material originates by the owner, occupant or
contractor, or whoever was responsible for doing the work.
      3.   Other building rubbish shall be removed to the county landfill from
the premises where such rubbish originates, by the occupant, owner, contractor
or whoever was responsible for doing the work, at least once weekly or as
specified by the public works department. (Ord. A-27, 10-17-1949; amd. 2003
Code; Ord. 23-17, 9-5-2023)
4-2-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Deposits On Public Ways: It is unlawful for any person to throw,
scatter or otherwise place or leave, or cause to be thrown or scattered or
otherwise placed or left, upon or along any street, avenue, alley or other
public place, or upon any vacant or unoccupied lot or lots within the city, any
wastepaper, rubbish, refuse, debris or solid waste of any kind. (Ord. A-27, 10-
17-1949; amd. Ord. A-129, 3-16-1964)
   B.   Burning: Except in case of receiving a fire department permit, it shall
be unlawful to burn papers, paper goods, carbon, rubbish, solid waste, organic
debris, or any other type of combustible matters outdoors within the city.
(Ord. 88-2, 3-21-1988)
   C.   Use Of Specific Containers:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to place, discard or deposit solid
waste into solid waste containers provided or placed within the city's parks
unless such solid waste is actually generated and accumulated in the park by
park visitors. The use of such solid waste containers and/or receptacles
provided in the city's parks is restricted to solid waste generated in the park
by park visitors, and no other solid waste shall be brought into the city's
parks for disposal.
      2.   All persons shall place, dispose, discard or deposit their solid
waste in the solid waste containers provided for their particular residence or
place of business and shall not use such solid waste containers and/or
receptacles provided for other persons or for public use at city parks or
street receptacles. (Ord. 94-5, 8-1-1994)
4-2-6: REMOVAL OF PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Responsibility Of Owner: It shall be sufficient proof for the purpose
of securing a conviction under the terms of this chapter that any such solid
waste or other offensive matter is shown to have been found improperly packed
or at any unauthorized place as specified hereinabove, or to have been found
in, upon or adjacent to the grounds or premises used or occupied by such person
that are charged with violation of the terms of this chapter whether such
premises are owned, rented, leased or otherwise held or occupied in any manner
and any such owners, occupants, tenants or lessees aware of, or who should have
been aware of, the presence of the solid waste which has been improperly
disposed of are declared to be personally responsible under this chapter for
any such refuse, solid waste or offensive matter so thrown, located, placed or
found. (Ord. A-27, 10-17-1949; amd. Ord. A-204, 2-20-1973)
   B.   Removal Authority: The city manager, the public works director or the
fire chief shall have power and they are empowered and authorized to order by
printing, posting or by written personal notice, to order the agent, tenant or
owner to remove from his premises or the streets and alleys adjacent thereto,
any rubbish or filth which in the judgment of any of these officers, is a
menace to public health or hazardous in case of fire.
   C.   Removal By City: In case the rubbish is not removed within the time
specified in the notice and order, any of the officers shall have the power to
cause the rubbish to be removed at the cost of the city. (Ord. 112, 4-19-1915)
   D.   Lien On Premises: The cost for the removal of such rubbish, when duly
approved by the city council, shall be a lien against the property from which
such matter was deposited, and the city clerk is authorized to certify the cost
to the county clerk for collection along with those taxes and other legal
charges against the property. (Ord. 112, 4-19-1915; amd. Ord. 126, 5-15-1917)
4-2-7: VIOLATION; FINE OR PENALTY:
A person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. A person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed to have committed a municipal infraction, and shall be assessed
the civil penalty described in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Each day that a nuisance or other offense remains shall constitute a separate
violation. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Nuisance; Misdemeanor; Municipal Infraction
4-3-3: Notice To Eradicate
4-3-4: Eradication By City Of Whitefish
4-3-5: Enforcement
4-3-6: Continuing Violation
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
NOXIOUS WEEDS: Any exotic plant species that may render land unfit for
agriculture, forestry, livestock, wildlife or other beneficial uses, or that
may harm native plant communities.
   Priority 2B: Priority 2B is defined as noxious weeds that are currently
established and are generally widespread in many counties of the State.
Management criteria include awareness and education, containment and
suppression of existing infestations and prevention of new infestations. These
weeds are capable of rapid spread and render land unfit or greatly limit
beneficial uses.
Canada thistle          (Cirsium arvense)
Common tansy            (Tanacetum vulgare)
Curlyleaf pondweed      (Potamogeton crispus)
Dalmation toadflax      (Linaria dalmatica)
Diffuse knapweed        (Centaurea diffusa)
Field bindweed          (Convolvuvlus arvensis)
Hoary alyssum           (Berteroa incana)
Hound's tongue          (Cynoglossum officinale)
Leafy spurge            (Euphorbia esula)
Oxeye daisy             (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum)
Russian knapweed        (Centaurea maculosa)
St. Johnswort           (Hypericum perforatum)
Saltcedar               (Tamarix spp.)
Spotted knapweed        (Centaurea repens)
Sulfur cinquefoil       (Potentilla recta)
Whitetop or hoary cress (Cardaria draba)
Yellow Toadflax         (Linaria vulgaris)
 
   Priority 2A: Priority 2A is defined as noxious weeds that have recently been
introduced into the State or are rapidly spreading from their current
infestation sites. These weeds are capable of rapid spread and invasion of
lands, rendering lands unfit for beneficial uses. Management criteria include
awareness and education, monitoring, and containment of known infestations and
eradication where possible.
Baby's breath           (Gypsophila paniculata)
Common buckthorn        (Rhamnuscathartica L.)
Eurasian watermilfoil   (Myriophyllum spicatum, Myriophyllum spicatum x
                        Myriophullum sibiricum)
Flowering rush          (Butomus umbellatus)
Meadow hawkweed complex (Hieracium pratense, H. floribundum, H. piloselloides)
Orange hawkweed         (Hieracium aurantiacum)
Perennial pepperweed    (Lepidium latifolium)
Russian thistle         (Salsola tragus)
Tall buttercup          (Ranunculus acris)
Tansy ragwort           (Senecio jacobaea)
Tumble mustard          (Sisymbrium altissimum)
White campion           (Silene latifolia)
Yellow flag iris        (Iris pseudacorus)
 
   Priority 1B: Priority 1B is defined as noxious weeds that have not been
detected in the State or may be found only in small, scattered, localized
infestations. Management criteria include awareness and education, early
detection and immediate action to eradicate infestations. These weeds are known
pests in nearby states and are capable of rapid spread.
 
Blueweed           (Echium vulgare)
                   (Polygonum cuspidatum, P. sachalinense P. x bohemicum,
Knotweed complex   Fallopia japonica, F. sachalinensis, F. x bohemica,
                   Reynoutria japonica, R. sachalinensis, and R. x bohemica)
Purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria)
Rush skeletonweed  (Chondrilla juncea)
Scotch broom       (Cytisusscoparius)
 
   Priority 1A: Not a high priority for treatment but can get out of control if
not watched.
 
Common reed        (Phragmites australis ssp. australis)
Dyer's woad        (Isatis tinctoria)
Medusahead         (Taeniatherum caput-medusae)
Yellow starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis)
 
(Ord. 19-17, 7-15-2019)
4-3-2: NUISANCE; MISDEMEANOR; MUNICIPAL INFRACTION:
Every owner of a lot or parcel of land within the City limits shall take such
steps as are necessary, including, but not limited to, mowing, pulling, and
applying herbicide (where lawful and appropriate) or biological controls (all
of which steps are collectively referred to as "eradicate") to eradicate
"noxious weeds" (as defined in this chapter) on such lot, and including any
adjacent boulevard, greenstrip, borrow pit or roadside that is owned by the
City or any other public agency. No owner of any lot or parcel within the City
limits, or agent of such owner, shall permit noxious weeds on such lot or
parcel, and including any adjacent boulevard, greenstrip, borrow pit or
roadside that is owned by the City or any other public agency. The existence of
such noxious weeds shall constitute a public nuisance. Any person violating
this provision shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code and in this chapter. Any person violating this provision
shall be deemed to have committed a Municipal infraction and shall be assessed
the civil penalty described in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Each day that a violation remains shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord.
19-17, 7-15-2019)
4-3-3: NOTICE TO ERADICATE:
Whenever the City discovers that noxious weeds exist on any lot or parcel
subject to this chapter, the City shall notify the owner of the property in
writing, or if no such person can be found, the City shall notice the person in
control of the property, in writing. The notice provided by the City may take
one of two (2) forms:
   A.   The City may, in its discretion, identify in such notice the specific
types of noxious weeds discovered, and identify the most effective eradication
measures that are to be taken with respect to such weeds. Such notice shall
require that the owner or person in control take such eradication measures
within ten (10) days of the date that the notice is mailed. In lieu of
immediate eradication, the owner or person in control may, within such ten (10)
day period, enter into a written agreement, satisfactory to the City, providing
for eradication measures within a time frame satisfactory to the City.
   B.   The City may, in its discretion, notify the owner or person in control
of the existence of noxious weeds, and require that such person, within ten
(10) days of mailing of the notice, meet with a City employee to identify the
types of weeds in existence and the most effective eradication measures, and
agree in writing to take such eradication measures within a time frame
satisfactory to the City.
Any notice provided pursuant to this section shall require that the owner or
person in control eradicate such weeds on any adjacent boulevard, greenstrip,
borrow pit or roadside that is owned by the City or any other public agency.
The notice shall further inform the owner or person in control that upon the
failure to eradicate such weeds within a specified time, the City may proceed
to have such weeds eradicated and assess the cost thereof to the property
involved. Finally, the notice shall provide that if because of age or physical
disability the owner or person in control is unable to physically comply with
the notice, they can, in writing, request assistance from the City, in which
case the Weed Education Outreach Committee shall be contacted to provide
volunteer assistance. If the City determines that the person making the request
qualifies for such volunteer assistance, it shall delay any enforcement action
so long as such person cooperates with the City and volunteers.
The notice described in this section shall be served by first class mail,
postage prepaid. In case service by mail is not feasible, then the notice shall
be published once a week for two (2) weeks in a newspaper in the City of
Whitefish. The last date of publication shall be not less than seven (7) days
prior to the date upon which the City commences the eradication of such weeds.
(Ord. 19-17, 7-15-2019)
4-3-4: ERADICATION BY CITY OF WHITEFISH:
Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or person in control to
eradicate noxious weeds growing, lying or located upon the property of the
owner, including any adjacent boulevard, greenstrip, borrow pit or roadside
that is owned by the City or any other public agency, the Zoning Administrator
or designee may eradicate such noxious weeds, through the use of City employees
or private forces. The Zoning Administrator or designee shall report to the
City Clerk the costs of such eradication. The City Clerk shall make an
additional charge of twenty percent (20%) to cover the City's administrative
costs. The total costs shall be assessed against the lot or parcel of land from
which or adjoining which the noxious weeds have been eradicated by action of
the City. The City Clerk shall cause the aforesaid cost to become a lien
against the property involved. Nothing herein shall prevent the City from
maintaining a civil action to recover all of such costs. (Ord. 19-17, 7-15-
2019)
4-3-5: ENFORCEMENT:
If any person fails to comply with any provision of this chapter, or fails to
comply with a notice delivered pursuant to section
4-3-3 of this chapter, or fails to comply with any written agreement executed
by such person pursuant to section
4-3-3 of this chapter, such failure shall constitute a misdemeanor and a
violation of this chapter, and shall also constitute a Municipal infraction,
and the Zoning Administrator or designee shall take any one of the following
actions, as deemed appropriate:
   A.   Issue a civil citation pursuant to section
1-4-5 of this Code.
   B.   Direct the City Attorney to issue a civil complaint and summons.
   C.   Direct the City Attorney to initiate a criminal prosecution.
For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat the violation as a
misdemeanor, as a Municipal infraction, or as a matter to be enforced through a
civil action. If a violation is repeated, the City may treat the repeat
violation differently than it treated the initial violation and may utilize a
different remedy. For the second and any subsequent violation with respect to
the same property owner or person in control and the same property, the City
may proceed immediately to eradication of such weeds as provided in section
4-3-4 of this chapter, without first notifying the owner or person in control
and providing an opportunity for such person to eradicate the weeds. In such
case the City shall recover the cost of eradication and recover administrative
costs by creation of a lien against the property involved, or through a civil
action, or both. (Ord. 19-17, 7-15-2019)
4-3-6: CONTINUING VIOLATION:
Every violation of this chapter shall be a separate and distinct offense, and
in the case of a continuing violation, each day's continuance thereof may be
deemed to be a separate and distinct offense. The existence of a criminal,
civil, or other remedy, or the pendency of a criminal, civil, or other
proceeding, under the provisions of this chapter, shall not be construed to
affect the right of the City to proceed with enforcement of any and all of the
provisions hereof by whatever lawful means are available to the City. (Ord. 19-
17, 7-15-2019)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
CHAPTER 5
HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Smoking In City Owned Buildings Or Vehicles
4-5-1: SMOKING IN CITY OWNED BUILDINGS OR VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   Definitions:
CITY OWNED BUILDINGS, ENCLOSED: Includes, but are not limited to, such
structures as city hall, the city fire hall, city maintenance buildings, the
Whitefish branch of the Flathead County library, the I.A. O'Shaughnessy
Cultural Arts Center, the city water treatment plant, the city sewage treatment
facility, all enclosed buildings located in city parks, as well as all
restrooms and concession stands.
CITY OWNED VEHICLES: Includes, but are not limited to, all types of wheeled or
trucked vehicles used for any form of transportation such as automobiles,
trucks, backhoes and snow removal or street maintenance equipment.
SMOKING: The act of lighting, smoking or carrying a lighted cigar, cigarette or
pipe.
   B.   Prohibition:
      1.   Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed city owned buildings and city
owned vehicles except as provided in this section. In order to prevent smoke
from entering any entrances, windows, ventilation systems or other accesses,
smoking is prohibited within an area twenty five feet (25') outside of any
enclosed city owned building unless the individual that is smoking is on
private property or in an enclosed vehicle. (Ord. 02-24, 7-15-2002; amd. Ord.
09-11, 8-3-2009)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or to smoke any kind of
lighted tobacco containing pipe, cigarette, cigar, or to carry or smoke any
other lighted smoking equipment using tobacco, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to carry or use any other chewing, tasting or ingesting type of tobacco
product anywhere on the property known as the Whitefish Emergency Services
Center, located at 275 Flathead Avenue, and legally described as lot 6 of the
Baker Commons subdivision, phase 2, including all buildings and enclosures, all
outdoor grounds, parking lots, sidewalks, lawn and landscaped areas. This
prohibition on the use, but not the carrying, of tobacco products shall apply
to persons in vehicles driving on or parked on the Emergency Services Center
property. (Ord. 09-11, 8-3-2009)
   C.   Exceptions: Actors performing in theatrical performances in the I.A.
O'Shaughnessy Cultural Arts Center shall be exempt from the prohibition of this
section if a written script calls for smoking by a character, but only to the
extent called for by the written script. (Ord. 02-24, 7-15-2002)
   D.   Violation; Fine Or Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor offense punishable by a fine not
exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each violation of this section.
Incarceration is not a penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this
section shall also be deemed to have committed a municipal infraction,
punishable by a civil penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each violation. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat the
violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Each day of violation is a separate violation. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-1-5 of this code.
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Police Jurisdiction
5-1-2: Sale Or Disposal Of Unclaimed Property
5-1-1: POLICE JURISDICTION:
   A.   Police Chief And Officers:
      1.   The Chief of Police and all the police officers of the City shall
serve as peace officers; to prevent intoxication, fights, riots, loud noises,
disorderly conduct, obscenity and the acts or conduct which is calculated to
disturb the public peace or which is offensive to the public morals, within the
City and within three (3) miles of the limits thereof.
      2.   The Chief of Police and all the police officers of the City shall
have the authority to make arrests of persons charged with crime within the
City's boundaries and within five (5) miles of the City's boundaries.
   B.   Judicial Officials: The City Judge is authorized and is empowered to
punish, as though the offense were committed within the City limits, all
offenses of intoxication, fights, riots, loud noises, disorderly conduct,
obscenity and acts or conduct calculated to disturb the public peace or which
are offensive to public morals, within the City and within three (3) miles of
the City limits thereof. (Ord. 17-31, 10-16-2017)
5-1-2: SALE OR DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY:
   A.   City To Sell Or Dispose:
      1.   All unclaimed, non-evidentiary personal property of a value of more
than twenty dollars ($20.00), in the possession of the Police Department for a
period of at least three (3) months, may be sold by the City at public auction
or disposed of in any appropriate manner not in conflict with any Federal,
State, or local laws or regulations.
      2.   The Police Department shall attempt to notify the legal owner of
unclaimed property by publishing a list of unclaimed property in its custody
the first week of January, April, July and October of each year on its website.
      3.   A properly documented finder of unclaimed property that has been
held in the Police Department's custody may take possession of the property, in
a manner not in conflict with any Federal, State, or local laws or regulation,
if the property remains unclaimed for a period of at least three (3) months.
      4.   Upon proof of legal ownership, the Police Department shall restore
the unclaimed property to the owner.
   B.   Notice Of Sale Or Disposal: If the unclaimed property is sold at public
auction or disposed of in any other manner, notice of the time and place of the
public auction or disposal shall be published not less than ten (10) calendar
days prior to the date of public auction or disposal in a newspaper of general
circulation. (Ord. 18-22, 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Interference With Public Officer
5-2-2: Malicious Prosecution
5-2-3: Alcoholic Beverages In Public (Rep. by Ord. 04-09, 5-17-2004)
5-2-4: Obscene Materials
5-2-5: Disturbing The Peace
5-2-6: Obstruct Or Damage Public Property
5-2-7: Advertisements And Handbills
5-2-8: False Measurements
5-2-9: Discharge Of Firearms
5-2-10: Smoking Marijuana In A Public Place
5-2-1: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC OFFICER:
No person shall resist, delay, obstruct or intimidate any official or employee
of the municipality in the performance of his official duty. (Ord. A-206, 2-20-
1973)
5-2-2: MALICIOUS PROSECUTION:
When any person has been arrested and brought to trial for the alleged
violation of any provisions of this code or any other ordinance of the city,
and it appears to the city judge that the prosecutor or complaining witness has
made complaint maliciously and without probable cause, judgment shall be
rendered against the prosecutor or complaining witness for costs; and the court
may issue execution to recover the same, as judgment for debt. Whenever the
city judge has reason to believe that any complainant is actuated by malice in
making complaint, the judge, before issuing process, may require the
complainant to deposit a sum sufficient to secure the probable costs. (Ord. A-
206, 2-20-1973)
5-2-3: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC:
(Rep. by Ord. 04-09, 5-17-2004)
5-2-4: OBSCENE MATERIALS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this chapter, the following definitions apply:
DISSEMINATE: To transfer, distribute, dispense, lend, show, display, exhibit,
send, transport or broadcast in exchange for consideration.
MATERIAL: Any book, magazine, newspaper, advertisement, pamphlet, poster,
print, picture, figure, image, drawing, description, motion picture film,
phonographic record or recording tape, videotape or other tangible thing
capable of producing or reproducing an image, picture, sound or sensation
through sight, sound or touch.
OBSCENE: Any material or performance, whether through pictures, photographs,
drawings, writings, cartoons, recordings, films, videotapes or other such
medium, if the following applies:
      1.   The average person, applying contemporary community standards, would
find that the material or performance, taken as a whole, appeals to the
prurient interest; and
      2.   The material or performance depicts or describes, in a patently
offensive way, sexual conduct, sadomasochistic sexual abuse or lewd exhibition
of the genitals; and
      3.   The material or performance, taken as whole, lacks serious literary,
artistic, political or scientific value.
PERFORMANCE: Any motion picture, film, video tape, played record, phonograph,
or tape, broadcast, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance or other
exhibition performed or presented to or before an audience of one or more or
transmitted by means of electrical, radio, television, telephonic or other
communicative device or facility to a known closed or open circuit audience of
one or more or to the general public.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm, association,
business, establishment, organization or other legal entity of any kind.
PRURIENT: A lustful, lascivious, erotic shameful or morbid interest in sexual
conduct, sexually explicit nudity, sadomasochistic sexual abuse or lewd
exhibition of the genitals. Materials or performance may be deemed to appeal to
the prurient interest when they have a tendency to excite lustful thoughts or
lascivious desires, or when they are designed, marketed, promoted or
disseminated to cater or appeal to such an interest. Where the material or
performance is designed for and primarily disseminated or promoted to a clearly
defined deviant sexual group, rather than the public at large, the prurient
appeal requirement is satisfied if the dominant theme of the material or
performance, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in sex of the
members of that intended and probable recipient group.
SADOMASOCHISTIC SEXUAL ABUSE: Actual or simulated flagellation, rape, torture
or other physical or sexual abuse, by or upon a person who is nude or partially
denuded, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically
restrained, for the actual or simulated purpose of sexual gratification or
abuse or represented in the context of a sexual relationship.
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
involving a person or persons, or a person or persons and an animal, including
acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, anilingus or
physical contact with a person's nude or partially denuded genitals, pubic
area, perineum, anal region, or, if such person be female, a breast.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: A person, with knowledge of the general nature and
character of the content of material involved irrespective of the absence or
presence of an evil motive, bad purpose or intent to violate or disregard the
law, commits the offense of disseminating obscene material when he:
      1.   Wilfully disseminates obscene material; or
      2.   Knowing or having reason to know that it will be disseminated,
wilfully finances the manufacture or production, produces, manufactures,
directs, photographs, poses, acts or in any way assists in the production,
copying or reproduction of visually represented obscene material or
advertisements for any obscene material.
   C.   Exceptions: It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section
that the material or performance involved was disseminated or promoted for a
bonafide medical, psychological, legislative, judicial or law enforcement
purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, legislator, prosecutor, law
enforcement officer or other person having such a bonafide interest in such
material or performance. (Ord. A-371, 6-2-1980)
   D.   Violation; Penalty: A person convicted of the offense of disseminating
obscene material, as defined in this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. A-371, 6-2-1980; amd. 2003 Code)
5-2-5: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
   A.   General Prohibition: No person within the municipality or within three
(3) miles of the municipal limits shall knowingly disturb the peace and quiet
of any neighborhood, family, or person by loud or unusual noises, or by
offensive conduct, or by using offensive, loud radio or television sets, or by
threatening, quarreling, hollering, challenging to fight, or fighting, or by
using threatening, profane, or abusive language in the presence of any person
or persons, or by committing any obscene, vulgar, indecent, or lewd act in any
public place, or in view of any person or persons. During the period from ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following morning, a
person shall be deemed to have knowingly disturbed the peace and quiet of a
neighborhood if he or she operates construction, excavation, or earthmoving
equipment, operates a dump truck or other heavy delivery truck (except when on
a state highway), or engages in construction activities that produce noise;
provided, however, that this restriction shall not apply to services performed
by a public entity, including, but not limited to, trash removal services,
snowplowing services, or emergency services; nor shall it apply to contractors
engaged by a public agency that have been specifically authorized to perform
work during such prohibited hours; nor shall it apply to private trash removal
or snowplowing services. The chief of police shall be entitled to grant a
written variance from the restriction on construction activities if he or she
determines that private construction activities must be conducted during the
restricted hours, provided that such variance shall be specific as to the
permissible construction activities and the permissible hours. (Ord. 03-22, 9-
15-2003)
   B.   Disturbing Meetings: No person shall, at any time, wilfully and
wantonly disturb any lawful meeting or assembly by noise, rude, offensive or
improper behavior, or language of any kind. (Ord. A-206, 2-20-1973)
5-2-6: OBSTRUCT OR DAMAGE PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Damage To Public Property: Unless the city's consent has first been
obtained, it shall be unlawful to damage, deface, alter, paint, discolor,
interfere with the city's or the public's use of, or harm in any way any
property owned by the city, including, but not limited to, city streets,
sidewalks, curbs and gutters, buildings, vehicles, utility facilities and
parks. A violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall
carry with it the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A violation of this section shall also constitute a
municipal infraction, punishable as set forth in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
   B.   Utility Poles And Fixtures: No person shall interfere with, cut,
remove, break or destroy any telephone or electric light wires, poles or
fixtures.
   C.   Damage To Shrubs, Trees, Grass, Flowers: It is unlawful for any person
to, in any way, injure or destroy grass, trees, shrubs or flowers growing upon
any public grounds, or anything placed in such places of a useful or ornamental
character. (Ord. A-206, 2-20-1973)
5-2-7: ADVERTISEMENTS AND HANDBILLS:
   A.   Advertisements: No person shall post, affix, place, write, draw or
paint, or cause to be posted, affixed or otherwise attached, any advertisement,
notice, handbill or placard on any telephone or electric light pole, tree,
lamppost, fire hydrant or municipal or other public building; provided that
official election notices for state, county and municipal or school district
elections may be posted upon telephone, telegraph or electric light poles; and
advertisements on bus benches may be installed and maintained on public
boulevards.
   B.   Handbills:
      1.   Definition: "Handbill" means and includes any printed or written
matter, any sample or device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper,
booklet, or any other printed or otherwise reproduced matter.
      2.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person to distribute,
deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any handbill in any public place or on
any private premises. However, it is not unlawful to:
         a.   Distribute any handbill in any public or private place to any
person willing to accept the same;
         b.   For a newspaper to distribute its newspapers on both public and
private property;
         c.   For a licensed distributor to distribute handbills in secured
containers which are firmly attached to doors on private premises, provided
that such distribution shall not be made to persons requesting discontinuance
thereof in writing;
         d.   Distribute official notices from governmental bodies. (Ord. A-
206, 2-20-1973)
5-2-8: FALSE MEASUREMENTS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this chapter, a "cord of wood" is
defined to be of the following dimensions: A pile of wood eight feet by four
feet by four feet (8' x 4' x 4') equivalent to one hundred twenty eight (128)
cubic feet, compactly piled.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is made contrary to the provisions of this section
if any person selling wood for fuel or offering to sell wood for fuel to make
or to give a false or short measure, as defined in this section, or to sell or
offer for sale any such fuel in measure less than he represents. (Ord. 182, 3-
18-1924)
5-2-9: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
It is unlawful for any person to discharge any firearms, or use an air gun,
catapult, slingshot or bow and arrow within the limits of the city, except that
this section shall not be held to apply to:
   A.   Peace officers in the discharge of their duties;
   B.   Persons lawfully protecting their person or property or the person or
property of others;
   C.   Persons discharging firearms in the course of hunting, in compliance
with state hunting regulations, on the surface waters of Whitefish Lake. (Ord.
05-26, 11-21-2005)
5-2-10: SMOKING MARIJUANA IN A PUBLIC PLACE:
No person shall smoke marijuana in a public place. Violation of this section
shall be deemed a municipal infraction and be punishable by a fine not
exceeding $50. (Ord. 25-02, 1-1-2025)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Enforcement
5-3-3: License Requirements
5-3-4: Vaccinations Required
5-3-5: Animals At Large
5-3-6: Animal Nuisances
5-3-7: Impoundment
5-3-8: Reports Required
5-3-9: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-3-10: Violation; Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Includes all police officers and any person appointed
or contracted to enforce this chapter.
DOG: Includes both male and female canines regardless of age.
POUND: Includes any City or County animal pound, control center or animal
shelter. (Ord. 18-21, 7-2-2018)
5-3-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Animal Control Officer: The City Manager, on behalf of the City
Council, may contract with or appoint some suitable person to be animal control
officer. The compensation to be paid to the animal control officer, if any,
shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Authority Of Police: The members of the police force of the City shall
have the same authority in regard to the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter as are conferred on the animal control officer, including the authority
to enforce Flathead County amended ordinance 3, "Animal Control", section 3,
"Dog Licensing". (Ord. 18-21, 7-2-2018)
5-3-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required; Fee: Every person who owns, keeps or harbors a dog in
the City must annually obtain a license for such dog from Flathead County in
accordance with Flathead County amended ordinance 3, "Animal Control", section
3, "Dog Licensing". Provided, however, licenses issued by the City Clerk prior
to the effective date of this section remain valid until their expiration date.
   B.   Failure To Obtain License: Failure to license a dog in violation of
this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this subsection shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). Any
person violating this subsection shall also be deemed to have committed a
Municipal infraction, and shall be assessed a civil penalty, as permitted by
section
1-4-4 of this Code, but such penalty shall be not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). For each separate
incident, the City shall elect to treat the violation as a misdemeanor or a
Municipal infraction, but not both. If a violation is repeated, the City may
treat the initial violation as a misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a
Municipal infraction, or vice versa. (Ord. 18-21, 7-2-2018)
5-3-4: VACCINATIONS REQUIRED:
Any dog within the City, whether licensed or unlicensed, must be vaccinated
against rabies in accordance with the Flathead County Rabies Control Program,
enacted March 21, 2015. (Ord. 18-21, 7-2-2018)
5-3-5: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
   A.   Dogs: No owner, keeper or harborer of any dog shall permit such dog to
run at large on any street, alley, avenue, park or public ground of the City,
or to trespass upon the private property of any property owner not the owner,
keeper or harborer of such dog, within the City limits; and all dogs shall at
all times when not on the premises of the owner, keeper or harborer, be
restrained and under the strict control of some person in charge of such dog by
means of a rope, strap, chain or leash, securely fastened to such dog and held
by such person so in charge. Any person violating any provision of this
subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished therefor as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition, any person violating any provision of this
subsection shall be deemed to have committed a Municipal infraction, the
penalty for which is set forth in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
   B.   Animals: The herding or running at large of horses, mules, sheep,
colts, swine or cattle or such other animals upon the streets, avenues, alleys,
parks or public places or grounds within the City, or the herding of such
animals on any unenclosed private grounds within the City, unless such animals
are in the charge of a sufficient number of competent and discreet persons to
prevent the escape of such animals from the control of the persons in charge,
is prohibited and declared to be a nuisance.
   C.   Livestock And Fowl:
      1.   Except as specifically authorized in this Code, no person shall
keep, harbor, house, maintain or allow to run at large any cattle, sheep,
horses, mules, asses, goats, swine, chickens or other livestock or fowl within
the City limits; provided, however, this section shall not prevent the keeping
of such animals for use in race meets, parades, rodeos, fairs or other like
events authorized by the City Council, during the immediate preparation for and
holding of such events.
      2.   Any persons violating any provisions of this subsection C shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and punished therefor as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any person violating any provisions of this subsection C
shall also be deemed to have committed a Municipal infraction, punishable as
provided in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 18-21, 7-2-2018)
5-3-6: ANIMAL NUISANCES:
   A.   Barking Dogs: It is unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any
dog, male or female, which by loud, frequent barking, howling, nipping or
yelping; or by trespassing upon the property of another, or which by any other
manner or way causes annoyance or disturbance to any person in this City.
   B.   Animal Feces: Any person who owns or is in control of a dog or other
domestic animal that deposits feces in any City park, City boulevard or other
City owned property, or in any other publicly owned property, or in any
privately-owned property, and who fails to promptly dispose of such feces in a
trash receptacle, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall also be deemed to
have committed a Municipal infraction, unless the owner of such property
consents thereto. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat the
violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 18-21, 7-2-2018)
5-3-7: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   Dogs: It is the duty of the animal control officer to impound every
dog running at large contrary to any provision of this chapter. All dogs
impounded will be held for ninety six (96) hours. If such impounded dog has a
license or other identification tag, the Flathead County Animal Control Center
shall notify the owner of said dog, within one business day, by telephone or
personal notice, that the dog has been impounded and where it may be redeemed.
If, after the above prescribed time limit, such dog is not claimed by its owner
and the appropriate fees not paid, the dog may be sold to a private individual
upon payment of the necessary fees, and, if required, compliance with the
licensing regulations. In the event an unclaimed dog is not sold to a private
individual, it may be destroyed. All fees collected in behalf of the City shall
be turned over to the City Clerk.
      2.   Other Animals: It is the duty of the animal control officer to
impound every animal or fowl running at large and/or known to the animal
control officer to be within the City limits contrary to any provision of this
chapter. If an impounded animal or fowl is not redeemed within ninety six (96)
hours, the animal or fowl shall be offered for sale. If the animal or fowl is
not sold, it may be killed; provided, however, the owner of any impounded
animal or fowl may redeem the same within such period of time by paying an
impounding fee, a release fee, plus a maintenance fee for its keeping for each
twenty four (24) hour period of time, or part thereof, that it is impounded.
All amounts so collected on behalf of the City shall be turned over to the City
Clerk.
   B.   Breaking Into Pound:
      1.   Prohibited: No person shall break open or injure the pound or in any
manner aid or advise breaking, opening or injuring the pound, nor shall any
person hinder, delay or obstruct any officer while engaged in taking to the
pound any dog liable to be impounded under the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Violation; Penalty: Any person breaking open or otherwise injuring
or in any manner, directly or indirectly, aiding, counseling or advising the
breaking open or injuring the pound, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the sum of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). Any person
violating this subsection shall also be deemed to have committed a civil
infraction, and shall be assessed a civil penalty of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). For each
separate incident, the City shall elect to treat the violation as a misdemeanor
or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a violation is repeated, the City
may treat the initial violation as a misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a
Municipal infraction, or vice versa. (Ord. 18-21, 7-2-2018)
5-3-8: REPORTS REQUIRED:
The Police Department shall present to the City Manager an annual report of the
previous year's activities, including animals impounded, animals destroyed,
animals picked up by owners, animals returned to owners, citations issued,
animals adopted, plus any other information pertinent to animal control. (Ord.
18-21, 7-2-2018)
5-3-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Causing Impoundment: Any person who takes or drives any animal from any
enclosure, lot or tract of ground, or from any stable or other building, or
from outside the City limits to within the City limits to any pound or with the
intent that such animal shall be impounded, shall, upon conviction, be liable
to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) for each animal so taken or driven from the place
aforesaid. Any such person shall also be deemed to have committed a Municipal
infraction, and assessed a civil penalty of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation. For
each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat the violation as a
misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a violation is
repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a misdemeanor and the
repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
   B.   Interfering With Animal Control Officer: Any person who hinders, delays
or obstructs the animal control officer or police, or other persons while
engaged in taking to the pound any animal or animals liable to be impounded,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in a sum of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00). Any such person shall also be deemed to have
committed a Municipal infraction and assessed a civil penalty of not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for
each violation. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat the
violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
   C.   Interests Of Animal Control Officer: The animal control officer shall
not purchase or be interested directly or indirectly in the purchase of any
animals sold under the provisions of this chapter, under a minimum penalty of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each animal, and the forfeiture of his office.
   D.   Trapping Of Furbearing Animals:
      1.   Definition: "Furbearing animal" shall mean a marten or sable, otter,
muskrat, fisher, mink, bobcat, lynx, wolverine, northern swift fox or beaver.
      2.   Trapping Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to trap or
attempt to trap any furbearing animal within the City limits.
      3.   Exceptions: Nothing herein shall prevent or prohibit authorized
employees of the Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks from carrying out
trapping activities when deemed necessary by said department. (Ord. 18-21, 7-2-
2018)
5-3-10: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Every person owning or having in charge, or whose duty it is to restrain,
control and keep all such animals mentioned in this chapter, while within the
City, who, contrary to the provisions of this chapter, fails to prevent such
animal or animals from going loose or unattended or uncontrolled upon the
public streets, or straying or trespassing upon the premises of another, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars
($300.00). Such person shall also be deemed to have committed a Municipal
infraction and shall be assessed a civil penalty of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). For each
separate incident, the City shall elect to treat the violation as a misdemeanor
or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a violation is repeated, the City
may treat the initial violation as a misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a
Municipal infraction, or vice versa. (Ord. 18-21, 7-2-2018)
ARTICLE A. DANGEROUS DOGS
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Purpose
5-3A-2: Definitions
5-3A-3: Duty To Investigate
5-3A-4: Possession Of A Dangerous Dog
5-3A-5: Dangerous Dog At Large
5-3A-6: Dangerous Dog Registration
5-3A-7: Justifiable Use Of Force
5-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide appropriate regulations for the
determination of dangerous dogs, their registration, control, restraint
requirements, confiscation, disposal and penalties to protect the safety,
health and well-being of the public. (Ord. 18-14, 5-21-2018)
5-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:
DANGEROUS DOGS: Any dog which bites or attempts to bite any person or other
domestic animal without provocation and not in defense of person or property.
Any dog, while running at large (see section
5-3-5 of this chapter), which bites or attacks any person or domestic animal
shall be deemed to be a dangerous dog.
DOG BITE: Any contact between the dog's mouth and teeth and the skin or other
parts or structures with visible evidence of trauma such as a wound,
hemorrhage, change in coloration, swelling, etc., which may be associated with
pain and/or discomfort.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department or agency
possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in or having care, custody
or control of a dog, or is named on the dog license. (Ord. 18-14, 5-21-2018)
5-3A-3: DUTY TO INVESTIGATE:
Upon a complaint by one or more persons of a dangerous dog, the police shall
investigate to determine whether a violation of this article has occurred.
(Ord. 18-14, 5-21-2018)
5-3A-4: POSSESSION OF A DANGEROUS DOG:
   A.   Any owner who keeps, feeds, harbors or allows to stay about the
premises occupied or controlled by him/her within the City a dangerous dog is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Upon conviction, the court may order the dog to be euthanized in
accordance with the severity of the injury or attack or may require the owner
to register the dog as a dangerous dog and impose any or all of the following
conditions:
      1.   The owner shall maintain a securely enclosed fence adequate to
contain the dangerous dog. The fence shall be properly maintained to keep the
dog confined. The dog may not be kept on a porch, patio, or in any part of a
house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such building on its own
volition except into the required secured area.
      2.   The owner shall display commercially manufactured signs on his or
her premises warning that there is a dangerous dog on the property. These signs
shall be visible and capable of being read from the public way and from any
normal means of entry to the premises. In addition, the owner shall
conspicuously display a sign with a warning symbol that will inform children of
the presence of a dangerous dog.
      3.   The owner shall notify the police within twenty four (24) hours of a
change of address. Immediate notification must be given if the dangerous dog is
at large.
      4.   The owner shall not bring the dangerous dog into any City park or
City dog park.
      5.   The owner shall not sell, transfer or give away the dangerous dog
without notifying the police. The new owner shall be responsible for compliance
with the conditions imposed by the court.
      6.   The owner of the dangerous dog shall not allow the dog off the
owner's property unless the dog is securely muzzled, wearing a collar,
restrained by a leash or other secure restraint, and under the physical control
of a person capable of restricting the dog's movement. The muzzle shall be worn
in a manner which will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision
or respiration but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
      7.   The dangerous dog shall be spayed/neutered if not previously and
proof of the date of the spaying/neutering, with the signature of the
veterinarian who performed the procedure shall be supplied to the court or the
police.
      8.   The police are empowered to make whatever inquiry is deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with any conditions imposed by the court. Should
it be found that the owner is not in compliance with the conditions, the dog
shall be immediately confiscated, impounded, and the owner shall be issued a
notice to appear in court and show cause why euthanasia of the dog should not
be ordered.
      9.   The court may order additional restrictions or requirements to
insure the safety of the citizens of the City. (Ord. 18-14, 5-21-2018)
5-3A-5: DANGEROUS DOG AT LARGE:
If any registered dangerous dog is running at large or if any dog appears to be
mad or dangerous to the public, and it appears to the police that it is
necessary to kill such a dog to protect the public from the dog, the police are
hereby authorized to kill the dog. (Ord. 18-14, 5-21-2018)
5-3A-6: DANGEROUS DOG REGISTRATION:
   A.   Any person required to register a dangerous dog shall pay a
registration fee in an amount set by Council resolution. The dangerous dog
registration fee is in addition to all other fees. Registration shall be
required within seven (7) days following conviction. The registration shall
expire on the last day of the month one year from the month of issuance and
shall become delinquent on the first day of the following month.
   B.   Dangerous dog registrations must be renewed annually unless within the
first year of registration the owner and dog attend and provide proof of
attendance and successful completion of a certified animal behavior
modification class to the police or court and the owner is not convicted of any
animal violations or violates any conditions imposed by the court. (Ord. 18-14,
5-21-2018)
5-3A-7: JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE:
While on the owner's property or off the owner's property and under the owner's
control, a dog is justified in using the force or threat to use force
necessary: to defend itself or a person; to prevent or terminate a person's
unlawful entry into or attack upon his owner's property; or to prevent or
terminate a person's trespass on or other criminal interference with his
owner's property. A defense of justifiable use of force is an affirmative
defense to the charge of possession of dangerous dog. (Ord. 18-14, 5-21-2018)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Curfew
5-4-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Hours Of Curfew: It is unlawful for any minor under the age of sixteen
(16) years to be in or upon any alley, street or place of business or elsewhere
within the city limits, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.; provided, however, this section shall not apply to any
minor who is on the premises occupied by such minor as a home or within the
home the parent, guardian or other person having the care, custody or control
of such minor, has designated for such minor to spend the night, or who is
carrying out an errand for his parent, guardian or other person having the
care, custody or control of such minor; provided further, that if any minor is
carrying out such an errand, such minor must have on his person written
permission to such effect, signed by his parent, guardian or other person
having the care, custody, or control of such minor; and provided further, that
any such minor on such errand shall neither linger nor loiter while carrying
out the same.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other person having the care, custody or control of any minor under the age of
sixteen (16) years to permit such minor to violate the provisions of this
section. (Ord. A-7, 11-20-1944)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Short Title; Applicability
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Maximum Load On City Streets
6-1-4: Passing And Turning Restrictions
6-1-5: Speed Limits
6-1-6: Vehicles At Scenes Of Emergency
6-1-7: Clinging To Vehicles
6-1-8: Vehicle Equipment
6-1-9: One-Way Traffic
6-1-10: Driving In Bicycle Lane
6-1-1: SHORT TITLE; APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Title: This title shall constitute the general traffic code of the city
and may be cited as such. It is enacted pursuant to the police powers of the
city and comprises all general regulations relating to travel, traffic, parking
and standing upon public highways, streets, alleys, and the rights, duties and
restraints of persons relating thereto. This title is declared to be an
exercise of the police power of the state and the city, for the public safety,
and shall be liberally construed for the accomplishment of that purpose.
   B.   Applicability: Every wagon, carriage, omnibus, sleigh, automobile,
motorcycle, bicycle, by whatever force or power the same may be driven, which
is or may be used for or adapted to pleasure riding or the transportation of
passengers, baggage, merchandise or commodities, and every draft or riding
animal, whether ridden or led upon or through the streets, alleys, highways or
bridges of the city, shall be and are subject to the provisions of this title.
(Ord. A-85, 12-5-1955)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases herein used, unless the same are clearly contrary to or
inconsistent with the context of the ordinance or of the section in which used,
shall be construed as follows:
ARTERIAL HIGHWAY: That portion of Spokane Avenue from the south city limits to
Second Street, and that portion of Second Street from Spokane Avenue to the
west city limits.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: A motor vehicle or other vehicle designed for the carrying
of freight or merchandise.
CROSSWALK: The area included in extension of sidewalk lines at all
intersections.
CURB: The boundary of that portion of the street open to the public for the use
of vehicles.
DOUBLE PARKING: The standing of a vehicle upon a street alongside of or
parallel to another vehicle which is parked at the curb.
DRIVER: Applies to the rider, driver or leader of any animal or a person who
pushes, draws, propels, operates or who is in charge of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Applies to fire department apparatus, police patrols or
ambulances.
INDIVIDUAL PARKING SPACE: A portion of the surface of a public street or
highway of sufficient length and depth from the sidewalk curb to accommodate a
vehicle to be parked, and shall be specified and marked off by the street
department of the city.
INTERSECTION: The space where streets or avenues or both intersect, bounded by
an extension of the curb lines of the intersecting streets or avenues or both.
LIMITED PARKING ZONE OR RESTRICTED PARKING AREA: Those areas within the city,
where parking is in any way restricted or prohibited to an extent greater than
ordinary parking zones or areas.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Includes all vehicles propelled by any power other than muscular
power, except road rollers, traction engines and railroad cars, and motor cars
running upon stationary rails or tracks.
MOTORCYCLE: A motor vehicle having but two (2) wheels in contact with the
ground and a saddle on which the operator sits astride, or a platform on which
he stands, and bicycles having a motor attached thereto, and a driving wheel in
contact with the ground in addition to the wheels of the vehicle itself, but a
motorcycle may carry one or more attachments in the seat for the conveyance of
a passenger.
OPERATOR: Any person who operates or drives a motor vehicle.
PARKING: Includes any standing of a vehicle upon any public highway of the
city, without regard to the length of time, and whether at an angle to the curb
or parallel thereto, or in the highway away from the curb, whether the engine
is running or not, and whether or not someone is in the vehicle capable of
moving the same.
THROUGH STREET: Any street or avenue, or any portion of any street or avenue
where motor vehicles are required to come to a stop before entering such street
or avenue.
TRAILER: Any vehicle which is attached to another vehicle for the purpose of
being drawn or propelled by such other vehicle.
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY: Any company that provides prearranged
transportation services for compensation using an on-line application or
platform to connect drivers using their personal vehicles with passengers.
VEHICLE: Includes all carriages moving on land, whether on wheels or runners,
and whether drawn or pushed or propelled by animals or humans, or propelled by
motive power, excepting a baby carriage. (Ord. A-85, 12-5-1955; amd. 2003 Code;
Ord. 20-09, 6-1-2020)
6-1-3: MAXIMUM LOAD ON CITY STREETS:
   A.   Loads Restricted: The city street commissioner shall, and he is
expressly given power and authority to, at any time because of weather or
climatic conditions, or for any other reason, restrict the hauling of heavy
loads or the conveying of heavy loads over or upon any street, alley or other
public way within the city which would result in damage or injury to the
surface of such street, avenue, alley or public way, to fix the maximum load
per inch of tire width that may be hauled or conveyed over or upon the street
and to determine the duration of the period that such restriction upon the
weight of loads hauled or conveyed over or upon the street shall be and remain
in effect. Vehicles having a gross vehicle weight of twenty thousand (20,000)
pounds, or greater, shall hereafter be prohibited from traveling on the
following streets:
Baker Avenue between Second Street and Thirteenth Street
First Street between Baker Avenue and Spokane Avenue
Railway Street between Baker Avenue and Spokane Avenue
Spokane Avenue north of Second Street
(Ord. 99-14, 12-20-1999; amd. Ord. 04-16, 8-2-2004)
   B.   Signs Required: When the street commissioner places a restriction upon
the load limit that may be hauled or conveyed over or upon any street, he shall
immediately erect or cause to be erected at each end of the street or at each
end of that portion of the street to which the limitation applies, signs of
such size and design as to be plainly visible and readable by persons using
such street for traffic purposes, which signs shall plainly show the street,
avenue, alley or public way affected by such load limit and shall clearly and
plainly state the maximum pounds per inch of tire width that may be hauled or
conveyed over or upon such street, avenue, alley or public way. (Ord. 287, 2-7-
1941)
   C.   Penalty: Any violation of the restrictions set forth in this section
shall be punished as a misdemeanor, and upon conviction a fine of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be assessed for the first violation; and a fine of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall be assessed for the second and any additional
violations. Any such violation may also be treated as a municipal infraction,
and the person violating the restrictions set forth in this section may be
assessed a civil penalty as provided in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
6-1-4: PASSING AND TURNING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   General Restrictions: Every person operating or driving a vehicle of
any character upon a public street, alley, highway or bridge in the city must
observe the following traffic regulations:
      1.   Traffic must everywhere and at all times keep to the right, except
as hereinafter provided. Vehicles moving in the opposite direction must pass
each other by turning to the right, and must each be to the right of the
centerline of the street, alley, highway or bridge. Vehicles moving in the same
direction must pass by turning to the left on the part of the one passing and
turning to the right on the part of the one being passed. At all turns, curves,
corners, crossings and intersections, and particularly where the view is in any
manner obstructed, vehicles must slow down and be under complete control, and
must keep to the right so that if the width of the street, alley, highway or
bridge permits, there is room on their left for the passing vehicle that may at
any time suddenly or unexpectedly appear.
      2.   Where traffic is heavy, slow moving traffic must keep as near as
possible to the curb. Vehicles turning corners to the right must keep close to
the right hand curb; in turning to the left, vehicles must keep to the right
and swing full around the intersection of the centerlines of the intersecting
streets and avenues. The operator or driver of any vehicle desiring for any
reason, either at or between intersections, to turn, must warn all oncoming and
following traffic by giving the following hand and arm signal from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner: left turn, hand and arm extended
horizontally; right turn, hand and arm extended upward, for a period of not
less than two (2) seconds and sufficiently in advance of turning to enable any
oncoming car or following car to stop and make the necessary change in course;
provided, however, that if the motor vehicle operated and driven is equipped
with directional turn indicators on the front and rear of the vehicle which
will indicate clearly and positively the direction the operator or driver
desires for any reason to turn, the warning herein described may be made by
means of such directional turn indicator, provided such signal is exhibited for
a period of not less than two (2) seconds prior to a change in course, and
sufficiently in advance of turning to enable any person in an oncoming car or a
following car to stop and to make the necessary change in course.
      3.   The operator of any vehicle upon any street, alley, highway or
bridge within the city, upon being overtaken by another vehicle and receiving a
signal or notice from the operator or driver of the vehicle in the rear, that
he desires to pass, must without unnecessary delay make every reasonable effort
to permit him to do so. (Ord. A-85, 12-5-1955; amd. Ord. A-216, 3-5-1973)
   B.   Turning Between Street Intersections: No automobile or other vehicle
shall turn in the streets or avenues in the city between the street
intersections except for the purpose of entering or emerging from an alley, and
when making turns for the purpose of entering or emerging from an alley, the
driver of such vehicle shall give notice of his intention to make such turn
either by proper manual signal or by signal by directional turn indicators on
the vehicle, all to be done sufficiently in advance of making the same to
properly warn all traffic of his intention. (Ord. A-85, 12-5-1955)
6-1-5: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Every person operating or driving a vehicle of any character on any of
the streets, alleys, highways or bridges within the city shall drive the same
in a careful and prudent manner and at a rate of speed no greater than is safe,
reasonable and proper under the conditions of operation existing at the point
of operation, taking into account the amount and character of traffic,
condition of brakes, weight of vehicle, grade and width of highway, condition
of surface and freedom from obstruction to view ahead, lighting conditions,
clarity of atmosphere and every other condition necessary to the safe operation
of such vehicle; and shall drive so as to not unduly or unreasonably endanger
the life, limb, property or other rights of any person.
   B.   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for compliance
with subsection A of this section, the speed of any vehicle in excess of the
limits specified in subsection C of this section, or established as hereinafter
authorized in subsection D of this section, shall be unlawful.
   C.   The following speed limits shall apply to all streets, alleys, highways
or bridges in the city, except for those streets or parts of streets, alleys,
highways or bridges where the limits have been altered in accordance with
subsection D of this section:
      1.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour when passing any school zone, as
established by resolution of the city council, during noon hour or during any
school recess, or during any period while children are going to or leaving
school, or within one-half (1/2) hour of the opening or closing hours of such
school;
      2.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour when light conditions or atmospheric
conditions, or other interference or obstruction to the view render it
impossible to see a distance of at least one hundred fifty feet (150') ahead;
      3.   Thirty five (35) miles per hour on all through streets and arterial
highways, except on Spokane Avenue between Second Street and the south bank of
the Whitefish River, and on Second Street between Spokane Avenue and a point
one hundred feet (100') west of the west bank of the Whitefish River where the
maximum speed shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour;
      4.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour in or on all alleys in the city;
      5.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour at all other places and under all
other conditions.
   D.   Whenever the city council shall determine, upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation, that any speed provided in subsection C
of this section is greater or less than is reasonable or safe under conditions
found to exist upon a street, alley, highway, bridge or part of a street, alley
or highway, the city council may determine and declare, by resolution, a
reasonable and safe speed limit thereat which, when appropriate signs giving
notice thereof are erected, shall become immediately effective at all times.
Such declared speed limits shall be valid and enforced and a failure to include
the speed limits in subsection C of this section shall not affect the validity
of such limits and all such signed and posted speed limits shall be observed
and adhered to, and any person violating any provision of this section for
which another penalty has not been provided shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as set forth under the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. A-85, 12-5-1955; amd. Ord. A-175, 10-19-1970; Ord. A-
285, 2-7-1977; Ord. 85-9, 8-19-1985)
6-1-6: VEHICLES AT SCENES OF EMERGENCY:
During the existence of any fire, at which a firetruck, chemical firefighting
apparatus or other firefighting apparatus of the city is present for the
purpose of fighting such fire, and during any fire drill conducted by the city,
all vehicles shall remain at a distance of not closer than one city block from
the firetruck or other firefighting apparatus. (Ord. A-85, 12-5-1955)
6-1-7: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person traveling upon any bicycle, coaster, sled,
toboggan, skiffs, roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster or toy
vehicle, to cling to or attach himself in any manner to any other moving
vehicle upon any street, alley, highway or bridge within the city, and no
operator or driver of any automobile, truck, wagon, sleigh, dray or other
vehicle or conveyance shall permit or allow any person to cling to or attach
himself to such conveyance, or to hold onto the outside thereof in any manner
while such vehicle is in motion, or attach any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster,
sled, toboggan, skiffs or any other coaster or toy vehicle to such automobile,
truck, wagon, sleigh, dray or other vehicle being driven or operated by him.
This prohibition shall not be construed to apply to trailers attached to
automobiles, trucks or other vehicles or conveyances for commercial or business
purposes. (Ord. A-85, 12-5-1955)
6-1-8: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Motor Vehicles:
      1.   Brakes: Every motor vehicle, except motorcycles driven or operated
upon any street, alley, highway or bridge within the city, shall be provided
with two (2) sets of independent brakes in good working order, either one of
which sets must be sufficient to stop the drive wheels of the vehicle and
prevent them from turning while the vehicle is in motion; provided, however, it
shall be unlawful to use compression brakes as an adjuvant or aid to stopping
or slowing the motor vehicle if said use of compression brakes shall cause
excessive and unusual noise that would be offensive to the senses or exceed the
noise decibel on the standard A scale of seventy (70) dBA within fifty feet
(50') of the streets and highways whereon such compression brakes are being
used. Every motorcycle driven or operated upon any street, alley, highway or
bridge in the city must be provided with a brake in good working order
sufficient to stop the drive wheel thereof and to prevent it from turning while
the vehicle is in motion.
      2.   Horns: Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon any street,
alley, highway or bridge within the city shall be equipped with a horn or other
device for audible signaling sufficient under all reasonable circumstances and
conditions to give timely warning of the approach of such motor vehicle. (Ord.
91-1, 2-1-1991)
      3.   Tires: It is unlawful for any person to drive, move or operate upon
any of the streets of the city any tractor, truck, caterpillar tractor or other
vehicle, the bull or drive wheels of which are equipped with blades, cleats or
lugs of such a nature as to cut up and destroy the surface of the streets
unless such tractor, truck, caterpillar tractor or other vehicle has the bull
or drive wheels thereof blocked or otherwise covered so that the blades, cleats
or lugs will not cut up or destroy the surface of the streets. (Ord. A-85, 12-
5-1955)
   B.   Trailers: No trailer shall be towed upon any street, alley, highway or
bridge within the city which is not equipped with safety chains or hitch,
approved by the supervisor or assistant supervisor of the Montana highway
patrol, and which trailer does not carry a taillight or approved reflector, and
which trailer is not so constructed as to operate without wobbling. (Ord. 198,
10-18-1926)
6-1-9: ONE-WAY TRAFFIC:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any motor vehicle of
any kind upon or over any of the following designated streets, alleys or
portions thereof indicated and described, except in the direction set out in
this section:
Lakeside Boulevard and that portion of Oregon Avenue lying east of Woodland
Place, and traffic shall only move from west to east on said portion of Oregon
Avenue onto Lakeside Boulevard to the intersection of Lakeside Boulevard and
Washington Avenue.
Lakeside Boulevard and Skyles Place lying west of Dakota Avenue, and traffic
shall only move from west to east on said portion of Lakeside Boulevard onto
Skyles Place to the intersection of Skyles Place and Dakota Avenue.
E. 6th Street lying between Park Avenue and Pine Avenue, and traffic shall only
move from west to east on said portion of E. 6th Street.
(Ord. A-422, 11-4-1982; amd. Ord. 21-07, 6-21-2021; Ord. 23-21, 10-16-2023)
6-1-10: DRIVING IN BICYCLE LANE:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any vehicle, whether passing
another vehicle or otherwise, in a designated bicycle lane, except that it
shall be lawful to cross a designated bicycle lane, in a perpendicular manner,
in order to turn into a driveway, another city street, a city alley, or other
lawful point of entry for vehicles. A designated bicycle lane is one that has
been clearly marked by means of either signs or other markings on the pavement.
(Ord. 03-17, 7-7-2003)
CHAPTER 2
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
6-2-1: Signs, Signals And Markings
6-2-2: Standing Restrictions
6-2-3: Parking Restrictions
6-2-4: Manner Of Parking
6-2-5: Prohibited And Restricted Parking
6-2-6: Loading Requirements
6-2-7: Handicapped Parking
6-2-8: Parking Lot Restrictions
6-2-1: SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS:
   A.   Authority to Install: The city manager or designee is authorized to
place and maintain, or cause to be placed and maintained, official traffic
control devices when and as required to make the provisions of this chapter
effective. The city manager or designee is authorized to place and maintain
signage and curb markings prohibiting stopping, standing, or parking a vehicle.
   B.   Signs Required for Enforcement: No provision of this chapter for which
signs are required will be enforced against an alleged violator unless
appropriate signage is in place giving notice of such provision.
   C.   Hours of Operation: The city manager or designee is authorized to
determine the hours and days during which any traffic control device or parking
regulation will be in effect, except in those cases where such hours or days
are specified in this chapter.
   D.   Marking of Parking Spaces:
      1.   The city manager or designee is authorized to install and maintain
parking space markings adjacent to curbing to indicate where parking is
permitted.
      2.   No vehicle may be stopped, left standing, or parked other than
within a single parking space. (Ord. 20-09, 6-1-2020)
6-2-2: STANDING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Use Of Public Ways:
      1.   The city manager or designee is authorized to designate such places
upon the streets, avenues or highways of the city, for public and private
buses, taxicabs, and transportation network companies to stand when not
employed in carrying passengers. No public or private bus, taxicab, or
transportation network company shall stand or park at any place other than at
the location so designated by the city manager or designee, except that this
provision shall not prevent the operator of any such vehicle from temporarily
stopping in accordance with other parking regulations for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in letting passengers into or out of such vehicle.
      2.   The city manager or designee is authorized to place and maintain
signage designating the location upon the streets or highways where public or
private buses, taxicabs and transportation network companies may stand when not
employed in the actual carrying of passengers.
   B.   Specific Areas: It is unlawful, at any time, to permit any vehicle to
stand in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device:
      1.   In any intersection;
      2.   In any crosswalk;
      3.   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
      4.   On any sidewalk, parkway or curb area between any sidewalk and
street curb line;
      5.   Within any alley in such a manner or under such conditions as
prohibit the free movement of vehicular traffic, or to block the driveway
entrances to any abutting property;
      6.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
      7.   On any private property without the consent of the owner of the
property.
   C.   Violation; Penalty: A person who violates this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. A person who violates this section shall also be deemed to
have committed a Municipal infraction, and shall be assessed the civil penalty
described in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Each day that a violation remains shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord.
A-85, 12-5-1955; amd. Ord. A-137, 11-19-1965; Ord. A-155, 8-7-1967; Ord. A-165,
10-7-1968; Ord. 85-14, 10-21-1985; Ord. 03-09, 4-7-2003; Ord. 09-20, 10-19-
2009; Ord. 20-09, 6-1-2020)
6-2-3: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Obstruction Prohibited: No automobile or vehicles of any kind shall be
so parked as to obstruct traffic.
   B.   Leaving Vehicles On Streets: It is unlawful for any person to store or
leave upon the streets any motor vehicle, trailer, or trash receptacle for
indefinite periods of time; it is the intent hereof that no motor vehicle shall
be parked or left on such streets unless it is in constant use. Any motor
vehicle not used at least once every twenty four (24) hours shall be deemed to
be stored in violation hereof. Any person leaving upon any street any motor
vehicle not in running condition shall be deemed prima facie guilty of a
violation hereof, which may be rebutted only by showing that such motor vehicle
had just broken down and such person had not yet had time to remove it from the
street. The owner of such a vehicle shall be responsible for a violation hereof
as well as the person so leaving it.
   C.   It is unlawful for any motor vehicle to be stopped or parked on any
city street, highway, alley, city-owned parking lot, or city-owned structure,
and be used as a place of residence, including stopping or parking for more
than three hours and using the street, highway, alley, city-owned parking lot,
or city-owned structure as a place to camp or reside.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to store or leave upon any city street,
highway or alley any camper, trailer or recreational vehicle for longer than
twenty-four (24) hours.
   E.   Removal Of Illegally Parked Vehicles: Any motor vehicle parked or left
in violation of this section or any other provision of this title or other
ordinance of the City regulating the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles
may be moved by or under the authority of any police officer who shall certify
that cost thereof to the City Judge who shall add the amount thereof to any
fine assessed against the owner or operator of such vehicle for the violation
thereof. Such motor vehicle may be moved to any parking lot provided by the
police or to a local garage for outdoor storage.
   F.   Street Maintenance Activities:
      1.   Alternate-Side Parking: To assist with roadway maintenance
activities such as snow removal, leaf pickup, and sweeping, the following
restrictions shall be in place from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. from October 1 through April 30 of each year:
         a.   On even-numbered calendar days, vehicles shall be parked on the
side of the street adjacent to lots and houses which have been assigned even-
numbered addresses - generally the north and east sides. On odd-numbered
calendar days, vehicles shall be parked on the side of the street adjacent to
lots and houses which have been assigned odd-numbered addresses - generally the
south and west sides. Alternate-side parking rules shall be determined by the
calendar date falling after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. For example, if a
person parks at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on December 3 and does not plan to move
the vehicle until seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. the next morning, the person would
park on the even side of the street because it will be December 4 after five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. and alternate-side parking will go into effect before the
person plans to move the vehicle.
         b.   This section shall not apply to streets where alternate side
parking is not available, including but not limited to cul-de-sacs and streets,
where no parking is allowed on one or both sides of the street at any time.
      2.   Vehicles Shall Be Moved: Any vehicles parked on any public streets,
avenues, boulevards, cul-de-sacs or highways within the City in violation of
this section shall be moved at once upon notification by any police officer or
public works employee of the City that the same must be moved for the purpose
of snow removal. Failure to immediately move the vehicle upon request of any
police officer or public works employee of the City shall constitute a
violation of this section. If, after reasonable inquiry, the police officer or
public works employee of the City is unable to locate the person who owns,
leases or has control of a vehicle left parked in violation of this section,
then the vehicle may be removed by the City at the expense of the owner, lessee
or person in control of the vehicle.
      3.   Right-Of-Way: All street maintenance equipment shall have the right-
of-way on all public streets, alleys and highways within the City during
maintenance operations and all vehicular traffic shall give way to the same.
   G.   Temporary No Parking Areas: No vehicle shall be parked on any public
street, highway, or alley within the City where temporary no parking signs have
been placed or posted.
   H.   Violation; Penalty: A person who violates this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. A person who violates this section shall also be deemed to
have committed a Municipal infraction and shall be assessed the civil penalty
described in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Each day that a violation remains shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord.
18-24, 8-20-2018; amd Ord. 20-09, 6-1-2020)
6-2-4: MANNER OF PARKING:
   A.   All motor vehicles shall park on the right hand side of the street with
the outer edge of the motor vehicle parallel with the curb and within twelve
inches (12") thereof, or as marked by parking stalls or designated signage. In
delineated angled parking stalls, motor vehicles shall park within the
designated lines with the right front wheel as close to the curb as possible.
   B.   Only compact and subcompact motor vehicles shall park in those parking
areas specifically marked for such motor vehicles. For purposes of this title,
"compact and subcompact motor vehicles" shall include only vehicles having a
length of less than one hundred ninety inches (190").
   C.   No motor vehicle shall, when so parked in any authorized and marked
parking space, extend into or encroach upon the driving lane as so painted and
marked on any street or public right-of-way, nor shall any motor vehicle when
so parked in any authorized and marked parking space extend into or encroach
upon any adjacent parking space as so marked.
   D.   A person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in the general
penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. A person who violates this section shall also be deemed to
have committed a Municipal infraction, and shall be assessed the civil penalty
described in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Each day that a violation remains shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord.
A-85, 12-5-1955; amd. Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009; Ord. 20-09, 6-2-2020)
6-2-5: PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED PARKING:
   A.   No Parking Zones: The City Council shall establish no parking zones. No
parking zones shall be designated by signage and/or curb markings and it is
unlawful for any owner or operator of any vehicle to violate the provisions of
city signed restrictions
   B.   Limited Parking:
      1.   Limited parking areas will be designated by signage and/or curb
markings and it is unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to violate
the provisions of city signed restrictions.
      2.   The city manager or designee may establish limited parking areas
within the City in accordance with the following:
         a.   A notice to establish the proposed limited parking area will be
sent to all addresses on the same "block face" (defined for purposes of these
regulations as the block in which a vehicle is parked, bordered by an
intersection on each end) as the proposed area.
         b.   A notice of such proposed limited parking area will be posted in
the proposed area. The notice must state the purpose of the proposed limited
parking area, the tentative boundaries of the area, and that any interested
persons shall be entitled to submit comments within a month of the posted
notice.
         c.   A notice of the proposed limited parking area will be published
in a newspaper published within Flathead County.
         d.   Within the month period, the city manager or designee will
consider comments and thereafter will determine the effectiveness of the
proposed limited parking area.
   C.   Time Restricted Parking: It is unlawful for any person to park any
"vehicle," as defined in section
6-1-2 of this title, for more than the posted time as designated by signage.
   D.   Alley Parking Restrictions: No person may stop, stand or park a vehicle
for any purpose other than for active loading or unloading of persons or
materials in any alley. Vehicles engaged in active loading or unloading shall
stand as close as possible to one side of the alley and in any case will so
stand as to permit other vehicles to pass.
   E.   Parking Restrictions For The City Parking Facility Located At East
Second Street And Baker Avenue:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in any
parking space designated as a "leased" space in the City parking facility
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday (excluding City holidays), without a valid lease parking
permit.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any large commercial
vehicle in any parking space in the City parking facility at any time.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any vehicle to remain
in any parking space in the City parking facility for more than seven (7)
calendar days. Any vehicle remaining in any parking space in the City parking
facility shall be deemed abandoned and may be removed at the owner's expense.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to remain in any parking space
that is not designated as a "leased" space for more than three (3) hours
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
Monday through Friday (excluding City holidays).
   F.   No Re-parking:
      1.   No person may stop, stand or park any vehicle for a period longer
than that designated by signs.
      2.   A vehicle will be deemed to have been parked longer than the posted
time limit if it has not been moved at least "out of the block face" or out of
the parking lot after expiration of the time limit indicated on the posted
signage. A vehicle may not return to the initial "block face" for the remainder
of the calendar day.
   G.   Temporary On-Street Parking Permits: Contractors, moving companies,
service vendors, and other entities may need to park in the downtown area, on
street, in excess of the two hour time limit, in order to complete a job or
service. For these situations, a permit may be obtained with the following
restrictions.
      1.   A permit application must be completed that includes:
         a.   Applicant name (business or individual) and contact information.
         b.   Client name and address at which construction, moving, or other
service is being provided.
         c.   Start and end date.
         d.   Type of service being provided.
         e.   Vehicle License Plate Numbers, as applicable.
         f.   Reason the permit is necessary.
      2.   Licensed contractors, trades, and other service businesses are
eligible for a "Temporary On Street Parking Permit."
      3.   Permit applications are limited to one permit per job site, and/or
destination facility.
      4.   A permit holder must use traffic devices approved by the Manual for
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) in order to 'reserve' specific parking
space(s). This includes barricades, traffic candles, traffic cones,
delineators, etc. Such traffic devices must be at least 36 inches high, in good
condition, made with a high visibility color, and display a copy-of the valid
permit.
      5.   A permit may be issued for a maximum of thirty calendar days after
which a new application must be filed.
      6.   Permits are only for use with on street parking, within the time
limited parking areas, during the posted hours for enforcement. The permit is
not for use within any other parking area, and does not provide exemption from
other parking regulations (restricted zone, disabled parking, etc.). The permit
does not entitle the permit holder to engage in retail or other commercial
activity.
      7.   Permits must be displayed at all times, as directed, or the vehicle
may be cited for overtime violations.
      8.   Fees for Temporary On-Street Parking Permits will be adopted and
adjusted by the Whitefish City Council.
   H.   Violation; Penalty: A person who violates this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided
in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. A person who violates this section shall also be deemed to
have committed a Municipal infraction, and shall be assessed the civil penalty
described in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Each day that a violation remains shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord.
17-20, 5-15-2017; amd. Ord. 19-23, 12-2-2019; Ord. 20-09, 6-1-2020; Ord. 21-04,
5-3-2021)
6-2-6: LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Every vehicle loading or unloading merchandise shall do so in the alley when it
is possible; when it is not possible, loading or unloading merchandise is
permissible at the curb; in all loading or unloading of merchandise at the
curb, the vehicle shall be so parked as not to unnecessarily obstruct traffic
and no vehicle shall remain at the curb under the provisions of this section
longer than necessary to load or unload merchandise, and in no event longer
than thirty (30) minutes without the permission first had and obtained from the
police officer on duty. (Ord. A-85, 12-5-1955; amd Ord. 20-09, 6-1-2020)
6-2-7: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   A.   Establishment Authority: The City Council may establish and designate
motor vehicle parking places on the public streets or public parking lots of
the City as reserved for use of handicapped persons only.
   B.   Signs Posted: Notice of designation of handicapped person parking
spaces shall be given by the posting of appropriate signs therein. Such notice
shall consist of installing therein a symbol sign which conforms to the
standards of the Montana Department of Highways for designating and identifying
a handicapped parking space and a statement that such space is reserved for
handicapped parking.
   C.   Use Regulations:
      1.   It is unlawful for a person to wilfully park a motor vehicle in a
parking space designated as reserved for handicapped persons unless the motor
vehicle bears or contains a valid and clearly visible card, plate, certificate
or insignia issued to handicapped persons by the Division of Motor Vehicles,
Department of Justice, State of Montana, in accord with Montana Code 49-4-301
et seq. Such card, plate, certificate or insignia shall be prominently
displayed in the windshield of the vehicle when the parking privilege is being
used.
      2.   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter does not relieve the
permittee from all other parking regulations lawfully required by the City,
including parking time limitations and parking meter charges. A violation of
any other such parking regulation is not considered a violation of this
section.
   D.   Violation; Responsibility:
      1.   Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked or let stand in
violation of any of the provisions of this section, the person in whose name
the vehicle is registered, or if there is no registration, then the record
owner of the vehicle, shall be absolutely liable for the violation and shall be
subject to the penalty therefor.
      2.   Whenever evidence shows that the vehicle had been reported as stolen
at the time in question, or was not parked illegally or that he was not the
registered owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, that
person is absolved of responsibility for the particular offense.
      3.   A violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor, and
shall also constitute a Municipal infraction, punishable as set forth in
section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Vehicles found parked in a designated handicapped person parking space in
violation of this section may be removed and impounded at the direction of the
Chief of Police and the cost of such removal and impoundment must be paid
before the vehicle will be released to the registered owner. (Ord. A-349, 6-4-
1979; amd. Ord. 87-1, 1-5-1987; Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009; Ord. 20-09, 6-1-2020)
6-2-8: PARKING LOT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Nuisance Prohibited: Any person who, upon any parking lot in the City:
      1.   Races any vehicle;
      2.   Engages in any game or play by means of any vehicle;
      3.   Operates any vehicle in a careless manner;
      4.   Operates any vehicle in a reckless manner;
      5.   Races the motor of any vehicle;
      6.   Parks or congregates in violation of any sign prominently displayed
at such parking lot by the owner;
      7.   Parks any vehicle so as to prevent or obstruct the free access to
any fire hydrant that may be needed in case of fire; or
      8.   Engages in any manner of vehicle operation which, if committed upon
a public street, would constitute an offense against the Vehicle Traffic Code
of the City, is guilty of the offense of maintaining a nuisance.
   B.   Enforcement: Any police officer of this City may enter upon any private
parking lot to abate any nuisance defined by this section, and on such parking
lot may arrest any person maintaining a nuisance as defined in subsection A of
this section; provided, however, that there shall be on file with the City a
written authorization by the owner of such parking lot empowering police
officers of this City to abate such nuisances or to make such arrests. (Ord. A-
189, 2-5-1973; amd. Ord. 20-09, 6-1-2020)
CHAPTER 3
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Operating Regulations
6-3-3: Equipment Requirements
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated
herein, unless the context otherwise clearly requires that another meaning is
intended:
ROADWAY: Includes only those portions of any highway, road or street improved,
designed or ordinarily used for travel or parking of motor vehicles.
SNOWMOBILE: Includes any self-propelled vehicle primarily for travel on snow or
ice or natural terrain, which may be steered by wheels, skis or runners, and
which is not otherwise registered or licensed under the laws of the state.
(Ord. A-192, 2-5-1973)
6-3-2: OPERATING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Driver's License Required: The operator of a snowmobile who operates
his vehicle upon a public roadway, street or highway, when allowed to do so
under the provisions of this chapter, shall have in his possession a license to
drive a motor vehicle as required by the laws of the state.
   B.   Operation On Public Ways Restricted: No person shall operate a
snowmobile upon any of the streets, roads or highways within the city, at any
time. Snowmobile operation may be permitted on the roadway or shoulder of any
road, street or highway within the city limits only in the event the street,
road or highway is drifted or covered by snow to such an extent that travel
thereon by other motor vehicles is impractical or impossible, or when the
operator is in possession of a written permit for such travel issued by the
city.
   C.   Crossing Streets: A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street,
road or highway, where such crossing is necessary to get to another authorized
area of operation. Such crossing shall be made at an angle of approximately
ninety degrees (90°) to the direction of the street, road or highway at a place
where no obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing. The snowmobile shall
make a complete stop before entering upon any part of the highway, street or
road, and the operator shall yield the right of way to all on-coming traffic.
(Ord. A-192, 2-5-1973)
6-3-3: EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
No snowmobile shall be operated upon the public streets, highways or roads when
permitted to do so by this chapter, unless equipped with at least one headlamp
and one taillamp and all equipment required by state law, which shall be
lighted at all times during such operation, and unless equipped with a suitable
braking device which may be operated by either hand or feet. (Ord. A-192, 2-5-
1973; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
USE OF HANDHELD ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Electronic Communications Devices
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated
herein, unless the context otherwise clearly requires that another meaning is
intended:
HANDHELD ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE: Includes wireless or cellular
phones, personal digital assistants (PDAs), Blackberries, smartphones, laptop
and notebook computers utilizing VOIP (voice over internet protocol)
technology, wireless and cellular phones utilizing push to talk technology, GPS
systems, navigational systems, and any other mobile communications device that
uses shortwave analog or digital radio transmissions between the device and a
transmitter to permit wireless communications to and from the user of the
device.
HANDS FREE DEVICE: An external device that connects to a wireless telephone,
wireless communications device or electronic communications device that allows
use of the device without touching the telephone or wireless or electronic
communications device with one's hands, and includes voice activated
technologies that can be utilized without touching the device. (Ord. 11-10, 6-
20-2011)
6-4-2: ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES:
Electronic communications device usage while driving prohibited.
   A.   Use; Possession: No person shall use or have in their immediate
physical possession a handheld electronic communications device while operating
a motor vehicle, motorcycle, quadricycle, or a bicycle on a public highway as
defined in Montana Code Annotated section 61-1-101(23) within the city limits.
   B.   Immediate Physical Possession: "Immediate physical possession" means
touching the handheld electronic communications device, or physically holding
the device in one's hand or up to one's ear. Simply having the electronic
communications device on one's person or in a motor vehicle does not constitute
immediate physical possession.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   This provision shall not apply to any person reporting a health,
fire, safety, or police emergency.
      2.   This provision shall not apply to governmental fire agencies,
ambulance services, law enforcement agencies, emergency responders, or any
other "authorized emergency vehicle" as defined in Montana Code Annotated
section 61-8-102(2)(a).
      3.   This provision shall not apply to passengers in a motor vehicle, or
persons using a handheld electronic communications device while maintaining a
motor vehicle in a stationary position, not in gear, while in a parking lane or
space out of moving traffic lanes.
      4.   This provision shall not apply to persons using a "hands free
device". Use of a hands free device is permitted while operating a motor
vehicle provided the driver does not touch the wireless telephone or wireless
or electronic communications device with one's hands while operating a motor
vehicle.
      5.   This provision shall not apply to drivers using two-way radios while
in the performance and scope of their work related duties.
      6.   This provision shall not apply to drivers holding a valid amateur
radio operator license issued by the federal communications commission while
using a two-way radio.
   D.   Violation; Penalty: A person who violates this section shall be deemed
to have committed a municipal infraction, a civil offense, and for a first
violation, a civil penalty of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall
be imposed, and for each repeat violation, a civil penalty of not more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall be imposed. (Ord. 11-10, 6-20-2011)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRIC BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Operating Regulations
6-5-3: Penalty
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and an electric
motor of less than seven hundred fifty (750) watts.
TYPE 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE OR LOW-SPEED PEDAL-ASSISTED ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling,
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of
twenty (20) miles per hour.
TYPE 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE OR LOW-SPEED THROTTLE-ASSISTED ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A
bicycle equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the
bicycle, and that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle
reaches the speed of twenty (20) miles per hour.
TYPE 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE OR SPEED PEDAL-ASSISTED ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling,
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of
twenty eight (28) miles per hour, and equipped with a speedometer. (Ord. 17-21,
7-17-2017)
6-5-2: OPERATING REGULATIONS:
   A.   A person may operate a Type 1 or 2 electric bicycle on any shared use
path or bicycle lane established by the City in a reasonable and prudent manner
up to a maximum assist speed of twenty (20) miles per hour.
   B.   No person may operate a Type 3 electric bicycle on any shared use path
or bicycle lane established by the City. (Ord. 17-21, 7-17-2017)
6-5-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall also be deemed to have committed a Municipal infraction and shall be
assessed the civil penalty described in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 17-21, 7-17-2017)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS
ARTICLE A. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Definitions
7-1A-2: Responsibility Of Property Owner
7-1A-3: Permit Required
7-1A-4: Construction Specifications
7-1A-5: Notice To Construct
7-1A-6: Repairing Sidewalks
7-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, all property having a frontage upon the side
or margin of any street shall be deemed to be abutting property, and such
property shall be chargeable as provided in this article, for all cost of
building, maintenance, repairs or renewals of any form of sidewalk improvement
between the street margin and the roadway lying in front of and adjacent to the
property, and the term sidewalk, as provided and intended for the purpose of
this article, shall be taken to include any and all structures or forms of
street improvement included in the space between the street margin and the
roadway. (Ord. 80, 9-6-1911)
7-1A-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
All persons owning abutting property shall build the sidewalk and all necessary
sidewalks for such property, and the same shall be built within the curb line,
and in no case shall the width of any portion of the sidewalk within the curb
line be less than the width of the walk of which it is the prolongation. (Ord.
80, 9-6-1911)
7-1A-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   The duties imposed upon owners of abutting property by the laws of the
state, and by this article, shall at all times be exercised under the
supervision and to the acceptance of the public works director or his
inspector. No work which creates any obstruction to public travel shall be
commenced until a permit therefor has been granted by the public works director
and the owner of abutting property shall be liable for all damage which may
arise by reason of carelessness in conducting any work upon the adjacent
sidewalk, or by reason of lack of protection of the public from danger by
proper guards or signals either by night or day.
   B.   None of the duties or privileges imposed or conferred by this article
shall in any way be deemed to authorize or allow the obstruction of any street,
either during or after any work upon any sidewalk, except under permit
therefor. No material removed from any sidewalk shall be placed upon any
portion of any adjacent street, alley, place or square except when a permit
therefor is granted. All refuse lumber and debris remaining after the
completion of any sidewalk repairs or renewal shall be removed from the street
forthwith, and any owner, lessee or tenant of the abutting property who fails
to remove any such obstruction from any street, alley, place or square within
forty eight (48) hours after being notified by the public works director so to
do, shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, and shall be
subject to the penalties prescribed therefor; and in case of failure to remove
obstructions after such notice, the public works director shall cause the same
to be removed and shall charge the full cost of such removal to the owner,
lessee or tenant, and the charge shall become a lien upon the abutting
property, and shall be collected as hereinbefore provided for the collection of
cost of construction or repair of sidewalks. (Ord. 80, 9-6-1911)
7-1A-4: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Street Grade: The established grade of all streets within the city for
sidewalk purposes only, and no other, shall be on a level with and conform to
the present contour of the center of the street, save and except in all cases
where grades have heretofore been approved and established by the city council.
(Ord. 80, 9-6-1911)
   B.   Street Standards: All sidewalks in the city shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications current at the time of
construction and available at the office of the public works director. (2003
Code)
   C.   Range Stone Removal: Any person who removes, displaces or mutilates the
range stone imbedded in the streets of the city shall, upon conviction, be
fined as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code for every such offense; such person shall also be deemed to
have committed a municipal infraction, and assessed a civil penalty as set
forth in section
1-4-4 of this code; provided that where it becomes necessary for the purpose of
grading or paving the streets to remove or displace the range stone, such
displacement or removal shall be done under the personal supervision of the
city engineer, and only in vertical lines and the range stone so displaced or
removed shall be removed to a depth of not less than six inches (6") below the
surface of the street. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to
treat the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both.
If a violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
7-1A-5: NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT:
   A.   Responsibility Of Property Owner: Upon the city council ordering the
construction of any sidewalk, the public works director shall immediately give
notice thereof, in writing, to the owner of the property immediately abutting
such sidewalk, or to his agent, lessee or tenant, either mailing or delivering
the same, fully describing therein the termini, course, width and character of
the walk ordered, and allowing a period of thirty (30) days during which the
parties so desiring may construct the walk abutting their property, and further
providing that all such walks so ordered, remaining unbuilt at the expiration
of thirty (30) days from the date of the notice, shall be built by the city at
the expense of the property owner as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Responsibility Of City: At the expiration of thirty (30) days from the
date of the notice, as aforesaid, the public works director must build such
portions of the walk ordered that may not yet be built within thirty (30) days
from the date thereof.
   C.   Lien: The construction costs of all new sidewalks ordered, as
hereinbefore provided, where the owner fails to do so, shall be under the
supervision and to the satisfaction of the public works director, in accordance
with the orders of the city council, or in the maintenance of sidewalks (which
total cost shall include that of the sidewalk proper as well as that of any
notice, grade, blocking, handrailings, private crossings and all other
necessary expenditures) shall be certified by the public works director to the
city clerk, who shall transmit a copy thereof to the owner of the property
immediately abutting upon the sidewalk, or to his agent, lessee or tenant,
either by mailing or delivering the same, which total costs of construction
must be paid within one month from the date thereof, and if not so paid within
that time, the same shall become a lien or tax against the lot or lots abutting
such sidewalk, and shall bear interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per
month until paid, and shall be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as other taxes affected by such charge. (Ord. 80, 9-6-1911)
7-1A-6: REPAIRING SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Repair Notice: Whenever any sidewalk which is now, or which may be by
reason of natural deterioration or decay, or by reason of unevenness, rapid
slopes or from any cause whatever, become unfit or unsafe for public travel, or
dangerous to the public safety, the public works director shall require the
owner of the premises abutting such sidewalk, or his agent, to immediately
repair the same, and in case of his refusal or neglect to comply with such
requisition, or in case no one can be found upon whom to serve such notice to
repair such sidewalk, such sidewalk shall be by the public works director
immediately removed, remodeled, rebuilt, paved, cleaned, repaired or newly
built, or such other form of relief as may be required to make the same fit for
public travel as in his judgment may be most expedient, and the costs thereof
shall be a lien upon the lot or lots abutting such sidewalk, and may be
enforced or the amount may be recovered against the owner by a suit before any
court of competent jurisdiction, or may be assessed and collected as a special
tax against such lot or lots as in other cases.
   B.   Repair By Public Works Director: Any owner, agent, lessee or tenant of
property adjacent to any sidewalk which is unfit or unsafe for public travel
may have the same repaired, renewed or cleaned up by the public works director
of the city, upon application to the public works director and making a cash
deposit with the public works director of the estimated cost of the work to be
done. Upon completion of the work, an itemized statement shall be furnished,
showing the full cost of all labor and materials used in such work, and if the
deposit made is in excess of such cost, then the excess shall be refunded; if
the amount deposited is insufficient to pay such cost, then the deficit shall
be paid forthwith by the owner, lessee or tenant of abutting property. (Ord.
80, 9-6-1911)
ARTICLE B. CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
7-1B-1: Statutory Authority
7-1B-2: Notice To Construct
7-1B-3: Repair And Assessment
7-1B-4: Special Tax To Abutting Property
7-1B-5: Special Warrants
7-1B-6: Financing
7-1B-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
In accordance with the provisions of Montana code 7-14-4109, the city council
may order sidewalks and curbs constructed in front of any lot or parcel of land
without the formation of a special improvement district. Whenever the city
council orders any sidewalk or curb to be constructed, it shall be the duty of
the city clerk to enter such order upon the minutes of the city council and
shall name the streets along which such sidewalk and curb is to be constructed.
(Ord. 161, 7-6-1921)
7-1B-2: NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT:
Whenever the city council orders any sidewalk or curb constructed and after
making such order, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to give written
notice to the owner or agent of such property in front of which lot or parcel
of land the city council orders sidewalk or curb to be constructed, which
written notice must be published once a week for four (4) consecutive weeks in
four (4) consecutive issues of a weekly paper published in the city, and also
by mailing a copy of such notice to every person or agent of such person having
property in front of which such sidewalk or curb is to be constructed, at his
last known address, the mailing to be done on the same day as the notice is
first published; the service of such notice to construct such sidewalk or curb
so ordered shall be deemed completed upon the date of first application of
mailing of the notice and if the owner or agent of such lot or parcel of land
fails or neglects for a period of thirty (30) days after the date of service of
the notice to cause the sidewalk or curb to be constructed, the city council
shall construct or cause to be constructed the sidewalk or curb, and the cost
thereof shall be assessed against the property in front of which the same are
constructed, and the assessment shall be a lien against the property to which
it is assessed. (Ord. 161, 7-6-1921)
7-1B-3: REPAIR AND ASSESSMENT:
Any sidewalk or curb which now is or may hereafter, by reason of deterioration
or otherwise in the opinion of the city council, be dangerous to the public
safety may be by them condemned and may be by them immediately removed, and on
order of the city council be repaired or rebuilt with such material and in such
manner as the city council may direct, and the cost thereof may be assessed and
collected as a special assessment against such lot. (Ord. 161, 7-6-1921)
7-1B-4: SPECIAL TAX TO ABUTTING PROPERTY:
The total costs of all sidewalks constructed by the contractor or that may be
constructed or repaired by the public works department, in accordance with the
order of the city council, or in maintenance of sidewalks (which total cost
shall include that of the sidewalk proper as well as that of any notice, grade,
blocking, hand railing, private crossing and all other necessary expenditures)
shall be assessed as a special tax to the property in front of which the
sidewalk is to be built or repaired, the property occupying the corners to be
assessed for that part of the sidewalk or repairs thereon which is within the
street intersection. (Ord. 161, 7-6-1921)
7-1B-5: SPECIAL WARRANTS:
   A.   Special Warrant Against Fund: When any sidewalk or curb constructed by
or under the direction of the city council, payment for the construction
thereof shall be made by special warrants in the form prescribed herein which
shall bear interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per year and the city
council may provide for the payment of such interest annually. (Ord. 161, 7-6-
1921; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Form: When any sidewalk or curb is constructed by or under the
direction of the city council, payment for the construction thereof shall be
made by special warrant, which shall be in a form as on file with the city
clerk. (Ord. 161, 7-6-1921)
   C.   Denominations: Sidewalk and curb warrants shall be issued in
denominations of one hundred dollars ($100.00) each, save and excepting the
last warrant issued for any particular piece of work wherein the balance due
may be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), in which event the warrant
shall be issued for such amount remaining due. (Ord. 161, 7-6-1921; amd. 2003
Code)
   D.   Interest Coupons:
      1.   Signatures; Seal: The warrants shall be signed by the city manager
and the city clerk and shall bear the corporate seal of the city, and the
coupons may bear the facsimile signatures of the city manager and city clerk.
      2.   Form: Interest coupons to be attached in the warrant in subsection B
of this section in shall be in the form on file with the city clerk. (Ord. 161,
7-6-1921)
7-1B-6: FINANCING:
   A.   Defrayment Of Costs: The payment of assessments to defray the cost of
construction of the sidewalks and curbs may be spread over a term of eight (8)
years, payment to be made in equal annual installments.
   B.   Levy Of Assessments: The city council shall, annually and before the
first Monday of October of each year, pass and adopt a resolution levying an
assessment and tax against each lot or parcel of land in front of which
sidewalks or curbs have been constructed under orders of the city council. Such
resolution levying such assessment shall be in every manner prepared and
certified the same as resolutions levying assessments for making improvements
in special improvement districts. (Ord. 161, 7-6-1921)
   C.   Disposition Of Monies: All monies collected from assessments made for
the construction of sidewalks and curbs ordered by the city council shall be
placed to the credit of an appropriate fund. (Ord. 161, 7-6-1921; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Encroachments
7-2-2: Snow And Ice Removal
7-2-3: Skateboards
7-2-1: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Defined: An "encroachment" is the existence of a privately owned or
maintained structure, item of personal property, or excavation in, on, or
across city owned property, or over city owned property. The term encroachment
includes, but is not limited to, items such as a fence, garage, roof overhang,
ditch, culvert, or pipeline in, on, across or over city owned property. A
driveway or point of access and any associated culverts onto a city owned
street shall not be considered an encroachment for purposes of this section.
   B.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for an individual or entity to
create or maintain an encroachment in, on, across or over city owned property
unless a permit authorizing such encroachment has been issued by the city.
   C.   Obstruction Of Public Rights Of Way:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided by city code and regulation, no person
shall erect, place or leave any private sign, eaves, marquee or similar other
structure, fixture or device, or cause or allow the same to remain or encroach
upon any public right of way.
      2.   Awnings, fascia, roofs and other structures that encroach into or
over the public way or public property, or that could shed ice, snow or water
onto the public way or onto public property, shall be subject to regulation by
the city, in order to prevent property damage and injury to members of the
public.
   D.   Exceptions: This section shall not be construed to prohibit the
following in the WB-3 general business district:
      1.   Private advertising signs, eaves, marquees and similar devices
overhanging the right of way provided:
         a.   The overhanging device received the required prior approval and
authorization appropriate to the device from city architectural review,
planning and zoning, including sign regulations, building standards, and fire
and safety codes, and any city code or regulation in force or hereafter adopted
or established.
         b.   The lowest part of any such device which extends over any public
way shall be at least eight feet (8') above the level of the walk or public way
over which it extends and the outside support for such devices, if any, shall
be at least two feet (2') back from the curb or street line. Further, the
overhanging device may not interfere with access from the street and parking
areas.
         c.   Such device is maintained in compliance with city standards,
codes and regulations, kept clean and in good repair, and subject to the
control of and as authorized by the director of public works or designee.
      2.   Merchandise, provided:
         a.   Merchandise may be temporarily displayed on the sidewalk in front
of that respective business. Merchandise can only be placed on sidewalks during
business hours.
         b.   Sidewalk displays of merchandise must provide at least six feet
(6') of unobstructed clearance, exclusive of any canopy support post, and must
be maintained at all times. Further, sidewalk displays may not interfere with
access from the street or parking areas.
      3.   Benches, planters, garbage cans, bike racks and other similar
devices upon the right of way, provided:
         a.   Such similar devices may be temporarily displayed on the sidewalk
in front of the respective business and must provide at least six feet (6') of
unobstructed clearance and may not interfere with access from street or parking
areas.
         b.   Benches, tables and chairs, planters, garbage cans, bike racks
and other fixtures must receive prior written authorization from the director
of public works or designee.
         c.   All such similar devices are maintained in compliance with city
standards, codes and regulations, and subject to the control of and as
authorized by the director of public works or designee.
   E.   Construction And Maintenance Work:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided by this code, all public rights of way,
including streets, sidewalks, alleys and paths, and all public places of the
city, shall at all times be kept free, clear, and clean of all obstructions,
debris, encumbrances, and encroachments which hamper or interfere with the
public's free and safe use.
      2.   No person shall impede, obstruct, or tear up any pavement, sidewalk,
or crosswalk, or any part thereof, dig any hole, shaft, ditch, or drain, or dig
or remove any sod, earth, stones, sand, or gravel from any street, avenue,
alley, and public place without first having obtained a permit from the
director of public works or designee. Nor shall any person hinder or obstruct
the making or repairing of any public improvement or work ordered or done by,
or under the authority of the city.
      3.   Permits for construction and maintenance work in right of way and
public places of the city shall be subject to an application fee established by
resolution, and any conditions of the permit.
   F.   Encroachment Permits:
      1.   Construction Encroachment Permit: An individual or entity may apply
to the city for an encroachment permit by filling out and submitting an
application to the director of public works or designee on forms furnished by
the city, and by paying the appropriate fee, as set by resolution. Such fee
shall be nonrefundable.
      2.   Structural Encroachment Permit: An individual or entity may apply to
the city for a structural encroachment permit by filling out and submitting an
application to the city manager on forms furnished by the city, and by paying
the appropriate fee, as set by resolution. Such fee shall be nonrefundable.
      3.   Application: The application for a construction or structural
encroachment permit must include a drawing of the location and dimensions of
the right of way area proposed for the encroachment and the arrangement of
objects, fixtures, or portions of structures expected to be located on the
right of way.
      4.   Process: The city may act on the application, and may either grant,
grant with conditions and limitations on the use of the right of way, or deny
the application. The applicant shall be notified in writing of the city's
determination, mailed to the applicant's address on the application.
      5.   Permit Revocable; Nontransferable: The permit is a revocable
license, personal to the applicant, and may not be transferred.
   G.   Appeals: The determination of the city manager may be appealed to the
city council by a letter or other written notice, signed by the applicant,
indicating the applicant's desire to appeal, provided that the city receives
such appeal within thirty (30) days of the date that the city manager's
determination is mailed. If an unsuccessful applicant appeals a decision by the
city, then a hearing shall be scheduled before the city council. After
receiving input from the applicant and the public, the city council shall
grant, grant with conditions, or deny the application. The decision of the city
council shall be final.
   H.   Granting/Revoking Of Permit: The granting of an encroachment permit is
a matter of grace, resting solely in the discretion of the city manager or
designee, or when applicable, the city council, and a denial of an encroachment
permit is not a denial of a right. Whether or not the permit so states,
encroachment permits granted pursuant to this section shall be for such term as
determined by the city. Permits shall not run with the land, but instead shall
automatically terminate upon removal of the encroachment or upon transfer of
all interest in the property benefited by the encroachment. Any encroachment
permit granted shall be revocable by the city, whether or not the permit so
states, after providing the applicant with thirty (30) days' prior written
notice of the revocation mailed to the property at the address provided on the
application. The property owner may appeal the revocation to the city council
provided the city receives such written appeal within thirty (30) days of the
date that the city's revocation notice is mailed. If timely appealed, the
property owner's appeal will be heard at a council meeting. After receiving
input from the property owner and the public, the city council shall grant,
grant with conditions or deny the appeal. The decision of the city council
shall be final. In the event of revocation of an encroachment permit, no
compensation shall be due from the City to the applicant.
   I.   Unlawful Encroachments: Upon receiving a written complaint from any
individual or entity with respect to an unlawful encroachment, the City Manager
or designee shall provide written, mailed notice to the owner of the property
benefited by such encroachment of the need to obtain an encroachment permit, or
cease and desist from maintaining the encroachment. Such owner shall have
fifteen (15) days after the mailing of such notice to eliminate the
encroachment or apply for an encroachment permit. Any encroachment which
remains in violation of this section may be abated by the City, as determined
appropriate by the City Manager. The City Manager may cause to be issued a
civil citation pursuant to the provisions of section
1-4-5 of this Code or, alternatively, may direct the City Attorney to issue a
civil complaint and a summons or initiate a criminal prosecution. A violation
of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor subject to the general penalty
identified in section
1-4-1 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor, as a Municipal infraction, or as a matter to be
enforced through a civil action. If a violation is repeated, the City may treat
the repeat violation differently than it treated the initial violation, and may
utilize a different remedy. Each day that a violation remains after notice to
the owner as described above shall constitute a separate violation of this
section.
   J.   Existing Encroachments: An encroachment existing as of the date of
adoption of this section shall not be considered legal. Instead, any
encroachment existing as of the date of the adoption of this section shall be
considered in violation of this section until a permit authorizing such
encroachment is granted. (Ord. 11-18, 12-5-2011)
7-2-2: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   Business Districts:
      1.   Business Districts Described: As used herein, the Business Districts
are all those areas in the City which are or will be designated and zoned as
WB-1, WB-2, WB-3, WB-4, WRB-1, WRB-2, WBSD, WT-3, WI-T, WB-T, and WI under
title 11 of this Code.
      2.   Snow And Ice Removal: It is the duty of the owner and tenant, if
any, of any premises within the Business Districts to keep all sidewalks, bulb-
outs, ADA ramps, and shared use paths in front of and abutting or adjoining
said premises reasonably clear of accumulations of ice, snow, slush or other
impediments and passable for pedestrians of all abilities by removing such ice,
snow, slush and other impediments, providing a minimum five foot (5') clearance
for pedestrian and bicycle traffic, and to prevent continuance and accumulation
of the same upon such sidewalks, bulb-outs, ADA ramps, and shared use paths.
Sidewalks and shared use paths must be reasonably cleared from the night’s
accumulation of ice, snow, slush or other impediments. When ice and snow
accumulations are not able to be reasonably removed by standard methods such as
shoveling, plowing, and snow blowing, methods such as application of sand, rock
chips, rock salt, and deicer are permitted to promote safe and reasonable
passage. De-icer is not recommended on vulnerable, new sidewalks for up to two
years after installation or adjacent to public landscaping and street trees.
When from any cause said sidewalks and shared use paths are reasonably rendered
dangerous, unsafe or difficult to the passage of pedestrians, it is the duty of
the owners and tenants, if any, to remedy such conditions as soon as reasonably
feasible.
      3.   Obstruction Of Public Right-Of-Way: No person may place or leave
snow, ice, slush, or other impediments on a sidewalk, shared use path, or
public street. Provided, however: In those areas of the WB-3 Zoning District
where no landscaped boulevard exists to hold and store snow, owners and tenants
may shovel snow and ice from sidewalks and shared use paths into the public
streets except on the portion of 2nd Street which is a State highway.
“Sidewalks” include adjacent paved areas at some street corners that are
sometimes referred to as “bulb-outs” or “curb extensions”.
   B.   Residential Districts:
      1.   Residential Districts Described: As used herein, the Residential
Districts are all those other areas in the City which are not designated,
listed or enumerated in subsection A of this section as Business Districts.
      2.   Snow And Ice Removal: It is the duty of the owner and tenant, if
any, of any premises within the Residential Districts to keep all sidewalks,
ADA ramps, and shared use paths in front of and abutting or adjoining said
premises reasonably clear of accumulations of ice, snow, slush or other
impediments and passable for pedestrians of all abilities, providing a minimum
five foot (5') clearance for pedestrian and bicycle traffic, and to reasonably
prevent continuance and accumulation of the same upon such sidewalks and shared
use paths. Sidewalks and shared use paths must, in all cases, be reasonably
cleared from accumulation of ice, snow, slush or other impediment within
twenty-four (24) hours. When ice and snow accumulations are not able to be
reasonably removed by standard methods such as shoveling, plowing, and snow
blowing, methods such as application of sand, rock chips, rock salt, and deicer
are permitted to promote safe and reasonable passage. De-icer is not
recommended on vulnerable, new sidewalks for up to two years after installation
or adjacent to public landscaping and street trees. When, from any cause, said
sidewalks and shared use paths are reasonably rendered dangerous, unsafe or
difficult to the passage of pedestrians, it shall be the duty of the owners and
tenants, if any, to remedy such condition as soon as reasonably feasible.
   C.   Liability: The City will not be liable for injuries to pedestrians
caused by or contributed to by sidewalks and shared use paths which are unsafe
or dangerous by reason of accumulation of ice, snow, slush or other impediments
thereon.
   D.   City Removal; Assess Property: If the owner or tenant of the premises
abutting or adjoining said sidewalks and shared use paths fails to remove the
accumulations of ice, snow, slush or other impediments from said sidewalks in
accordance to and within the time specified in this section, the City Manager,
or designee, may proceed to provide for the removal of such ice, snow, slush or
other impediment and the costs so incurred after providing written warning
notice, either by mail or a door-hanger, to the owner or tenant of said
premises. A twenty percent (20%) administration fee with a minimum of $60, not
to exceed $300, will be assessed and collected against such owner and or tenant
in the same manner as other Municipal taxes or charges are assessed and
collected and such costs may be included in any judgment or fine assessed by
the court for any violation of this section. If said costs are assessed as
other Municipal taxes or charges, then such costs of removal shall constitute a
lien or charge against said premises so assessed until the same is paid in
full.
   E.   Dangerous Accumulation Of Snow Or Ice On Roof: When a dangerous
accumulation of ice or snow exists upon any roof and which ice and snow may
fall upon the adjacent or abutting sidewalk, the property owner or tenant of
the premises may, with the consent of the City Manager, barricade said sidewalk
and not remove the accumulation of ice and snow on the sidewalk. However, this
provision will not allow such continued failure to remove ice and snow from the
sidewalk when the roof becomes free from the dangerous accumulation of ice and
snow, in which case the property owner and tenant, if any, must remove said
accumulation of ice and snow from the sidewalk within twenty four (24) hours
after said roof has become free and clear of any dangerous accumulations of ice
and snow.
   F.   Violations; Fine Or Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating any
of the provisions of subsections A2, B2 and E of this section will , upon
complaint and conviction thereof, be punished according to the general penalty
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any person who violates any of the provisions of
subsections A2, B2 and E of this section will be deemed to have committed a
Municipal infraction, and will be assessed the civil penalty described in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City may elect to treat the
violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
Each day that a violation remains is a separate violation. (Ord. 18-33, 11-5-
2018; amd. Ord. 25-06, 6-16-2025) Municipal infraction, or vice versa. Each day
that a violation remains is a separate violation. (Ord. 18-33, 11-5-2018)
7-2-3: SKATEBOARDS:
   A.   Definition: A "skateboard" is a device consisting of a board made of
any material onto which wheels are attached and upon which persons propel
themselves.
   B.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to ride skateboards on any
sidewalk, street, alley or upon any parking lot open to the public, at any time
within the confines of the Whitefish Business District more specifically
described as follows:
Baker Avenue from Railway Street to the Whitefish River Bridge
Central Avenue from Depot Street to Fourth Street
Depot Street from Central Avenue to Spokane Avenue
Railway Street from Lupfer Avenue to Spokane Avenue
Spokane Avenue from Depot Street to Fourth Street
First Street from Lupfer Avenue to Spokane Avenue
Second Street from Spokane Avenue to Lupfer Avenue
Third Street from Spokane Avenue to Lupfer Avenue
Fourth Street from Lupfer Avenue to Spokane Avenue
Whitefish City Library, including the grounds and all parking designated for
use by library patrons or employees
(Ord. 98-07, 7-20-1998)
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
the maximum fine permitted in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any person who violates this section shall be deemed to
have committed a Municipal infraction and shall be assessed a civil penalty of
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) or the maximum civil penalty
permitted in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC PARKS AND GROUNDS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Controlling Authority
7-3-2: Use Of Public Parks And Playgrounds
7-3-3: Animal Restrictions
7-3-4: Disorderly And Disruptive Conduct
7-3-5: Alcoholic Beverages
7-3-6: Advertisements And Littering
7-3-7: Motor Vehicles
7-3-8: Sporting Activities
7-3-9: Vendors; Special Permits
7-3-10: City Beach
7-3-11: Erection Of Structures
7-3-1: CONTROLLING AUTHORITY:
All parks and public places now in existence or hereafter established within
the City are declared to be under the direction and control of the Board of
Park Commissioners 1  of the City in accordance with the ordinances of the City
and the laws of the State. (Ord. 117, 5-1-1916)
 
Notes
1 1. See
  title 2, chapter 2 of this Code.
7-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS:
City parks and public playgrounds shall be closed to public usage from eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M. each day, and no person shall
be within the boundaries of said City parks and public playgrounds between
these hours; provided, however, that during the ice skating season, the City
ice skating rink may remain open until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. Exceptions may
be granted by the Park Board. (Ord. 09-19, 10-19-2009)
7-3-3: ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Tethering Prohibited: No person shall tie or fasten any animal to any
fence, building, railing, tree, shrub or plant in or upon any such park or
public place. (Ord. 117, 5-1-1916)
   B.   Animals At Large:
      1.   No owner, keeper, attendant or harborer of any dog, cattle, horses,
mules, swine, sheep, goats, fowl or like animal shall allow or permit any such
animal in or upon the premises known as the City Beach and Park Area of
Whitefish, whether or not such animal is under his control by voice command,
under leash or any other controls (excepting herefrom service animals).
      2.   No owner, keeper, attendant or harborer of any dog, cattle, horses,
mules, swine, sheep, goats, fowl or like animal shall allow or permit any such
animal to go into any lake or waters of any public park, with the exception of
dogs at public dog parks.
      3.   No owner, keeper, attendant or harborer of any dog, cattle, horses,
mules, swine, sheep, goats, fowl or like animal shall allow or permit any such
animal in or upon any other public park within the City, not mentioned in
subsection B1 of this section, unless said animal is on a leash and lead and
attended by its owner or attendant, and subject to the prohibition provided in
subsection B4 of this section.
      4.   No owner, keeper, attendant or harborer of any dog, cattle, horses,
mules, swine, sheep, goats, fowl or like animal shall allow or permit any such
animal in or upon any public park within the City during any organized athletic
event, or special event authorized or permitted by the City (excepting herefrom
service animals), with the exception of dogs at public dog parks.
      5.   Any violation of any portion of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall also constitute a Municipal infraction. For each separate
incident, the City shall elect to treat the violation as a misdemeanor or a
Municipal infraction, but not both. If a violation is repeated, the City may
treat the initial violation as a misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a
Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to take up any animal or
animals known to be running at large in any park or public place and, under the
direction of the Superintendent, impound the same until the expense of keeping
is paid. (Ord. 19-06, 3-18-2019)
7-3-4: DISORDERLY AND DISRUPTIVE CONDUCT:
   A.   Prohibited Conduct: No threatening, profane, abusive, disorderly,
insulting or indecent language, conduct or behavior, nor any act tending to a
breach of the public peace shall be allowed in or upon any park or public
grounds, nor shall any person play games of chance, drink alcoholic beverages
or be drunk, or do any indecent or improper act therein.
   B.   Drunk Or Disorderly Conduct: Any drunk or disorderly person, or any
person doing any act injurious to the park or public places in which he then
is, or who is in the act of, violating any rules or regulations of the board of
park commissioners or any ordinances of the city, may be removed from such park
or public place by the keeper thereof, or by any police officer of the city.
(Ord. 117, 5-1-1916)
7-3-5: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Except as permitted in subsection C of this section, no person shall
use or consume any alcoholic beverages, and no person shall have in his
possession an open container of alcoholic beverage, while such person is in an
automobile or other vehicle while the same is parked or operated on any public
street, public alley or highway, or public place or area in the city, or while
such person is on any public street, sidewalk, alley, highway, or public place
or area in the city or public park; provided, however, that any alcoholic
beverages purchased inside any structure or enclosed space (as described below)
in the city from a person selling same lawfully at such place, in accordance
with a special license therefor, may be consumed at such place. For the
purposes of this section, "public place or area" shall include any outdoor
dining area, patio, porch, entryway, alcove, or similar space that: 1) is open
to the public; and 2) abuts any public street, sidewalk, alley, highway, or
other public place or area in the city, unless such space is enclosed by a
wall, fence, or other secure structure and capable of being completely closed
to the public.
   B.   Possession of any alcoholic beverages in an open container in such
prohibited places or areas designated in subsection A of this section shall
give rise to the presumption that such beverage is being used and consumed by
such person.
   C.   The use or consumption of alcoholic beverages and the possession of an
open container of an alcoholic beverage shall be lawful and permitted as
follows:
      1.   The consumption of alcoholic beverages in compliance with state law
on the Whitefish municipal golf course and driving range as regulated by the
Whitefish Lake golf club.
      2.   The consumption of beer and/or wine in any city park or park
facility (except the beach area at city beach) in compliance with state law
pursuant to a facilities permit issued to a private party or organization by
the director of the parks and recreation department, or in his or her absence,
an individual designated by the director.
The director of parks and recreation department may issue a permit allowing the
consumption of beer and/or wine to adult sports teams represented by a private
individual or organization for a single sports event or for a season, or to a
private individual or organization pursuant to a facilities application. The
director's refusal to issue such a permit may be appealed to the park board.
      3.   The consumption of beer and/or wine on any city property in
compliance with state law pursuant to a special event permit issued by the city
manager to: a) a private individual or organization not covered by subsection
C2 of this section, or b) to an organization(s) sponsoring a community event
that involves a neighborhoodwide or communitywide impact.
      4.   The consumption of alcoholic beverages in compliance with state law
on the surface waters of Whitefish Lake, excluding the public area known as
Whitefish city beach, the waters within two hundred feet (200') of Whitefish
city beach, and the roped swimming areas and docks. Consumption of alcoholic
beverages within Whitefish city beach and the adjoining city park shall be
regulated pursuant to subsection C2 of this section. (Ord. 05-34, 1-3-2006)
   D.   Any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this section, or failing to comply with any of the mandatory
requirements of this section, or failing to comply with the terms of a
facilities permit issued pursuant to this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished as set forth in the general penalty
provision, section
1-4-1 of this code. Any such violation or failure shall also constitute a
municipal infraction that shall be assessed pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
In addition, any such person found by the director of the parks and recreation
department to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of this
section, or failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this
section, or failing to comply with the terms of a facilities permit issued
pursuant to this section, shall, after notice and hearing, be prohibited from
using the facility at which such conduct occurred for the remainder of the
existing season, and for the following season. Prior to taking such action, the
director of the parks and recreation department shall provide at least fifteen
(15) days' written notice to such person, which notice shall identify the
conduct complained of and shall notify such person of the proposed prohibition
on the use of such facility. Such notice shall provide such person an
opportunity for a hearing before the director of the parks and recreation
department. Thereafter, the director of the parks and recreation department
shall render a written decision, which may be appealed, in writing, to the
board of park commissioners. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
7-3-6: ADVERTISEMENTS AND LITTERING:
   A.   Billposting: No person shall post, paste, paint or affix any placard,
bill, notice or sign upon any structure or thing within any part of any park or
public grounds.
   B.   Offensive Materials: No person shall place or suffer to remain in any
park or public grounds any goods, wares, merchandise or other articles in the
nature of an obstruction to the free use and enjoyment of the park or public
grounds; nor shall any person place any straw, dirt, chips, paper, shavings,
shells, ashes or other rubbish, whether offensive to health or not, in or upon
the same.
   C.   Littering: No person shall throw, deposit or leave any paper, article
or anything in the park or public grounds, except in the receptacles provided
for waste, and no person shall commit any nuisance in the park. (Ord. 117, 5-1-
1916)
7-3-7: MOTOR VEHICLES:
Any person who drives any automobile, truck, bus, motorcycle or snowmobile,
golf cart, ATV, UTV, aircraft, motorized watercraft, or any other vehicle or
conveyance, upon or over any of the improved public parks of the city, or upon
or over any boulevard in the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall
be deemed to have committed a municipal infraction. For each separate incident,
the city shall elect to treat the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal
infraction, but not both. If a violation is repeated, the city may treat the
initial violation as a misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal
infraction, or vice versa. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 22-03, 3-7-2022)
7-3-8: SPORTING ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Sleigh Riding, Tobogganing, Sledding And Skiing: Sleigh riding is
prohibited in public parks. Tobogganing, sledding and skiing are allowed in
public parks. Tobogganing, sledding and skiing are prohibited upon or over any
of the boulevards, streets or alleys of the city. (Ord. 188, 1-19-1926; amd.
Ord. A-214, 3-5-1973; Ord. 87-6, 6-1-1987)
   B.   Bicycles, Skateboards And In-Line Skates: The riding of bicycles and
the use of skateboards and in-line skates (rollerblades) within the boundaries
of the city beach park and tennis courts areas of the city is hereby prohibited
and declared unlawful as hazardous and dangerous to the immediate preservation
of the public peace, health and safety of all others who may use said park
areas for the purpose of their creation and dedication as a city beach park and
tennis courts. (Ord. 93-5, 5-3-1993)
   C.   Recreational Equipment At Dave Olseth Memorial Skateboard Park: Only
skateboards, in-line skates, snowboards, snow skates, and skis may be used
within the Dave Olseth Memorial Skateboard Park, located at the city's Armory
Park. Any other type of recreational equipment, including, but not limited to,
bicycles, is hereby prohibited and declared unlawful as hazardous and dangerous
to the immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety of those
using the skateboard park, and harmful to the skateboard park facilities. (Ord.
06-09, 4-17-2006)
7-3-9: VENDORS; SPECIAL PERMITS:
Vendors of any kind or nature are hereby prohibited and it is declared unlawful
for such vendors to hawk or sell or attempt to sell any goods, wares,
merchandise, food or services within the boundaries of any of the city's public
parks, and the waters within two hundred feet (200') of Whitefish City Beach,
and the designated swimming areas and docks, except by permit authorized and
obtained from the director of the parks and recreation department, or in his or
her absence, an individual designated by the director. The director's refusal
to issue such a permit may be appealed to the park board, and an unsuccessful
applicant shall be informed of the right to appeal to the Park Board. If a
vendor's proposal is part of a larger event that includes other proposed
vendors and that will include nonpark land, for which the City Manager is
authorized to consider a special event permit, then the vendor's proposal shall
be determined in connection with the City Manager's consideration of a special
event permit. (Ord. 15-06, 5-18-2015)
7-3-10: CITY BEACH:
   A.   The following rules apply at City Beach:
      1.   No dogs allowed on beach or park area.
      2.   No lifeguards on duty. Swim at your own risk. No diving off floating
dock.
      3.   All children twelve (12) and younger must be directly supervised by
an adult.
      4.   No fishing, swimming or sunbathing on boat launch dock.
      5.   No skateboards, skating or biking on the sidewalks of the park.
      6.   No smoking, alcohol or glass containers allowed.
      7.   Comply with the no wake zone within two hundred feet (200') of the
boat launch.
      8.   No commercial vending within two hundred feet (200') of the beach,
swimming area and docks.
      9.   No fireworks.
      10.   Help us have a safe, clean and friendly City Beach.
   B.   Violation of the following rules shall constitute a Municipal
infraction that shall be assessed pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this Code:
      1.   No dogs allowed on beach area or park area.
      2.   No skateboards, skating or biking on the sidewalks of the park.
      3.   No smoking, alcohol or glass containers allowed.
      4.   No commercial vending within two hundred feet (200') of the beach,
swimming area and docks.
      5.   No fireworks.
      6.   Parking violations, as signed.
      7.   No beaching or mooring of motorized watercraft, except for personal
watercrafts in designated locations.
Violation of the above rules may also constitute a misdemeanor as set forth in
other parts of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to
treat the violation as a Municipal infraction or misdemeanor, but not both.
   C.   Pursuant to the authority granted by Montana Code Annotated section 7-
1-4150(4), the City authorizes a City employee known as the "City Beach ranger"
to enforce the City Beach rules and the other provisions of this Code and to
issue civil citations to persons who commit Municipal infractions at City
Beach. Such authorization does not prohibit any other law enforcement officer
with jurisdiction from issuing civil or criminal citations at City Beach. (Ord.
17-03, 3-6-2017; amd. Ord. 22-03, 3-7-202)
7-3-11: ERECTION OF STRUCTURES:
No person shall, in any park or other public grounds, erect, maintain, use or
occupy any tent, lodge, shelter, structure or unattended installation or
display. The following are exempt from this prohibition: a) City structures and
installations; and b) other installations or displays authorized in conjunction
with a special event when a permit has been issued by the City. (Ord. 19-05, 2-
4-2019)
CHAPTER 4
SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Definition
7-4-3: Permit Required
7-4-4: Exemptions
7-4-5: Application
7-4-6: Review Process
7-4-7: Cost Recovery For Special Events
7-4-8: Insurance
7-4-9: Indemnity
7-4-10: Time Requirements
7-4-11: Appeal
7-4-12: Penalty
7-4-1: PURPOSE:
The City recognizes community events may provide cultural enrichment, promote
economic vitality, enhance community identity, and create funding opportunities
for service organizations. The purpose of this chapter is to establish a
coordinated process for managing community events held on City property to
protect the health and safety of event patrons, residents, workers, and other
visitors, and to regulate competing uses of City property. It is also the
City's intent to protect the rights of people to engage in expressive
activities in public places and to establish reasonable time, place and manner
regulation of such activities. This chapter is further intended to create
mechanisms for cost recovery that allow the City to recoup some of the costs
associated with community events but which do not unduly impact the viability
of events. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-2017)
7-4-2: DEFINITION:
"Expressive activity" as used in this chapter means conduct that is protected
by the United States or Montana Constitutions, the sole or principal object of
which is the expression, dissemination, or communication by verbal, visual,
literary, or auditory means of opinions, views or ideas and for which no fee or
donation is charged or required as a condition of participation in or
attendance at such activity. Expressive activity does not include commercial
events, sports events, fundraising events, or events the principal purpose of
which is entertainment. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-2017)
7-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A special event permit must be obtained from the City Manager, or designee, for
the following events:
   A.   Any event that involves assembling or traveling in unison on any public
street, highway, alley, sidewalk or other public way owned, controlled, or
maintained by the City and which either: 1) will impede, obstruct, impair or
interfere with the free use of such public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, or
other public way owned, controlled, or maintained by the City; or 2) will not
comply with normal or usual traffic regulations or controls.
   B.   Any event on property owned, controlled, or maintained property by the
City involving more than seventy five (75) people which does not meet the
requirements of subsection A of this section.
   C.   Any event that requires temporary waiver of the City's ordinance
prohibiting consumption of alcoholic beverages, or possession of open
containers of alcoholic beverages, on public property as set forth in
subsection
7-3-5C3 of this title.
   D.   Any event on City park property requires additional approval from the
City Parks and Recreation Department if it involves the consumption of
alcoholic beverages, physical alteration to park property, or vending/
solicitation. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-2017)
7-4-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities are exempt from the special event permit requirement:
   A.   Funeral processions.
   B.   Lawful picketing on sidewalks when the number of participants does not
substantially impede, obstruct, impair or interfere with the free use of the
sidewalk or the conduct of business.
   C.   Activities conducted by a governmental agency acting within its scope
of authority.
   D.   Spontaneous events involving solely expressive activity which are
occasioned by news or affairs coming into public knowledge less than forty
eight (48) hours prior to such event may be conducted on City park property
without a special event permit.
      1.   The event shall be conducted on park property that is not occupied
by another special event.
      2.   If practicable, the organizers of the event should give notice at
least six (6) hours prior to the event to the City Manager of the date and time
of the event and provide an estimate of the approximate number of persons who
will be participating so that the City may assess the need for additional
public services.
      3.   The organizers of the event shall submit a statement to the City
Manager setting forth the purpose of the event prior to the event, if
practicable, but no later than twenty four (24) hours after the event's
conclusion.
      4.   The consumption of alcoholic beverages, physical alteration to park
property, and vending/solicitation are prohibited at spontaneous events. (Ord.
17-23, 8-21-2017)
7-4-5: APPLICATION:
   A.   To receive a special event permit, the applicant must submit a special
event application to the City Manager, or designee, on a form approved by the
City. The applicant must provide the following information:
      1.   The name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the event
organizer.
      2.   A certification that the event organizer shall be financially
responsible for the cost of departmental services, if applicable.
      3.   A statement of the purpose of the special event.
      4.   A statement of any fees to be charged to participants or spectators
in connection with the special event.
      5.   The proposed location of the special event including a plan
depicting the placement of temporary structures or facilities on public
property or public rights-of-way and, if the event is a march, parade or
process, a map of the proposed route.
      6.   The date and times when the special event is to be conducted.
      7.   The approximate times when assembly for, and disbanding of, the
special event is to take place.
      8.   Insurance information, if applicable.
      9.   Whether the applicant is requesting any special signage (to be
provided by applicant).
      10.   Whether the event will include any music, public address system, or
amplified sound.
      11.   Whether the applicant will provide any portable toilets.
      12.   Provisions for trash removal and clean up, if necessary.
      13.   Whether any alcohol will be served at the event and the location of
the premises, a plan for controlling the premises, and a catering permit, if
applicable.
      14.   The anticipated attendance at the event.
      15.   Whether provisions will need to be made for public safety and the
preservation of public property such as traffic/pedestrian control, fire
safety, the closure of streets or intersections, the diverting of traffic, etc.
      16.   Any other information reasonably required by the City Manager.
   B.   The City Manager may refer the application to such City departments or
personnel as he or she deems necessary for review, evaluation, investigation
and recommendations regarding approval or disapproval of the application.
   C.   An application must be submitted in accordance with the time limits set
forth in section
7-4-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-2017)
7-4-6: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   The City Manager shall issue a special event permit if he or she
determines the following criteria have been met. Provided, however, such
criteria shall not be applied in a manner that will unreasonably restrict
expressive activity or other activity protected by the Montana or the United
States Constitutions.
      1.   The preparation for, the conduct of and the conclusion of the
proposed event will not unreasonably burden City resources necessary to
preserve the public's use of the street(s) in the area contiguous to the street
(s) or other City property being used for the event.
      2.   The preparation for, the conduct of, and the conclusion of the
proposed event will not unduly impede, obstruct, or interfere with the
operation of emergency vehicles or equipment in or through the permit area or
adversely affect the City's ability to perform Municipal functions or furnish
services in the vicinity of the permit area.
      3.   The proposed event does not otherwise present a substantial or
unwarranted health, safety, noise, or traffic hazard.
      4.   The proposed event will be of a nature and size appropriate to the
proposed venue or site and will occur during approved hours for that venue or
site.
      5.   The proposed event will not cause other adverse impacts on health or
safety to surrounding residential or commercial uses, which cannot be
effectively mitigated.
      6.   The applicant has obtained all permits required elsewhere in this
Code or by other applicable laws, rules, or regulations.
   B.   The City Manager may place reasonable conditions on any special event
permit concerning the time, place or manner of holding the event as is
necessary to coordinate multiple uses of City property, assure preservation of
City property, prevent dangerous, unlawful, or impermissible uses, and protect
the safety of persons and property. Provided, however, such conditions shall
not be imposed in a manner that will unreasonably restrict expressive activity
or other activity protected by the Montana or the United States Constitutions.
Conditions the City Manager may impose include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Establishment of an assembly or disbanding area for a parade or like
event.
      2.   Accommodation of an event's pedestrian and vehicular traffic,
including restricting events to City sidewalks, portions of a City street, or
other public right-of-way and implementation of a parking or transportation
plan.
      3.   Conditions designed to avoid or lessen interference with public
safety functions and/or emergency service access.
      4.   Number and type of vehicles, animals, or structures to be displayed
or used in the event and their locations.
      5.   Provision and use of traffic cones or barricades.
      6.   Provision or operation of sanitary facilities, including handicap
accessible sanitary facilities.
      7.   Provision of a waste management plan, and the cleanup and
restoration of the site of the event.
      8.   Use of sound amplification equipment, and restrictions on the amount
of noise generated by motors and other equipment used in the course of the
event.
      9.   Manner of providing notice of permit conditions to permit
participants and those businesses or residents who may be directly affected by
the conduct of the event.
      10.   Reasonable designation of alternate sites, times, dates, or modes
for exercising expressive activity.
      11.   Obtaining of any and all business licenses or other necessary
permits required by this Code for the sale of food, beverage or other goods or
services at the event.
      12.   Manner by which alcohol sales and service, if any, shall be
conducted at the event.
      13.   Limitations on the use of spray paint or chalk paint as directional
cues for participants.
      14.   Provisions for public safety and the preservation of public
property such as traffic/pedestrian control, fire safety, the closure of
streets or intersections, the diverting of traffic, etc.
The City Manager shall provide the applicant a written explanation for any
decision that imposes conditions on the special event permit.
   C.   The City Manager shall deny an application for a special event permit
or revoke a permit if the City Manager finds any of the following:
      1.   One (1) or more of the approval criteria specified in subsection
 7-4-5A of this chapter is not met.
      2.   The applicant has knowingly made a false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of fact to the City in the application process.
      3.   The application does not contain the information required by this
chapter.
      4.   The application does not satisfy the requirements of this chapter.
      5.   The applicant has damaged City property and has not paid in full for
such damage or has other outstanding and unpaid debts related to a prior
special event permit issued by the City.
      6.   The applicant has failed to meet conditions and operate within the
parameters of a previous special event permit granted by the City.
The City Manager shall provide the applicant a written explanation for any
denial of a special event permit.
   D.   In deciding whether to approve an application for a special event
permit, no consideration will be given to the message of the event or activity,
the content of speech, the identity or associational relationships of the
applicant, or to any assumptions or predictions as to the amount of hostility
which may be aroused in the public by the content of speech or message conveyed
by the event or activity. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-2017)
7-4-7: COST RECOVERY FOR SPECIAL EVENTS:
   A.   The City Manager shall charge the applicant for a special event permit
an administrative processing fee as established by the City Council by
resolution.
   B.   If the event involves solely expressive activity, the City Manager
shall waive the administrative processing fee for an indigent person that
cannot pay for such fees. An indigent person may include, but is not limited
to, a person who is eligible to receive, or is receiving, public assistance. An
organization in which a majority of the members are indigent may also be
eligible for waiver. The person or organization is required to apply for
indigent status at the time of permit application. The person or organization
is required to provide such information and documentation as may be reasonably
necessary for the City Manager to verify such status. The City Manager may deny
an application for indigent status if the applicant fails to timely provide the
information and documentation requested.
   C.   The City Manager shall charge the applicant a park/facility fee if the
special event involves the exclusive and/or commercial use of a City park or
facility, if it involves vending/solicitation, or if it involves physically
altering the City park or facility. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-2017)
7-4-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   The applicant for a special event permit must possess or obtain
comprehensive general liability insurance with single limit coverage of at
least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) to protect the City from liability
for damage on account of bodily injury and/or property damage arising from the
event.
      1.   The insurance policy must name the City, its officers, employees,
and agents as an additional insured.
      2.   The insurance coverage must be maintained for the duration of the
event.
      3.   Notice of cancellation of the insurance must be provided immediately
to the City.
      4.   The certificate of insurance must be submitted to the City Manager
with the application for a special event permit.
   B.   The City Manager shall waive the insurance requirement if the event
involves solely expressive activity and:
      1.   The applicant is an indigent person that cannot pay for the required
insurance. An indigent person may include, but is not limited to, a person who
is eligible to receive, or is receiving, public assistance. An organization in
which a majority of the members are indigent may also be eligible for waiver.
The person or organization is required to apply for indigent status at the time
of permit application. The person or organization is required to provide such
information and documentation as may be reasonably necessary for the City
Manager to verify such status. The City Manager may deny an application for
indigent status if the applicant fails to timely provide the information and
documentation requested; or
      2.   It is objectively impossible to obtain insurance coverage as
demonstrated by the applicant's submittal of two (2) statements from
independent licensed insurance brokers stating that the insurance is
unavailable. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-2017)
7-4-9: INDEMNITY:
Each applicant shall execute a hold harmless agreement in a form approved by
the City agreeing to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City against
losses and liabilities incurred from the conduct of the applicant or its
officers, employees, and agents. The agreement must be submitted to the City
Manager with the application for a special event permit. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-
2017)
7-4-10: TIME REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   An application for a special event permit for an event involving solely
expressive activity must be complete and submitted to the City Manager at least
three (3) days before the proposed event is to be held unless the event
qualifies for a spontaneous event exemption under subsection
7-4-4D of this chapter.
   B.   An application for a special event permit for all other events must be
complete and submitted to the City Manager at least fifteen (15) days before
the proposed event is to be held. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-2017)
7-4-11: APPEAL:
Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of the City Manager with respect to a
special event permit may appeal such decision to the City Council by filing a
written notice of such appeal with the City Clerk within five (5) business days
of the decision. The City Council shall decide the appeal at its next regularly
scheduled meeting or may call a special meeting to decide the appeal. The City
Council's decision shall be final except for judicial review. (Ord. 17-23, 8-
21-2017)
7-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person who intentionally violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as shall be punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 17-23, 8-21-2017)
CHAPTER 5
GROUNDS AND VEGETATION
SECTION:
7-5-1: Title
7-5-2: Purpose
7-5-3: Definitions
7-5-4: Authority Of Director Of Parks And Recreation And Appeal To The Board Of
Park Commissioners
7-5-5: Damage To Public Trees Prohibited
7-5-6: Protection Of Trees
7-5-7: Removal Of Public Trees
7-5-8: Public Protection
7-5-9: Penalty
7-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and be cited and referred to as the CITY OF
WHITEFISH TREE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 17-34, 12-4-2017)
7-5-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to preserve and enhance the City's natural
environment in its public places. This is accomplished through the
preservation, protection, and planting of trees and other landscape material,
particularly those trees recognized herein as canopy and understory trees, and
the provision of natural and/or planted buffers. In addition, trees are
recognized for their importance in shading and cooling, noise and wind
reduction, prevention of soil erosion, production of oxygen, dust filtration,
fostering air quality through carbon dioxide absorption, providing wildlife
habitat, and contributing to the aesthetic and economic value of real property.
(Ord. 17-34, 12-4-2017; amd. Ord. 22-08, 6-6-2022)
7-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
content, words used in the present tense include future, words in plural
include the singular and words in the singular include plural. The word "shall"
is mandatory and not merely directory.
BOULEVARD: That part of the public right-of-way not covered by sidewalk or
other paving, lying between the property line and the curb line of any street.
(In the absence of a curb, the curb line of a street shall be deemed to be the
edge of that portion of the public right-of-way maintained and open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.)
CANOPY TREE: A tree that, under normal forest conditions, will compose the top
layer or canopy of vegetation and generally will reach a mature height of
greater than forty feet (40').
CITY: The City of Whitefish, Flathead County, State of Montana.
CLEARING: The removal of vegetation from a property, whether by cutting or
other means.
DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION: The designated official for the City of
Whitefish assigned to carry out the enforcement of this chapter.
DRIPLINE: A line on the ground established by a vertical plane extending from a
tree's outermost branch tips down to the ground, i.e., the line enclosing the
area directly beneath the tree's crown from which rainfall would drip.
GRADING: The placement, removal, or movement of earth by use of mechanical
equipment on a property.
OVERSTORY: The highest layer of vegetation in a forest, usually forming the
canopy.
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT: The designated department for the City of
Whitefish under whose jurisdiction public trees fall.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or company of
any kind.
PROPERTY LINE: The outer edge of a street or highway right-of-way and other
City owned properties.
PROPERTY OWNER: The person owning such property as recorded at the Clerk and
Recorder's Office of Flathead County, State of Montana.
PUBLIC PLACES: This shall include all other grounds owned by the City of
Whitefish.
PUBLIC TREES: All ornamental and native trees growing on any street or any
public places.
SCREENING: A method of shielding or obscuring one abutting or nearby structure
or use from another by opaque fencing, walls, berms, densely planted
vegetation, or the like.
SHRUB: A woody plant of relatively low height, as distinguished from a tree by
having several stems rather than a single trunk.
STREET: The entire width of every public way or right-of-way including
sidewalks and bike lanes when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in
diameter within the Tree's crown to such a degree as to remove the normal tree
canopy and disfigure the tree.
TREE: Any self-supporting woody perennial plant, usually having a main stem or
trunk and many branches, and at maturity normally attaining a trunk diameter
greater than three inches (3") at any point and a height over ten feet (10').
TREE PROTECTION ZONE (TPZ): The Tree Protection Zone is an area where
construction activities are prohibited or restricted to prevent injury to
public trees, especially during pre-construction and construction, and includes
the Critical Root Zone and/or beyond. The TPZ shall include no less than the
total area beneath the tree canopy or Critical Root Zone which is defined by
the drip line of the tree or group of trees collectively.
UNDERSTORY TREE: A tree that, under normal forest conditions, grows to maturity
beneath overstory trees and will generally reach a mature height of at least
ten feet (10') but less than forty feet (40'). (Ord. 17-34, 12-4-2017; amd.
Ord. 22-08, 6-6-2022)
7-5-4: AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION AND APPEAL TO THE BOARD OF
PARK COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Work On Public Trees: All work on public trees will comply with this
chapter.
   B.   Authority: The Director of Parks and Recreation or designated
representative shall have the authority and jurisdiction of regulating the
planting, maintenance and removal of public trees on streets and other publicly
owned property to ensure safety and to preserve the aesthetics of such public
places.
   C.   Duty: The Director of Parks and Recreation or designated representative
shall have the authority, and it will be their duty, to supervise or inspect
all work performed under the terms of this chapter.
   D.   Director Of Parks And Recreation's Authority In Granting Permits: The
Director of Parks and Recreation or designated representative shall have the
authority to affix reasonable conditions to the granting of a permit in
accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   E.   Permit Required For Work On Public Trees: No person shall plant, spray,
perform major pruning, remove or otherwise disturb any public tree without
written permission issued by the Director of Parks and Recreation or his
designated representative. The person receiving the permission shall abide by
the arboricultural specifications and standards of practice as outlined by this
chapter. Public liability insurance may be required at the discretion of the
Director of Parks and Recreation and will be decided on a case-by-case basis.
   F.   Removal Of Public Trees, Replacement, And Allocation Of Costs:
      1.   No person or property owner is to remove a public tree from the
boulevard for the purpose of construction, or for any other reason, without
first obtaining written permission from the Director of Parks and Recreation.
      2.   Public trees removed under subsection F1 of this section must be
replaced as deemed appropriate by the Director of Parks and Recreation. The
person or property owner shall bear the cost of removal and replacement of all
public trees removed, unless trees are being removed at the request of the
City. Replacement value will be calculated by the Trunk Formula Technique
outlined in "The Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers Guide for Plant
Appraisal," which extrapolates the cost to replace that largest commonly
available nursery plant to the size of the plant being appraised.
   G.   Private Trees Interfering With Public Right-Of-Way: The limbs or
branches of a tree or shrub may not extend over any public sidewalk at a height
of less than seven feet (7') or ten feet (10') over a bike lane. A notice will
be sent to the property owner of limbs in violation. Property owners shall have
two (2) weeks to clear the right-of-way. After two (2) weeks, the City may
contract for or do the work and the total costs thereof will be added to the
taxes levied against the real property of the owner(s).
   H.   Appeal To Board Of Park Commissioners: Any person may make a written
appeal from any ruling or order made by the Director of Parks and Recreation to
the Board of Park Commissioners, who shall make a final decision. (Ord. 17-34,
12-4-2017; amd. Ord. 22-08, 6-6-2022)
7-5-5: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC TREES PROHIBITED:
Unless specifically authorized by the Director of Parks and Recreation, it is
unlawful for any person to intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant, or
remove any public tree; attach any rope, wire, nails, signs, notices, or other
contrivance to any public tree; allow any gaseous liquid or solid substance
which is harmful to such trees to come in contact with them; or set fire or
permit any fire to burn when such fire or the heat thereof could injure any
portion of any public tree. (Ord. 17-34, 12-4-2017)
7-5-6: PROTECTION OF TREES:
   A.   All trees on any street or other publicly owned property near any
excavation or construction of any building, structure or street work, shall be
guarded with a substantial fence, frame, or box. All building material, dirt or
other debris shall be kept outside the barrier.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to excavate any ditches, tunnels,
trenches, or lay drive within the Tree Protection Zone of any public tree
without first obtaining written permission from the Director of Parks and
Recreation. Maintenance or repair work on existing underground utilities will
be permitted. Excavation for new utilities and structures within the Tree
Protection Zone of any public tree will not be permitted unless the Director of
Parks and Recreation gives written authorization.
   C.   It is unlawful, as a normal practice for any person, business, city
department or any other private or public entity to top any street tree, park
tree, or other tree located in a public area. Trees severely damaged by storms
or other obstructions where pruning practices are impractical may be exempted
from this ordinance at the determination of the Director of Parks and
Recreation or designated representative. (Ord. 17-34, 12-4-2017; amd. Ord. 22-
08, 6-6-2022)
7-5-7: REMOVAL OF PUBLIC TREES:
   A.   No trees shall be removed from public places unless they are dead,
diseased, constitute a hazard to life or property, are a public nuisance, or
because a revision of planting plans necessitates.
   B.   The trees on the North Course of the Whitefish Lake Golf Facility are
maintained and managed by the Whitefish Lake Golf Club, Inc., in accordance
with a memorandum of understanding between Whitefish Lake Golf Association and
the City. (Ord. 17-34, 12-4-2017)
7-5-8: PUBLIC PROTECTION:
To protect the public from danger, suitable street and sidewalk barriers,
highway cones, or signs must be used when pruning, removing or spraying trees.
Flashing signals or flares must be placed on all barriers or obstructions
remaining in the street after dark. All safety devices must conform to the
standards as set forth in "The Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices"
distributed by the Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department of
Transportation.
   A.   Stumps: The stumps of all removed public trees shall be cut to at least
eight inches (8") below the ground, the soil shall be replaced, and the area
leveled. If the area where the tree is removed is to be paved, the stump shall
be removed to meet general construction standards. In the event of a private
landowner wanting to remove a stump, they bear all the costs of its removal and
all damages to the sidewalk curb shall be repaired by and paid for by the
owner.
   B.   Spraying: Suitable precautions shall be taken to protect and warn the
public that spraying is being done to public trees. Spraying will be done only
for the control of specific diseases or insects, with the proper materials in
the necessary strength, and applied at the proper time to obtain the desired
control. All spraying practices shall conform to Federal, State, and local
regulations and must be performed by a pesticide applicator properly licensed
by the State of Montana, Department of Agriculture. (Ord. 17-34, 12-4-2017)
7-5-9: PENALTY:
   A.   Removal Of Violating Trees, Procedure: Anytime the public wants to
plant new vegetation in the City boulevard, they need to receive written
permission from the Parks and Recreation Department prior to planting. If the
public does not receive prior permission, the City will first notify the
property owner(s), in writing, of the City's intention to remove the vegetation
and give the property owner(s) a reasonable period of time (not to exceed 45
days) within which to remove the vegetation. If the property owner(s) does/do
not comply within the specified time, the City will cause the removal of the
vegetation and the total costs thereof will be added to the taxes levied
against the real property of the owner(s).
   B.   Criminal Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any
provisions of this chapter, or fails to comply with any provisions of this
chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers Guide
for Plant Appraisal value of the tree, or imprisonment for a period not
exceeding ninety (90) days, or both. Restitution may be required at the Judge's
discretion. (Ord. 17-34, 12-4-2017; amd. Ord. 22-08, 6-6-2022)
CHAPTER 6
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Applicability
7-6-3: Required Permits And Approvals
7-6-4: Small Cell Permit Application, Submittal And Review
7-6-5: Approvals And Denials; Notices
7-6-6: Standard Conditions Of Approval
7-6-7: Location Requirements
7-6-8: Design Standards
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth below:
ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT: Any equipment other than an antenna that is used in
conjunction with a small wireless facility, including but not limited to,
cabinets, optical converters, power amplifiers, radios, microcells, radio
units, fiber optic and coaxial cables, meters, power switches and related
equipment.
ANTENNA: The same as defined by the FCC in 47 CFR section 1.6002(b), as may be
amended or superseded, which defines the term as an apparatus designed for the
purpose of emitting radiofrequency radiation, to be operated or operating from
a fixed location pursuant to commission authorization, for the provision of
personal wireless service and any commingled information services.
COLLOCATION: The same as defined by the FCC in 47 CFR section 1.6002(g), as may
be amended or superseded, which defines the term as: a) mounting or installing
an antenna facility on a pre- existing structure; and/or b) modifying a
structure for the purpose of mounting or installing an antenna facility on that
structure.
CONCEALED: Camouflaging techniques that meet the design standards in section
7-6-8 of this chapter and integrate the transmission equipment into the
surrounding natural and/or built environment such that the average, untrained
observer cannot directly view the equipment but would likely recognize the
existence of the wireless facility or concealment technique.
DIRECTOR: Director of Public Works for the City of Whitefish or his/her
designee.
FCC: Federal Communications Commission.
FCC SHOT CLOCK: The presumptively reasonable time frame within which the City
must act on a small cell permit application, as defined by the FCC and as may
be amended from time to time.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: Wireless facilities that meet the following
conditions: a) the structure on which antenna facilities are mounted: 1) is
fifty feet (50') or less in height; or 2) is no more than ten percent (10%)
taller than other adjacent structures; or 3) is not extended to a height of
more than fifty feet (50') or by more than ten percent (10%) above its
preexisting height as a result of the collocation of new antenna facilities;
and b) each antenna associated with the deployment (excluding associated
equipment) is no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume; and c) all antenna
equipment associated with the facility (excluding antennas) are cumulatively no
more than twenty eight (28) cubic feet in volume.
STAND ALONE POLE: A pole installed by a wireless provider for use in connection
with a small wireless facility.
STRUCTURE: The same as defined by the FCC in 47 CFR section 1.6002(m), as may
be amended or superseded, which defines the term as a pole, tower, base
station, or other building, whether or not it has an existing antenna facility,
that is used or to be used for the provision of personal wireless service
(whether on its own or comingled with other types of services). (Ord. 19-09, 5-
20-2019)
7-6-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Except as expressly provided otherwise in this chapter, the provisions
in this chapter shall be applicable to all existing small wireless facilities
and all applications and requests for authorization to construct, install,
attach, operate, collocate, modify, reconstruct, relocate or otherwise deploy
small wireless facilities within the City's jurisdictional and territorial
boundaries within the public rights-of-way or on private property.
   B.   No person shall construct, install, attach, operate, collocate, modify,
reconstruct or relocate small wireless facilities within the City's
jurisdictional and territorial boundaries within the public rights-of-way or on
private property except pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 19-09, 5-20-2019)
7-6-3: REQUIRED PERMITS AND APPROVALS:
   A.   Small Cell Permit: A "small cell permit" is required for any small
wireless facility proposed on an existing, new or replacement support
structure.
   B.   Other Permits And Approvals: In addition to the small cell permit, the
applicant must obtain all other permits and regulatory approvals as may be
required by any other Federal, State or local government agencies, or utility,
which includes without limitation any permits and/or approvals issued by other
City departments or divisions.
   C.   Exemptions: Unless the work requires the closing of the public right-
of-way, a small cell permit is not required for:
      1.   Routine maintenance of a small wireless facility or support
structures;
      2.   The replacement of one small wireless facility with another small
wireless facility of substantially similar or smaller size; or
      3.   Non-substantial modifications that do not substantially change the
size or appearance of a small wireless facility or support structure.
   D.   Notice: A wireless provider must give notice to the Director of an
activity described in subsection C of this section at least five (5) business
days prior to conducting the activity. (Ord. 19-09, 5-20-2019)
7-6-4: SMALL CELL PERMIT APPLICATION, SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW:
   A.   Application: All applications for a small cell permit must contain the
following:
      1.   Form: An application form signed by the applicant or its authorized
representative;
      2.   Drawings: Construction drawings, prepared, signed and stamped by a
licensed engineer, that depict all the existing and proposed improvements,
equipment and conditions related to the proposed project and that:
         a.   Have cut sheets that contain the technical specifications for all
existing and proposed antennas and accessory equipment, which includes without
limitation the manufacturer, model number and physical dimensions;
         b.   Identify all structures within two hundred fifty feet (250') from
the proposed project site and call out such structures' overall height above
ground level;
         c.   Depict the applicant's plan for electric and other utilities,
which shall include the locations for all conduits, cables, wires, handholes,
junctions, transformers, meters, disconnect switches, and points of connection;
and
         d.   Demonstrate that proposed project will be in full compliance with
all applicable health and safety laws, regulations or other rules, which
includes without limitation all Building Codes, Electric Codes, local street
standards and specifications, and public utility regulations and orders.
      3.   Survey: For any small wireless facility proposed to be located
within the public right-of-way, the applicant must submit a survey prepared,
signed and stamped by a licensed engineer that identifies and depicts all
existing boundaries, encroachments and other structures within two hundred
fifty feet (250') from the proposed project site including without limitation
all:
         a.   Traffic lanes;
         b.   Private properties and property lines;
         c.   Above and below-grade utilities and related structures and
encroachments;
         d.   Fire hydrants, and other public safety infrastructure;
         e.   Streetlights, decorative poles, traffic signals and permanent
signage;
         f.   Sidewalks, driveways, parkways, curbs, gutters and storm drains;
         g.   Benches, trash cans, mailboxes, kiosks and other street
furniture; and
         h.   Existing trees, planters and other landscaping features.
      4.   Photo Simulations: The applicant shall submit site photographs and
photo simulations that show the existing location and proposed small wireless
facility in context from at least three (3) vantage points within the public
streets or other publicly accessible spaces, together with a vicinity map that
shows the proposed site location and the photo location for each vantage point.
      5.   Project Narrative And Justification: The applicant shall submit a
written statement that explains in plain factual detail whether and why the
proposed wireless facility qualifies as a "small wireless facility".
         a.   A complete written narrative analysis will state the applicable
standard and all the facts that allow the City to conclude the standard has
been met - bare conclusions not factually supported do not constitute a
complete written analysis.
         b.   As part of the written statement the applicant must also include
whether and why the proposed wireless facility meets each required finding for
issuance of a small cell permit.
      6.   Radiofrequency Compliance Report: The applicant shall submit a
radiofrequency exposure compliance report that certifies that the proposed
small wireless facility, as well as any collocated wireless facilities, will
comply with applicable Federal radiofrequency exposure standards and exposure
limits.
         a.   The radiofrequency report must be prepared and certified by an
engineer acceptable to the City.
         b.   The radiofrequency report must include the actual frequency and
power levels (in watts ERP) for all existing and proposed antennas at the site
and exhibits that show the location and orientation of all transmitting
antennas and the boundaries of areas with radiofrequency exposures in excess of
the uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the FCC)
and also the boundaries of areas with radiofrequency exposures in excess of the
controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC).
         c.   Each such boundary shall be clearly marked and identified for
every transmitting antenna at the project site.
      7.   Site Agreement: For any small wireless facility proposed to be
installed on any structure owned or controlled by the City and located within
the public rights-of-way, the applicant shall submit a partially-executed site
agreement on a form prepared by the City that states the terms and conditions
for such non- exclusive use by the applicant.
      8.   Title Report And Property Owner's Authorization: For any small
wireless facility proposed to be installed on any private property not owned or
controlled by the City, the applicant must submit:
         a.   A title report issued within thirty (30) days from the date the
applicant filed the application; and
         b.   If the applicant is not the property owner, a written
authorization signed by the property owner identified in the title report that
authorizes the applicant to submit and accept a small cell permit in connection
with the subject property.
      9.   Application Fee: The applicant shall submit the applicable small
cell permit application fee established by City Council resolution.
      10.   Applications And Forms: The Director is authorized to develop,
publish and from time to time update or amend permit application requirements,
forms, checklists, guidelines, informational handouts and other related
materials that the Director finds necessary, appropriate or useful for
processing any application governed under this chapter.
   B.   Submittal And Review:
      1.   Pre-Submittal Conferences:
         a.   The City strongly encourages, but does not require, applicants to
schedule and attend a pre-submittal conference with the Director for all
proposed projects that involve more than five (5) small wireless facilities.
         b.   This voluntary pre-submittal conference does not cause the FCC
shot clock to begin and is intended to streamline the review process through
informal discussion.
         c.   To mitigate unnecessary delays due to application incompleteness,
applicants are encouraged (but not required) to bring any draft applications or
other materials so that City staff may provide informal feedback and guidance
about whether such applications or other materials may be incomplete or
unacceptable.
      2.   Application Completeness Review: Within thirty (30) calendar days
after the Director receives a duly filed small cell permit application, the
Director must review the application for completeness and, if any application
does not contain all the required materials, send a written notice to the
applicant that identifies the missing or incomplete requirements.
      3.   Applications Deemed Withdrawn: To promote efficient review and
timely decisions, and to mitigate unreasonable delays or barriers to entry
caused by chronically incomplete applications, any application will be
automatically deemed withdrawn by the applicant when the applicant fails to
cure any deficiencies identified by the Director within sixty (60) calendar
days after written notice to the applicant of said deficiencies.
      4.   Batched Applications:
         a.   Applicants may submit up to five (5) individual applications for
a small cell permit in a batch only if the small wireless facilities in the
batch are proposed with substantially the same equipment in the same
configuration on the same support structure type.
         b.   Each application in a batch must meet all the requirements for a
complete application, which includes without limitation the application fee for
each application in the batch.
         c.   If any application in a batch is incomplete, the entire batch
shall be deemed incomplete.
         d.   If any application is withdrawn or deemed withdrawn from a batch,
the entire batch shall be deemed withdrawn.
         e.   If any application in a batch fails to meet the required findings
for approval, the entire batch shall be denied. (Ord. 19-09, 5-20-2019)
7-6-5: APPROVALS AND DENIALS; NOTICES:
   A.   Public Notice:
      1.   For all applications on private property, prior to any approval,
conditional approval or denial, public notice shall be mailed to all properties
and record owners and occupants of properties that are directly adjacent to the
project site.
      2.   The notice must contain:
         a.   A general project description;
         b.   The applicant's identification and contact information as
provided on the application submitted to the City;
         c.   A statement that the Director will act on the application without
a public hearing, but will for a minimum of ten (10) days from the date of the
notice accept written public comments that evaluate the application for
compliance with the standards in this chapter; and
         d.   A statement that the FCC requires the City to act on small
wireless facility applications, which includes any administrative appeals, in
sixty (60) days for collocation on existing structures and ninety (90) days for
new structures, unless the applicant voluntarily agrees to toll the timeframe
for review.
   B.   Administrative Review: Not less than ten (10) calendar days after the
public notice, the Director shall approve, conditionally approve or deny a
complete and duly filed small cell permit application without a public hearing.
   C.   Required Findings: The Director may approve or conditionally approve a
complete and duly filed application for a small cell permit when the Director
finds:
      1.   The proposed project meets the definition for a "small wireless
facility" as defined by the FCC;
      2.   The proposed project would be in the most preferred location
provided in subsection
 7-6-7A of this chapter or the applicant has demonstrated with clear and
convincing evidence in the written record that any more-preferred location(s)
within five hundred feet (500') would be technically infeasible;
      3.   The proposed project would not be located on a prohibited support
structure identified in subsection
7-6-7D of this chapter;
      4.   The proposed project would be on the most preferred support
structure provided in subsections
7-6-7B and C of this chapter or the applicant has demonstrated with clear and
convincing evidence in the written record that any more-preferred support
structure(s) within five hundred feet (500') would be technically infeasible;
      5.   The proposed project complies with all applicable design standards
in this chapter;
      6.   The applicant has demonstrated that the proposed project will comply
with all applicable health and safety regulations, which include without
limitation the Americans With Disabilities Act and all FCC regulations and
guidelines for human exposure to radiofrequency emissions; and
      7.   Any public notices required for the application have been given.
   D.   Decision Notices: Within five (5) calendar days after the Director acts
on a small cell permit application or before the FCC shot clock expires
(whichever occurs first), the Director shall notify the applicant of such
decision by written notice. If the Director denies the application (with or
without prejudice), the written notice must contain the reasons for the
decision.
   E.   Appeals: Any decision to conditionally approve or deny a small wireless
facility shall be appealable by the applicant to the City Council.
      1.   Appeals must be filed within five (5) working days of a decision
having been rendered.
      2.   Any such appeal must include a letter identifying the name, address
and contact information for the appellant and provides the reasons for the
appeal.
      3.   Any such appeal shall be subject to any appeal fees established by
resolution. (Ord. 19-09, 5-20-2019)
7-6-6: STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   General Conditions: In addition to all other conditions that may be
adopted by the Director for a small cell permit, all such permits issued under
this chapter will be automatically subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Permit Term: This small cell permit will automatically expire three
(3) years and one day from its issuance.
      2.   Permit Renewal: Not more than one year before this small cell permit
expires, the permittee may apply for permit renewal.
         a.   The permittee must demonstrate that the subject small wireless
facility complies with all the conditions of approval associated with this
small cell permit and all applicable provisions in this Code that exist at the
time the decision to renew or not renew the permit is rendered.
         b.   The Director may modify or amend the conditions on a case-by-
case basis as may be necessary or appropriate.
         c.   Upon renewal, this small cell permit will automatically expire
three (3) years and one day from its issuance.
      3.   Post Installation Certification: Within sixty (60) calendar days
after the permittee commences full, unattended operations of a small wireless
facility approved or deemed-approved, the permittee shall provide the Director
with documentation reasonably acceptable to the Director that the small
wireless facility has been installed and/or constructed in strict compliance
with the approved construction drawings and photo simulations.
      4.   Site Maintenance: The permittee shall keep the site, which includes
without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, structures, access
routes, fences and landscape features, in a condition that is like, new, or
similar to that which existed immediately prior to installation of the small
wireless facility in accordance with the approved construction drawings and all
conditions in the small cell permit.
      5.   Build-Out Period:
         a.   This small cell permit will automatically expire six (6) months
from the approval date (the "build-out period") unless the permittee obtains
all other permits and approvals required to construct and/or operate the
approved small wireless facility which includes without limitation any permits
or approvals required by any Federal, State or local agencies with jurisdiction
over the subject property, the small wireless facility or its use.
         b.   If this build-out period expires, the small cell permit
automatically terminates and the City will not extend the build- out period or
the permit, but the permittee may resubmit a complete application, including
all application fees, for the same or substantially similar project.
      6.   Compliance With Laws:
         a.   The permittee must maintain compliance at all times with all
Federal, State and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that
carry the force of law applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the
small wireless facility or any use or activities in connection with the use
authorized in this small cell permit, which includes without limitation any
laws applicable to human exposure to radiofrequency emissions.
         b.   The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this
obligation is intended to be broadly construed and that no other specific
requirements in these conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise
lessen the permittee's obligations to maintain compliance with all laws.
         c.   No failure or omission by the City to timely notice, prompt or
enforce compliance with any applicable provision in this Code, this chapter,
any permit, any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation, shall be
deemed to relieve, waive or lessen the permittee's obligation to comply in all
respects with all applicable provisions in this Code, this chapter, any permit,
any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation.
      7.   Adverse Impacts On Other Properties: The permittee must use all
reasonable efforts to avoid any and all unreasonable, undue or unnecessary
adverse impacts on nearby properties that may arise from the permittee's or its
authorized personnel's construction, installation, operation, modification,
maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities on or about the site.
      8.   Indemnity: The permittee and, if applicable, the property owner (if
not on City-owned infrastructure) upon which the small wireless facility is
installed shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, City Council and
the City's boards, commissions, agents, officers, officials, employees and
volunteers (collectively, the "indemnitees") from any and all: a) damages,
liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses and from any and all claims,
demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings ("claims") brought
against the indemnitees to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void
or annul the City's approval of the small cell permit, and b) other claims of
any kind or form, whether for personal injury, death or property damage, that
arise from or in connection with the permittee's or its agents', directors',
officers', employees', contractors', subcontractors', licensees' or customers'
acts or omissions in connection with this small cell permit or the small
wireless facility.
      9.   Performance Bond: Before the City issues any permits required to
commence construction in connection with the small cell permit, the permittee
shall post a performance bond from a surety and in a form acceptable to the
Director in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost to remove the
improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate from a
qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The
performance bond shall expressly survive the expiration, revocation or other
termination of this small cell permit to the extent required to completely
remove the equipment and improvements, restore the affected areas and perform
all other obligations in accordance with this condition.
      10.   Permit Revocation: Any permit granted under this chapter may be
revoked in accordance with the following:
         a.   The Director may initiate revocation proceedings when the
Director has information that the facility may not be in compliance with all
applicable laws, which includes without limitation, any permit in connection
with the facility and any associated conditions with such permit(s).
         b.   The Director must issue a written notice to the permittee that
specifies:
            (1)   The facility;
            (2)   The violation(s) to be corrected;
            (3)   The timeframe in which the permittee must correct such
violation(s); and
            (4)   That, in addition to all other rights and remedies the City
may pursue, the City may initiate revocation proceedings for failure to correct
such violation(s).
         c.   A permit granted under this chapter may be revoked only by the
City Council after a duly noticed public hearing.
         d.   The City Council may revoke a permit when it finds substantial
evidence in the record to show that the facility is not in compliance with any
applicable laws, which includes without limitation, any permit in connection
with the facility and any associated conditions with such permit(s).
         e.   Any decision by the City Council to revoke or not revoke a permit
shall be final and not subject to any further appeals.
         f.   Within five (5) business days after the City Council adopts a
resolution to revoke a permit, the Director must provide the permittee with a
written notice that specifies the revocation and the reasons for such
revocation.
      11.   Abandoned Wireless Facilities: The small wireless facility
authorized under the small cell permit will be deemed abandoned if not operated
for any continuous six-month period.
         a.   Within ninety (90) days after a small wireless facility is
abandoned or deemed abandoned, the permittee and/or property owner must
completely remove the small wireless facility and all related improvements and
shall restore all affected areas to a condition that is like, new or similar to
that which existed immediately prior to installation of the small wireless
facility.
         b.   In the event that neither the permittee nor the property owner
complies with the removal and restoration obligations under this condition
within said 90-day period, the City shall have the right (but not the
obligation) to perform such removal and restoration with or without notice, and
the permittee and property owner shall be jointly and severally liable for all
costs and expenses incurred by the City in connection with such removal and/or
restoration activities.
      12.   Landscaping: The permittee must replace any landscape features
damaged or displaced by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance
or other work performed by the permittee or at the permittee's direction on or
about the site.
      13.   Radiofrequency Emission Monitoring: At least two (2) times
annually, beginning from the date the small cell permit is issued, the
permittee must submit a radiofrequency exposure monitoring report to the City
that certifies that the small wireless facility is continuing to comply with
the applicable Federal standards for emissions exposure. The report must be
prepared by a private, independent third-party and paid for by the permittee.
   B.   Conditions For Small Wireless Facilities In The Public Rights- Of-Way:
In addition to all conditions in subsection A of this section, all small cell
permits for small wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way issued under
this chapter will be automatically subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Future Undergrounding Programs:
         a.   If other public utilities or communications providers in the
public rights-of-way underground their facilities in the segment of the public
rights-of-way where the permittee's small wireless facility is located, the
permittee must underground its equipment except the antennas and any other
equipment that must be placed above ground to function.
         b.   Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee's sole cost and
expense.
      2.   Rearrangement And Relocation:
         a.   The City, in its sole discretion and at any time, may change any
street grade, width or location and may add, remove or otherwise change any
improvements in, on, under or along any street owned by the City or any other
public agency.
         b.   If the Director determines that any City work will require the
permittee's small wireless facility located in the public rights- of-way to be
rearranged and/or relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense,
do or cause to be done all things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement
and/or relocation.
         c.   If the permittee fails or refuses to either permanently or
temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the permittee's small wireless facility
within a reasonable time after the Director's notice, the City may (but will
not be obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at
the permittee's sole cost and expense.
         d.   The City may exercise its rights to rearrange or relocate the
permittee's small wireless facility without prior notice to permittee when
Director determines that the City work is immediately necessary to protect
public health or safety. (Ord. 19-09, 5-20-2019)
7-6-7: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location Preferences: The City prefers small wireless facilities to be
installed in locations, ordered from most preferred to least preferred, as
follows:
      1.   Most preferred locations:
         a.   Any parcel or public right-of-way location in Industrial Zoning
Districts (WI, WI-T);
         b.   Any parcel or public right-of-way location in Commercial Zoning
Districts (WB-1, WB-2, WB-3, WB-4, WRB-1, WRB-2).
      2.   Least preferred locations:
         a.   Any public right-of-way location in Residential Zoning Districts
on or along roads not designated as arterial or minor arterial roads.
         b.   Any parcel located in Residential Zoning Districts.
      3.   For purposes of these location preferences, the applicant's proposed
location in the public right-of-way shall be classified by the same zoning
district that applies to the nearest adjacent parcel. Planned unit developments
shall follow the closest zoning district based on the approved uses.
   B.   Support Structures In The Public Right-Of-Way: The City prefers small
wireless facilities to be installed on support structures in the public rights-
of-way, ordered from most preferred to least preferred, as follows:
      1.   Existing or replacement streetlight poles;
      2.   Existing or replacement wood utility poles;
      3.   New, non-replacement streetlight poles;
      4.   New, non-replacement standalone poles.
   C.   Support Structures Outside The Public Rights-Of-Way: The City prefers
small wireless facilities to be installed on support structures outside the
public rights-of-way, ordered from most preferred to least preferred, as
follows:
      1.   Existing buildings or other non-tower structures previously approved
for use as a support structure for wireless service facilities;
      2.   Other existing buildings or non-tower structures;
      3.   Existing or replacement standalone poles;
      4.   New, non-replacement standalone poles.
   D.   Prohibited Support Structures: The City prohibits the installation of
small wireless facilities on the following support structures, whether located
in the public rights-of-way or not:
      1.   Traffic signals, signs, poles, cabinets and related devices;
      2.   Any utility pole scheduled for removal or relocation within twelve
(12) months from the time the Director acts on the small cell permit
application;
      3.   New, non-replacement wood poles.
   E.   Approval: Applications that involve least-preferred locations or
structures may be approved so long as the applicant demonstrates that either:
      1.   No more preferred locations or structures exist within five hundred
feet (500') from the proposed site; or
      2.   Any more preferred locations or structures within five hundred feet
(500') from the proposed site would be technically infeasible as supported by
clear and convincing evidence in the record. (Ord. 19-09, 5-20-2019)
7-6-8: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   General Standards:
      1.   Lights:
         a.   Small wireless facilities shall not include any lights that would
be visible from publicly accessible areas, except as may be required by the
Federal Aviation Administration, FCC, or other applicable regulations for
health and safety.
         b.   All equipment with lights (such as indicator or status lights)
must be installed in locations and within enclosures that mitigate illumination
impacts visible from publicly accessible areas.
      2.   Landscape Features: Small wireless facilities shall not displace any
existing landscape features unless:
         a.   Such displaced landscaping is replaced with native plants, trees
or other landscape features approved by the Director; and
         b.   The applicant submits and adheres to a landscape maintenance
plan.
      3.   Site Security Measures:
         a.   Small wireless facilities may incorporate reasonable and
appropriate site security measures, such as locks and anti- climbing devices,
to prevent unauthorized access, theft or vandalism.
         b.   The Director will not approve any barbed wire, razor ribbon,
electrified fences or any similarly dangerous security measures.
         c.   All exterior surfaces on small wireless facilities shall be
constructed from or coated with graffiti-resistant materials.
      4.   Signage; Advertisements:
         a.   All small wireless facilities must include signage that
accurately identifies the site owner/operator, the owner/operator's site name
or identification number and a toll- free number to the owner/operator's
network operations center.
         b.   Small wireless facilities may not bear any other signage or
advertisements unless expressly approved by the City, required by law, or
recommended under FCC, OSHA or other United States governmental agencies for
compliance with radiofrequency emissions regulations.
      5.   Compliance With Health And Safety Regulations: All small wireless
facilities shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained in
compliance with all generally applicable health and safety regulations, which
includes without limitation all applicable regulations for human exposure to
radiofrequency emissions, the Americans With Disabilities Act, Montana Building
Code, and this Code.
   B.   Small Wireless Facilities In The Public Right-Of-Way:
      1.   Overall Height:
         a.   Small wireless facilities may not exceed either:
            (1)   The minimum separation from electrical lines required by the
applicable safety regulations plus four feet (4'); or
            (2)   Four feet (4') above the existing support structure.
         b.   In no case shall an existing support structure be increased by
more than ten feet (10') above existing height.
      2.   Antennas:
         a.   Concealment: All antennas and associated mounting equipment,
hardware, cables or other connecters must be completely concealed within an
opaque antenna shroud or radome that is graffiti- resistant and painted a flat,
non-reflective color to match the underlying support structure.
         b.   Volume: Each individual antenna may not exceed three (3) cubic
feet in volume and all antennas may not exceed six (6) cubic feet in volume.
      3.   Accessory Equipment:
         a.   Installation Preferences:
            (1)   All non-antenna accessory equipment shall be installed in
accordance with the following preferences, ordered from most preferred to least
preferred:
               (A)   Underground in any area in which the existing utilities
are primarily located underground;
               (B)   On the pole or support structure; or
               (C)   Integrated into the base of the pole or support structure.
            (2)   Applications that involve lesser-preferred installation
locations may be approved so long as the applicant demonstrates that no more
preferred installation location would be technically infeasible as supported by
clear and convincing evidence in the written record.
         b.   Pole-Mounted Accessory Equipment:
            (1)   All pole-mounted accessory equipment must be installed at
least ten feet (10') above grade and flush to the pole to minimize the overall
visual profile.
            (2)   If any applicable health and safety regulations prohibit
flush mounted equipment, the maximum separation permitted between the accessory
equipment and the pole shall be the minimum separation required by such
regulations.
            (3)   All pole-mounted equipment and required or permitted signage
must be placed and oriented away from adjacent sidewalks and structures.
            (4)   Pole-mounted equipment may be installed behind street,
traffic or other signs to the extent that the installation complies with
applicable public health and safety regulations.
            (5)   All cables, wires and other connectors must be routed through
conduits within the pole, and all conduit attachments, cables, wires and other
connectors must be concealed from public view.
            (6)   To the extent that cables, wires and other connectors cannot
be routed through the pole, they must be routed through a single external
conduit or shroud that has been finished to match the underlying support
structure.
         c.   Base-Mounted Accessory Equipment:
            (1)   All base-mounted accessory equipment must be installed within
a shroud, enclosure or pedestal integrated into the base of the support
structure.
            (2)   All cables, wires and other connectors routed between the
antenna and base-mounted equipment must be concealed from public view.
         d.   Ground-Mounted Accessory Equipment: The Director will not approve
any ground-mounted accessory equipment including, but not limited to, any
utility or transmission equipment, pedestals, cabinets, panels or electric
meters.
         e.   Accessory Equipment Volume:
            (1)   All accessory equipment associated with a small wireless
facility installed above ground level shall not cumulatively exceed:
               (A)   Nine (9) cubic feet in volume if installed in a
Residential District or within five hundred feet (500') from any structure
approved for a residential use; or;
               (B)   Seventeen (17) cubic feet in volume if installed in a Non-
Residential District.
            (2)   The volume calculation shall include any shroud, cabinet or
other concealment device used in connection with the non-antenna accessory
equipment.
            (3)   The volume calculation shall not include any equipment or
other improvements placed underground.
      4.   Streetlights:
         a.   Applicants that propose to install a small wireless facility on
an existing decorative streetlight must either provide proof by engineer
certification that the streetlight is structurally equipped to support the
facility or must remove and replace the existing decorative streetlight with
one substantially similar to the City's standards and specifications but
designed to accommodate wireless antennas and accessory equipment.
         b.   To mitigate any material changes in the streetlighting patterns,
any replacement streetlight pole must:
            (1)   Be located as close to the removed pole as possible;
            (2)   Be aligned with the other existing streetlights;
            (3)   Include a luminaire at substantially the same height and
distance from the pole as the luminaire on the removed pole; and
            (4)   Use LED lighting.
         c.   All antennas must be installed above the pole within a single,
canister style shroud or radome that tapers to the pole and matches the pole's
color.
      5.   Wood Utility Poles:
         a.   Applicants that propose to install small wireless facilities on
an existing wood utility pole must install all antennas above the pole unless
the applicant demonstrates that mounting the antennas above the pole would be
technically infeasible as supported by clear and convincing evidence in the
written record.
         b.   Side-mounted antennas on a stand-off bracket or extension arm
must be concealed within a shroud.
         c.   All cables, wires and other connectors must be concealed within
the side-arm mount or extension arm.
         d.   The maximum horizontal separation between the antenna and the
pole shall be the minimum separation required by applicable health and safety
regulations.
      6.   New, Non-Replacement Stand Alone Poles:
         a.   Applicants that propose to install small wireless facilities on a
new, non-replacement standalone pole must demonstrate that any existing
structures within five hundred feet (500') from the proposed site would be
technically infeasible as supported by clear and convincing evidence in the
written record.
         b.   The applicant must install a metal or composite pole capable of
concealing all the accessory equipment either within the pole or within an
integrated enclosure located at the base of the pole that substantially matches
the aesthetics of existing poles and structures installed adjacent to the pole.
         c.   The pole diameter shall not exceed twelve inches (12") and any
base enclosure diameter shall not exceed sixteen inches (16").
         d.   All antennas, whether on a new streetlight or other new pole,
must be installed above the pole within a single, canister style shroud or
radome.
      7.   Encroachments Over Private Property: Small wireless facilities may
not encroach onto or over any private or other property outside the public
rights-of-way without the property owner's express written consent.
      8.   Backup Power Sources: Fossil-fuel based backup power sources shall
not be permitted within the public rights-of-way; provided, however, that
connectors or receptacles may be installed for temporary backup power
generators used in an emergency declared by Federal, State or local officials.
      9.   Obstructions; Public Safety: Small wireless facilities and any
associated equipment or improvements shall not physically interfere with:
         a.   Worker access to any above-ground or underground infrastructure
for traffic control, streetlight or public transportation, including without
limitation any curb control sign, parking meter, vehicular traffic sign or
signal, pedestrian traffic sign or signal, or barricade reflectors;
         b.   Access to any public transportation vehicles, shelters, street
furniture or other improvements at any public transportation stop;
         c.   Worker access to above-ground or underground infrastructure owned
or operated by any public or private utility agency;
         d.   Access to fire hydrants or water valves;
         e.   Access to any doors, gates, sidewalk doors, passage doors, stoops
or other ingress and egress points to any building appurtenant to the rights-
of-way; or
         f.   Access to any fire escape.
      10.   Electric Meters: Small wireless facilities shall use flat- rate
electric service or other method that obviates the need for a separate above-
grade electric meter. If flat-rate service is not available, applicants may
install a shrouded smart meter. The Director shall not approve a separate
ground-mounted electric meter pedestal.
      11.   Street Trees: To preserve existing landscaping in the public
rights-of-way, all work performed in connection with small wireless facilities
shall not cause any street trees to be trimmed, damaged or displaced. If any
street trees are damaged or displaced, the applicant shall be responsible, at
its sole cost and expense, to plant and maintain replacement trees, consistent
with the City's list of pre-approved street trees, at the site for the duration
of the permit term.
   C.   Small Wireless Facilities Outside The Public Right-Of-Way:
      1.   Overall Height: Small wireless facilities on private property must
comply with all applicable zoning regulations.
      2.   Stand Alone Poles:
         a.   All new standalone poles must be made from a metal or composite
material capable of concealing all the accessory equipment either within the
support structure or within an integrated enclosure located at the base of the
support structure.
         b.   All antennas must be installed above the pole in a single,
canister-style shroud or radome.
         c.   The support structure and all accessory equipment must be painted
with flat/neutral colors.
         d.   The pole height shall not exceed the height limit for the
applicable zoning district or overlay zone.
         e.   The pole diameter shall not exceed twelve inches (12") and any
base enclosure diameter shall not exceed sixteen inches (16").
      3.   Building-Mounted Small Wireless Facilities:
         a.   All applicants must propose new non-pole small wireless
facilities that are completely concealed and architecturally integrated into
the existing facade or rooftop features with no visible impacts from any
publicly accessible areas at ground level (examples include, but are not
limited to, antennas behind existing parapet walls or facades).
         b.   If the applicant demonstrates with clear and convincing evidence
that integration with a building's existing features is technically infeasible,
the applicant may propose completely concealed new structures or appurtenances
designed to mimic the support structure's original architecture and proportions
(examples include, but are not limited to, steeples and chimneys).
         c.   Building-mounted small wireless facilities in Industrial and
Commercial Zones require approval of the Architectural Review Committee.
         d.   Building-mounted small wireless facilities may require building
permits or other City permits. (Ord. 19-09, 5-20-2019)
CHAPTER 7
EXCESSIVE PERSONAL PROPERTY INTERFERING WITH THE USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-7-1: Purpose
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Prohibited Conduct
7-7-4: Violation; Penalty
7-7-1: PURPOSE:
Public areas should be accessible and available to residents and the public at
large for their intended uses. The unauthorized use of public property for the
storage of excessive personal property interferes with the rights of other
members of the public to use public areas for their intended purposes,
including those with accessibility issues, and can create a public health or
safety hazard that adversely affects residential and commercial areas. The
purpose of this chapter is to maintain public areas in a clean, sanitary, and
accessible condition to prevent the misappropriation of public areas for
personal use, and to promote the public health and safety by ensuring that
public areas remain readily accessible for their intended uses. (Ord. 20-10, 7-
20-2020)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the terms are defined as follows:
 
                   More than what a reasonable person would carry with them for
EXCESSIVE:         the enjoyment or use of the public property or an amount of
                   property that will interfere with another's use of public
                   property.
                   Any natural person or individual, group, business, business
PERSON:            trust, company, corporation, partnership, entity,
                   association, club, or organization composed of two or more
                   individuals.
                   Any and all tangible things or property, including, without
PERSONAL PROPERTY: limitation, goods, materials, products, and merchandise or
                   food of any kind.
                   That portion of any public area or public areas within the
                   City that are owned, managed, controlled, or maintained by
                   the City, including, without limitation, any park, parking
PUBLIC PROPERTY:   lot, street, median strip, space, ground, building,
                   structure, sidewalk, avenue, highway, curb, bikeway, or any
                   right of way or other public way in the City, improved or
                   unimproved.
                   To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, or to put
                   for safekeeping, and/or to place or leave or lay away in a
STORE:             location for preservation or later use or disposal, separate
                   and apart from being carried, kept, or stored upon one's
                   person. (Ord. 20-10, 7-20-2020)
 
7-7-3: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for a person or persons to place, store, or maintain more
personal property than is reasonable for the use of the public property and in
a manner that:
   A.   Deprives another the use of the same property;
   B.   Creates a health or sanitation issue;
   C.   Creates an obstruction; or
   D.   Causes a public area to be uninviting to others. (Ord. 20-10, 7-20-
2020)
7-7-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of the restrictions set forth in this section may be punished as
a misdemeanor as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any such violation may also be treated as a municipal
infraction, and the person violating the restrictions set forth in this section
may be assessed a civil penalty as provided in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the City will elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 20-10, 7-20-2020)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL WATER AND SEWER
SECTION:
8-1-1: Rules And Regulations
8-1-2: Collection Of Service Charges
8-1-3: Withholding Permanent Water And/Or Sewer Service
8-1-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall, by resolution, adopt rules and regulations:
   A.   Governing the administration, management and operations of the city's
water and sewer utilities;
   B.   Governing the issuance, denial, modification or revocation of permits
for said utilities;
   C.   Governing schedules of rates, complaints, limitations of service,
service lines and connections, metering, extensions of mains, fire hydrants,
billing and adjustments, deposits and discontinuance of service for said
utilities. (Ord. A-425, 5-2-1983)
8-1-2: COLLECTION OF SERVICE CHARGES:
All water charges, rates or rents and wastewater or sewer service charges
delinquent and unpaid shall be levied as a tax against the lot or parcel of
real estate to which such water and/or sewer service was furnished, and the
same shall be certified to the city clerk by the public works department for
collection along with the other city special assessments, all pursuant to
Montana code title 7, chapter 13 and under authority of the city charter and
self-governing powers as provided by law. (Ord. A-425, 5-2-1983)
8-1-3: WITHHOLDING PERMANENT WATER AND/OR SEWER SERVICE:
   A.   No city employee shall provide permanent water or sewer service to a
newly constructed structure, or to a newly remodeled structure if a building
permit was required for such remodeling, until such structure and the land on
which it and/or its related parking, driveways, and landscaping are to be
located comply fully with all specific project requirements, and all city
ordinances, codes, and rules and regulations.
   B.   If a property owner or his or her representative requests permanent
water and/or sewer service from the city but such service is withheld pursuant
to subsection A of this section, then the city shall provide to the person
requesting service a written statement of all of the city requirements,
ordinances, codes, rules and regulations to which such structure and/or land is
subject to but not in compliance with.
   C.   It shall be permissible for city employees to grant temporary water
service for construction purposes only, and any such water service granted
prior to full compliance, as required in subsection A of this section, shall be
deemed to be temporary service, subject to termination as set forth herein.
   D.   Temporary water service, if granted, may be terminated by the city
after three (3) days' prior written notice has been personally delivered or
mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the owner or to the owner's
representative's last known address.
   E.   Receipt of temporary water and/or sewer service does not in any way
entitle a structure to receive permanent water and/or sewer service.
   F.   If an owner of a structure or his or her representative permits
individuals to occupy a structure prior to receipt of an occupancy permit from
the Whitefish building department, then the city shall be entitled to withhold,
or if granted shall be entitled to terminate, water and/or sewer service to
such structure.
   G.   If, in the opinion of the city manager (or his or her designee),
weather conditions or other factors prevent a structure from complying fully
with all project requirements, ordinances, codes, and rules and regulations,
then the city manager may, upon application by the owner or his or her
representative, grant permanent water and/or sewer service to such structure,
but only after written commitment by the owner or his or her representative to
come into full compliance within a period of time satisfactory to the city
manager. In such case, the city manager shall require from the owner or his or
her representative a bond, letter of credit, or other cash deposit in the
amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost to comply, and
the city shall be entitled to draw upon such bond, letter of credit, or cash
deposit and arrange for the structure to come into compliance if compliance has
not occurred by the deadline approved by the city manager. (Ord. 03-23, 9-2-
2003)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Authority To Turn On Water
8-2-2: Connection Restrictions
8-2-3: Water Shutoff
8-2-1: AUTHORITY TO TURN ON WATER:
No water from the city water supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person but the public works department by its duly authorized
employee. (Ord. A-133, 3-1-1965)
8-2-2: CONNECTION RESTRICTIONS:
None but licensed plumbers or the public works department, by its duly
authorized employees, shall do any work in connection with the water service
pipes between the curb boxes and the water user's meter, and none but the water
department, by its duly authorized employees, shall do any work in connection
with the water service pipes between the city water mains and the curb boxes.
(Ord. A-133, 3-1-1965)
8-2-3: WATER SHUTOFF:
Notice will be given, whenever practicable, prior to shutting off water, but
consumers are warned that owing to unavoidable accidents or emergencies their
water supply may be shut off at any time. All persons having boilers on their
premises depending on connected pressure with the water mains, are cautioned
against collapse of their boilers. As soon as water is turned off, the hot
water faucet should be opened and left open until the water is again turned on.
A check valve must always be placed between the boiler and the city water
department's mains to prevent draining the boiler. No premises shall be left
with any faucets open and water turned off. (Ord. 168, 1-15-1923)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: City's Sewer System
8-3-2: Mandatory Connections (Rep. by Res. 13-05, 5-6-2013)
8-3-3: Construction Specifications
8-3-4: Private Disposal Systems
8-3-5: Catch Basins
8-3-6: Violation; Fine Or Penalty
8-3-1: CITY'S SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   Composition: The sewer system of the city shall consist of two (2)
parts: a sanitary system and a storm sewer system. (Ord. 82, 12-7-1911)
   B.   Requirements: The sanitary sewer shall serve as a drain for all sewage
of an ordinary nature, except stormwaters, etc., which stormwaters, etc., must
be emptied into the storm sewer or other manner as prescribed by the public
works department. (Ord. 82, 12-7-1911; amd. 2003 Code)
8-3-2: MANDATORY CONNECTIONS:
(Rep. by Res. 13-05, 5-6-2013)
8-3-3: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Trenches: All trenches in public streets or alleys in the city shall be
excavated so as to impede public travel as little as possible. The public works
director or his duly authorized assistant shall have the power to determine or
limit the time such street or alley may be kept open, and when necessarily
delayed, he may direct that the number of workers be increased to hasten the
work to such an extent as he deems necessary for the public interest. This
subsection shall apply to the excavation of all trenches within the limits of
the city, for any purposes whatsoever, and no excavating shall be made or begun
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the public works director as
herein provided.
      1.   Trenches six feet (6') or more in depth and in filled in or
otherwise treacherous soil, or near large buildings, shall be properly braced
to prevent any caving in which might occur.
      2.   The crossings of gutters and all other ways must be left in such
shape as to admit the ready escape of water during storms. Planks shall always
be provided when sidewalks or crossings are open so as to facilitate easy
crossing over trenches. Red lights shall be kept around all unfinished work at
night from dark until sunrise, and sufficient barricades shall be placed around
excavations at all times.
      3.   The refilling of all trenches shall be well and thoroughly done in
uniform layers and tamped with a tamp of not less than forty (40) pounds'
weight, or with puddled earth, as may be directed by the public works director,
or his assistant entrusted with the supervision of such work, so as to replace
all excavated material and leave the surface in as good condition as found
before the commencement of the work. (Ord. 82, 12-7-1911)
   B.   Main Extension Requirements: All expense of extending and laying sewer
mains must be borne by the property owner. All expense of laying and
maintaining service pipes from the mains to the owner's premises must be borne
by the property owner. All extensions of sewer mains must be extended by the
property owner, at the same time, across the full width of his property so as
to make the main available to the adjoining property owner. (Ord. A-282, 1-17-
1977)
   C.   Drainpipe Requirements: All sewer mains hereinafter installed in the
city shall meet the specifications as provided by the public works department.
(Ord. A-238, 6-4-1973; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Grease Traps: All restaurants, eating establishments and all drains
wherein slop of any description is to be emptied shall be provided with a
standard grease trap. (Ord. 82, 12-7-1911)
8-3-4: PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Connection To Sewer: The city council shall have power, by resolution,
to order any privy, water closet or house drain in actual use on any lot or
part of lot in the city, adjacent to any main trunk sewer or lateral sewer in
the city, now constructed or which may hereafter be constructed, to be
connected with the sewer whenever the city council deems it necessary to the
health or sanitary condition of the locality.
   B.   Order To Connect: When the city council orders any privy, water closet
or house drain to be connected with the sewer, as provided by subsection A of
this section, it shall be the duty of the city clerk to deliver to the chief of
police a certified copy of the resolution and one additional copy thereof for
each owner and person in charge of the privy, water closet or house drain
ordered by the resolution to be connected with the sewer. The chief of police
shall forthwith deliver to the owner and to the person in charge of the privy,
water closet or house drain a certified copy of the resolution and make a
return on the original to whom and when he delivered the certified copies and
file the same with the city clerk.
   C.   Notice To Connect: If the owner of the property on which any privy,
water closet or house drain is ordered to be connected with the sewer is a
nonresident of the city, or for any other reason cannot be served as provided
by subsection B of this section, the city clerk shall post a copy of the
resolution in three (3) of the most public places in the city for one week
which shall be a legal service and notice to such owner. (Ord. 106, 2-1-1915)
   D.   Compliance Required: If any owner or owners of any privy, water closet
or house drain fails, refuses or neglects to comply with the requirements of
the resolution of the city council ordering the privy, water closet or house
drain to be connected with the sewer, after a receipt of a certified copy of
the resolution as provided by subsection B of this section, or after the
posting of copies of the resolution, as provided by subsection C of this
section, in the way and manner as is provided by this chapter for thirty (30)
days, the owner or owners shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code and shall also be deemed to have committed a municipal
infraction, punishable as set forth in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
   E.   Violation: It is unlawful for any person in charge of any privy, water
closet or house drain, after receipt of a copy of a resolution ordering the
privy, water closet or house drain to be connected with the sewer, to use the
same for more than thirty (30) days after they have received a copy of the
resolution. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as set forth in
section
1-4-1 of this code and shall also be deemed to have committed a municipal
infraction, punishable as set forth in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
8-3-5: CATCH BASINS:
   A.   Requirements: Sewer drains in garages and service stations of the city
must be intercepted before entering the sewer by the installation and
maintenance of a suitable catch basin properly trapped. The sediment collected
in the same must be removed often enough to prevent grease, oil or silt from
entering the sewer.
   B.   Prohibited Acts: It is unlawful for any person owning or operating any
garage or service station within the city to allow grease, oil, silt, dirt,
debris or refuse to accumulate in catch basins maintained in any drain in any
garage or service station within the city. (Ord. A-55, 3-1-1954)
8-3-6: VIOLATION; FINE OR PENALTY:
Any person making connections with sewers and drains, violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, or making such connection other than as provided in
the plans on file in the office of the public works director, shall be
subjected, upon conviction thereof, to a misdemeanor penalty as provided in the
general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. Any person making such illegal connection, or violating any
of the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed to have committed a
municipal infraction, and shall be assessed a civil penalty pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 4
WASTEWATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Determination Of Annual System Costs
8-4-3: Construction Requirements
8-4-4: Prohibited Wastes
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to generate sufficient revenue to pay all costs
for the operation and maintenance of the complete wastewater system. The costs
shall be distributed equitably to all users of the wastewater system. (Ord. A-
266, 11-3-1975)
8-4-2: DETERMINATION OF ANNUAL SYSTEM COSTS:
The public works director shall determine the total annual cost of the
operation and maintenance of the wastewater system. The total annual cost of
operation and maintenance shall include, but need not be limited to, labor,
repairs, equipment replacement, maintenance, necessary modification, power,
sampling, laboratory tests and a reasonable contingency fund. (Ord. A-266, 11-
3-1975)
8-4-3: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
The size, shape, materials of construction of all sanitary sewers and sewer
connections, and the method to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. (Ord. A-266, 11-3-1975; amd. Ord. A-346, 6-4-1979)
8-4-4: PROHIBITED WASTES:
   A.   Highly Concentrated Materials: The discharge of wastes containing
materials in such quantities as to be detrimental to the wastewater treatment
process is prohibited. The discharge of wastes which cause or are likely to
cause maintenance problems, such as the hindrance of flow, the blocking of
pipes and/or the clogging of pumps is prohibited. (Ord. A-266, 11-3-1975)
   B.   Storm Drains And Similar Wastes:
      1.   Discharge Prohibited: Except as otherwise expressly authorized in
this subsection, no ponds, water fountains, water from any roof or exterior
surface, ground water sump pump, other natural precipitation, or clear water
shall be discharged into the sanitary sewer system. Dwellings and other
buildings and structures which require a sump pump discharge system because of
infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces, and the like, shall have a
permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any time discharge
water into a sanitary sewer system. A permanent installation shall be one which
provides for year round discharge capability to either the outside of the
dwelling, building, or structure, or is connected to a storm drainage system or
discharged through the curb and gutter to the street. Within the home or
business, the sump pump discharge pipe should consist of a rigid discharge
line, without valves or quick connections that would alter the path of
discharge, in accordance with standard drawings and details provided by the
public works department.
      2.   Inspections: Property owners shall allow an employee of the city or
a designated representative of the city to inspect buildings to confirm there
is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system.
The city may periodically reinspect any building or premises to determine
compliance with the requirements of this subsection.
      3.   Removal Of Connections: Any property owner who previously made any
connection or installation in violation of this subsection shall immediately
remove such connection or correct such installation. If the unauthorized
connection has not been removed or corrected within thirty (30) calendar days
after notice of the violation has been delivered personally or by certified
mail to the owner, the city may impose a surcharge in the amount provided in
subsection B4 of this section. Such a surcharge may also be imposed upon any
property owner, after a thirty (30) calendar day notice has been delivered, if
the owner refuses to allow their property to be inspected. The owner of a
building or premises found to be not in conformance with this subsection during
periodic reinspections may be subjected to a surcharge as provided in
subsection B4 of this section.
      4.   Surcharge: A surcharge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month is
hereby imposed on every sewer bill to property owners for the following
conditions:
         a.   Not in compliance with this subsection; or
         b.   Refusal of property inspection.
      5.   Nonpayment Of Surcharge: If the surcharge is not received by the
city of Whitefish, the city reserves the right to assess the property owner the
unpaid balance, as provided in section
8-1-2 of this title. (Ord. 08-14, 6-16-2008)
ARTICLE A. WASTEWATER USER CHARGES
SECTION:
8-4A-1: Purpose
8-4A-2: Definitions
8-4A-3: Determination Of User Charges
8-4A-4: Billing And Collection
8-4A-5: Excess Users; Sampling And Measurement
8-4A-6: Review Of Charges
8-4A-1: PURPOSE:
It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the protection
of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the city to collect
charges from all users who contribute wastewater to the municipal treatment
works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the purpose of
operating and maintaining the public wastewater treatment works. (Ord. 88-4, 7-
18-1988)
8-4A-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this article are as follows:
BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
BASIC SERVICE CHARGE: Assessed to all customers of the utility receiving
service during any billing cycle. The basic service charge is designed to
recover those normal recurring costs associated with administration, billing,
collection, etc., that apply equally to each user of the system regardless of
demand or quantity discharged.
CONSUMPTION CHARGE: The extra costs of the sewer utility which are directly or
indirectly relative to the volume of sewer discharged shall be recovered from
the consumption charge. In order to establish equitable rates through the
consumption charge, five (5) service classes will be used in calculating this
charge. Costs to be recovered from the consumption charge include: debt
service; collection system operation, maintenance and replacement; treatment
system operation, maintenance and replacement; and pumping system operation,
maintenance and replacement.
CONSUMPTION SURCHARGE: In addition to the consumption charge, a surcharge shall
be assessed to all out-of-city users. This surcharge will vary depending upon
the type, time, quality, quantity and other discharge parameters as defined and
set forth in contracts for service and approved by the city council.
INDUSTRIAL USERS: Those customers, commercial and industrial, that contribute
wastes above normal strength. Customers determined to contribute wastes in
excess of the abovementioned parameters will be assessed an additional charge
(demand charge) proportional to the excessive concentrations.
NORMAL STRENGTH WASTEWATER: Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not more
than two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and a suspended solids
concentration of not more than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/
l).
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE: Those functions that result in expenditures during
the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities and
other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement as defined in this section.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
RESIDENTIAL USERS: Those customers, residential and commercial, that discharge
normal strength wastes containing no more than two hundred milligrams per liter
(200 mg/l) BOD or more than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l)
TSS.
SERVICE CLASS: In order to determine the consumption rate for users, each
customer will be classed according to the number of times their sewage is
pumped through. City owned and operated lift stations. Service class 1 applies
to those customers utilizing one lift station; service class 2 applies to those
customers utilizing two (2) lift stations, and so on up to service class 4. A
service class 0 has been added for determining the rate for direct discharges
to the treatment facility.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
TSS (DENOTING TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS): Solids that either float on the surface
of or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.
TREATMENT WORKS: Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment, recycling
and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or liquid industrial
wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection
systems, pumping, power and other equipment and their appurtenances;
extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof;
elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby
treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including site
acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment process
or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment
(including land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such compost and
land used for the storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems
before land application); or any other method or system for preventing,
abating, reducing, storing, treating, separating or disposing of municipal
waste or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary
sewer systems.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
USER CHARGE: That portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
WATER METER: A water volume measuring and recording device approved by the
city. (Ord. 88-4, 7-18-1988)
8-4A-3: DETERMINATION OF USER CHARGES:
   A.   The revenues collected, as a result of the user charges levied, shall
be deposited in a separate nonlapsing fund known as the operation and
maintenance fund.
   B.   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation, maintenance and replacement
fund shall be used for no other purposes than those designated. Monies which
have been transferred from other sources to meet temporary shortages in the
operation, maintenance and replacement fund shall be returned to their
respective accounts upon appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for
operation, maintenance and replacement. The user charge rates shall be adjusted
such that the transferred monies will be returned to their respective accounts
within six (6) months of the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
   C.   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the month based on his
use of the treatment works as determined by water meter readings.
   D.   For all system users, monthly user charges will be based on actual
water usage. If a residential, commercial, institutional or industrial user has
a consumptive use of water, or in some other manner, uses water which is not
discharged into the wastewater collection system, the user charge for that
contributor may be based on readings of a wastewater meter or separate water
meters installed and maintained at the user's expense. (Ord. 88-4, 7-18-1988)
   E.   Each user shall pay a user charge rate for all discharges into the
treatment works in accordance with rates adopted by the city council, on file
in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 88-4, 7-18-1988; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants, or which causes an
increase in the cost of managing the effluent of the sludge from the water/
wastewater division's treatment works, or any user which discharges any
substance which singly or by interaction with other substances causes
identifiable increases in the cost of operation, maintenance or replacement of
the treatment works, shall pay for such increased costs. The charge to each
such user shall be as determined by the appropriate financial personnel and
approved by the city council.
   G.   The user charge rates established in this article apply to all users of
the city's treatment works. (Ord. 88-4, 7-18-1988)
8-4A-4: BILLING AND COLLECTION:
   A.   All users shall be billed in accordance with the utility rate schedule
as adopted by the city council. (Ord. 88-4, 7-18-1988; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   When any bill (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for one
year after the date due, such bill shall be recorded in the land records of
Flathead County by the city clerk and shall constitute a lien on the property.
If such lien (including interest and penalty) remains unpaid for a period of
one year after date of recordation, such property shall be subject to public
sale by the city. (Ord. 88-4, 7-18-1988)
8-4A-5: EXCESS USERS; SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT:
All users contributing more than twenty thousand (20,000) gallons per month and
whose waste strength is greater than two hundred milligrams (200 mg) of BOD/
l or two hundred fifty milligrams (250 mg) TSS/l shall prepare and file with
the city a report that shall include pertinent data relating to the wastewater
characteristics, including the methods of sampling and measurement to obtain
these data, and these data shall be used to calculate the user charge for that
user. The city shall have the right to gain access to the waste stream and take
its own samples. Should the city do so and should the results be substantially
different as determined by laboratory analysis from the data submitted by the
user, the user charge for that user shall be revised for the next billing
cycle/period. (Ord. 88-4, 7-18-1988)
8-4A-6: REVIEW OF CHARGES:
   A.   User Application:
      1.   Any user who feels his user charge is unjust and inequitable may
make written application to the city requesting a review of his user charge.
Said written request shall, where necessary, show the actual or estimated
average flow and/or strength of his wastewater in comparison with the values
upon which the charge is based, including how the measurements or estimates
were made.
      2.   Review of the request shall be made by the city and if
substantiated, the user charges for that user shall be recomputed based on the
revised flow and/or strength data and the new charges shall be applicable to
the next billing cycle/period.
   B.   City To Review; Notice:
      1.   The city will review the user charges at least annually and revise
the rates as necessary to ensure that adequate revenues are generated to pay
the costs of operation and maintenance, including replacement, and that the
system continues to provide for the proportional distribution of operation and
maintenance, including replacement, costs among users and user classes.
      2.   The city will notify each user at least annually of the rate being
charged for operation and maintenance, including replacement, of the treatment
works. (Ord. 88-4, 7-18-1988)
CHAPTER 5
WATER CONSERVATION
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Scope
8-5-3: General Conservation
8-5-4: Water Shortages
8-5-5: Stage Restrictions
8-5-6: Fines And Penalties
8-5-7: Other Water Conservation Programs
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide the City the means to reduce per
capita water demands by requiring its citizens and businesses to comply with
prescribed water conservation regulations. (Ord. 19-12, 6-3-2019)
8-5-2: SCOPE:
This chapter applies to all Municipal water customers of the City, wherever
situated, to the extent legally permissible. (Ord. 19-12, 6-3-2019)
8-5-3: GENERAL CONSERVATION:
   A.   Restrictions: The following general conservation restrictions are
always in effect:
      1.   All outdoor watering is prohibited between the hours of nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
      2.   Commercial lodging establishments must provide guests the option of
choosing not to have linen washed every day.
      3.   Watering must not result in coverage of pavement areas of result in
excess runoff.
      4.   All hoses shall be equipped with a positive shut-off nozzle.
   B.   Audits: The City Utility Billing Department may conduct water audits of
usage on any account and require modifications as appropriate to conserve
water.
   C.   Exception: Supervised maintenance of automatic sprinkler systems (such
as adjusting, and replacing spray heads, correcting timers, etc.) are excepted
from the general conservation restrictions. (Ord. 19-12, 6-3-2019)
8-5-4: WATER SHORTAGES:
   A.   Proclamation: Under the conditions set forth in this chapter, the
Public Works Director, in consultation with the Water Department personnel, may
find, and by proclamation declare, a stage I or stage II water shortage to
prevent depleting the water supply for human consumption and sanitation and to
produce an orderly and equitable reduction of water consumption.
   B.   Effect: Immediately upon the issuance of such a proclamation, the
regulations and restrictions set forth under this chapter will become effective
and will remain in effect until the proclamation is rescinded.
   C.   Conditions: A proclamation declaring a water shortage is activated by
critical equipment failure, excessive water demand, and/or declaration of
drought in the area.
      1.   Water demand is monitored at the water meter on the line from the
water treatment plant to the water treatment plant reservoir.
      2.   Drought conditions are monitored by reviewing the reports from the
U.S. drought monitor at https://droughtmonitor.unl.edu.
   D.   Trigger Points:
      1.   Water shortage proclamations will be declared based upon the
following criteria:
         a.   Stage I - severe water shortage: All four (4) water treatment
trains in service, or; portions or all of Flathead County in extreme drought.
         b.   Stage II - extreme water shortage: Critical water supply
infrastructure failure, or; portions or all of Flathead County in exception
drought.
      2.   Water shortage proclamations will be rescinded based upon the
following criteria:
         a.   Stage I - step down to general conservation restrictions: Ten
(10) consecutive days of water demand less than or equal to 3.0 MGD.
         b.   Stage II - step down to stage I restrictions: Critical
infrastructure repair complete, or; U.S. drought monitor index condition change
to severe or less drought status. (Ord. 19-12, 6-3-2019)
8-5-5: STAGE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Stage I - Severe Water Shortage: If a proclamation declaring a stage I
water shortage is issued, the following restrictions become effective
immediately:
      1.   All restrictions set forth in section
8-5-3, "General Conservation", of this chapter remain in effect.
      2.   Watering is limited to two (2) days per week in accordance with the
following schedule:
         a.   Watering is prohibited on Mondays.
         b.   Single residential properties with odd-numbered addresses may
water on Saturday and Wednesday.
         c.   Single residential properties with even-numbered addresses may
water on Sunday and Thursday.
         d.   All other properties (multi-unit, HOAs, commercial, industrial,
government) may water on Tuesday and Friday.
         e.   New turf planting is prohibited.
         f.   Exterior water features must be turned off.
         g.   Car washing is prohibited except at commercial car wash
facilities.
         h.   The City may limit the number of minutes of irrigation that an
area of turf may receive or a maximum total amount of time during which
irrigation at a premises may occur.
   B.   Stage II - Extreme Water Shortage: If a proclamation declaring a stage
II water shortage is issued, the following restrictions become effective
immediately:
      1.   All stage I restrictions remain in effect.
      2.   All outdoor watering is prohibited: public or private, for gardens,
lawns, trees, shrubs, plants, parks, golf courses, playing fields, swimming
pools or other recreational areas.
      3.   No new landscaping is permitted.
      4.   Washing of motor vehicles, boats, trailers, pavement or the exterior
of any building or structure is prohibited.
   C.   Exceptions: The following exceptions apply to both stage I and stage II
restrictions:
      1.   A commercial outdoor water use permit may be issued by the Public
Works Department to businesses that cannot maintain their operations without
the use of outdoor water.
      2.   Aquatic invasive species (AIS) trailer/boat decontamination.
      3.   Vegetable gardens - unlimited days of watering during the
permissible hours set forth in section
8-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 19-12, 6-3-2019)
8-5-6: FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Waste: Water uses regulated or prohibited under this chapter are
considered nonessential and continuation of such uses during times of water
shortage is deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting the users to
surcharges, disconnection costs and excess consumption fees.
   B.   Fines:
      1.   Violation of general conservation restrictions: A warning will be
issued for the first offense followed by a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fine for
each subsequent offense.
      2.   Violation of stage I restrictions: A fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) and not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the
first offense, increasing by an additional fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
subsequent offense.
      3.   Violation of stage II restrictions: A fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
minimum for the first offense, increasing by an additional one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each subsequent offense. Third-time offenders utilizing more than
fifty (50) gallons per minute of water for a prohibited use may have their
water temporarily shut off.
   C.   Reduction In Flow:
      1.   The Public Works Department, under authorization of the City Manager
and the Public Works Director, may reduce or disconnect the flow of water to
any customer determined to be using water in any manner not in accordance with
this chapter during a stage I or stage II water shortage or in any other
situation that may be deemed a risk to public health.
      2.   All unmetered usage without written consent from the City is
considered a threat to public health and may receive a reduction of flow or
disconnect of flow whether or not a stage I or stage II water shortage is in
effect. This reduction or potential disconnection may occur with or without
notice, as judgement of severity has been decided by the City Manager and the
Public Works Director. (Ord. 19-12, 6-3-2019)
8-5-7: OTHER WATER CONSERVATION PROGRAMS:
The City may adopt other water conservation programs such as indoor plumbing
reduction strategies, exterior reduction strategies such as low water use
landscaping, reduction through education using outreach and public education
programs, reduction through public assistance such as leak detection and low-
income leak detection and repair assistance. (Ord. 19-12, 6-3-2019)
TITLE 9
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION
SECTION:
9-1-1: Fire Code
9-1-2: Alteration Of Buildings
9-1-3: Liability Of Occupants
9-1-4: Alarm Systems
9-1-5: Smoking Prohibited
9-1-6: Fireworks
9-1-7: Fire Hydrants
9-1-8: Fire Restrictions
9-1-1: FIRE CODE:
   A.   Adoption By Reference Of The International Fire Code:
      1.   The current edition of the International Fire Code together with any
supplements, adopted by the Fire Prevention and Investigation Bureau of the
Montana Department of Justice (or its successor), as set out in the
Administrative Rules of Montana, and as amended from time to time by the
bureau, are adopted by reference and incorporated in this chapter as if set
forth in full, with the additions, amendments, and deletions enumerated with
the administrative rules, except as may be noted in this chapter, by future
administrative order, or by any regulations not applicable to local government
jurisdictions.
      2.   One (1) copy of the current edition of the Code shall be kept on
file in the Office of the Clerk of the City of Whitefish, 418 East 2nd Street,
Whitefish, Montana, and one (1) copy shall be kept on file in the Office of the
Whitefish Fire Department, 275 Flathead Avenue, Whitefish, Montana.
      3.   Any amendments adopted by the Fire Prevention and Investigation
Bureau which apply to local government jurisdictions, including the adoption of
the latest editions of the International Fire Code or applicable Administrative
Rules of Montana shall become effective upon execution of an administrative
order of the City Manager, unless a different effective date is specified in
the administrative order.
      4.   A copy of the amendment notification and the corresponding new
edition will be kept in the Office of the Whitefish Clerk and the Whitefish
Fire Department.
      5.   The International Fire Code, Administrative Rules of Montana, as
adopted above, are applicable within the City limits of Whitefish. (Ord. 15-03,
2-17-2015)
   B.   Enforcement: The Fire Code adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of
the Fire Department.
   C.   Definition: Whenever the word "Municipality" is used in the Fire Code,
it shall mean this City.
   D.   Limits For Storage Of Flammable Liquids, Liquefied Petroleum Gases,
Explosives And Blasting Agents: The limits referred to in the Fire Code in
which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited,
in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted and in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited are established as
follows:
The point of beginning being the center of Kalispell Avenue at the junction
with the north boundary of Railway Street; then extending south along the
center line of Kalispell Avenue to the junction with the center line of Fourth
Street to the junction with the center line of Baker Avenue; thence north along
the center line of Baker Avenue to the junction with the center line of Third
Street; thence west along the center line of Third Street to the junction with
the center line of Lupfer Avenue; thence north along the center line of Lupfer
Avenue to the north side of Railway Street; thence east along the north side of
Railway Street to the point of beginning.
   E.   Permits: All permits issued under the provisions of this section shall
expire on December 31 of each and every year and shall be renewed annually
thereafter. All applications for permits or renewals shall be filed on or
before January 31 of each and every year or at least ten (10) days before the
permit would be required under the provisions of this section.
   F.   Modifications: The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to
modify any of the provisions of the Fire Code adopted upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly authorized agent, when there are
practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
code; provided that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety
secured and substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification,
when granted or allowed, and the decision of the fire chief thereof, shall be
entered upon the records of the fire department and a signed copy shall be
furnished the applicant.
   G.   Appeals: Whenever the fire chief disapproves an application or refuses
to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the fire chief to the city council within thirty (30) days from the date of
the decision. (Ord. A-144, 11-15-1965)
   H.   Penalties: Any person who violates any of the provisions of the fire
code adopted in this section or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or
fails to comply with any order made thereunder, or who builds in violation of
any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who fails to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the city council or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the
time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as set forth
in section
1-4-1 of this code, and shall also be deemed to have committed a municipal
infraction, the penalty for which is set forth in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation
or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to correct or
remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not
otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The application of the above
penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited
conditions. (Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
9-1-2: ALTERATION OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Notice: Whenever, in the judgment of the fire chief or his designee,
any building, structure, or any portion thereof, or any appurtenance or fixture
thereto, or any chimney, smokestack, flue, pipe, stove, oven, furnace or other
heating apparatus, or any electric wiring, connection or other electric hazard,
or anything connected with such building, structure or premises is deemed
unsafe or defective as to fire, or likely to constitute a fire hazard, the fire
chief or his designee shall give the owner, or person in charge of the
property, five (5) days' notice, in writing, specifying in the notice requested
changes or alterations or repairs necessary to render the property and premises
safe to life and property from fire, and any person receiving such notice and
refusing or neglecting to comply with the requirements of the notice within the
five (5) day period, or to appeal therefrom to the city council by filing
notice of the appeal in writing with the city clerk within the period of five
(5) days after receipt of the notice, shall be subject to the penalties
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code, and shall also be deemed to have committed a municipal
infraction, and subject to the civil penalties in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
   B.   Appeal: Any person under whom notice specified in subsection A of this
section may be served shall, within five (5) days after the service of such
notice upon him, either comply with the requirements of such notice, or file
his appeal therefrom with the city clerk, which appeal shall be in writing and
appeal to the city council for a review of the requirements specified in the
notice. If such appeal is filed with the city clerk, he shall present the same
to the city council for consideration at the next regular meeting of the city
council, and the city council shall proceed to hear the appeal either at said
time or at any time and meeting which shall and to which the hearing shall be
adjourned or set. The city council shall have authority to swear witnesses (the
mayor, or in his absence the president of the council administering the oath to
such witnesses) and to take testimony at such hearing in respect to such
matter, and to make personal investigation, or direct investigation in regard
thereto to be made by properly qualified persons designated by the city
council, and to, after the hearing, decide and determine the matter, and if the
city council, after the hearing, finds that a fire hazard exists in connection
with the premises, to order that the notice by the fire chief or his designee
be sustained and complied with. The city clerk shall forthwith notify the
appellant of such decision, and if the repairs, changes or alterations are not
made within five (5) days thereafter the appellant shall be deemed to be guilty
of a misdemeanor violation of the provisions of this chapter and subject to the
penalties as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code, and shall also be deemed to have committed a municipal
infraction, subject to the civil penalties in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
9-1-3: LIABILITY OF OCCUPANTS:
Any person occupying property in the city, of which occupant is not the owner,
shall forthwith, upon demand of the fire chief or his designee, advise and
inform the fire chief or his designee of the name and address of the owner or
person in charge of the property, under whose authority he occupies the same,
and failure or refusal so to do shall make the occupant of the property subject
to the misdemeanor penalties, provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code to the same degree and extent as though the occupant were
the owner of the property. Such person shall also be deemed to have committed a
municipal infraction, and shall be assessed the civil penalty set forth in
section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
9-1-4: ALARM SYSTEMS:
   A.   Registration Of Alarm System Companies: Effective January 1, 2015, all
alarm system companies will register with the city and pay an alarm system
license fee to the city at the time of registration prior to the installation
or maintenance of an alarm system in the city.
   B.   Registration Of Security Systems: All property owners will register
their security system installed by an alarm system company registered and
licensed by the city for each system located in the city. Effective January 1,
2015, all property owners will pay a fee for each new alarm system installed in
the city.
   C.   Provide Contact Number To Company: The property owner or customer of
the alarm system company will provide a primary and secondary contact telephone
or cellphone number for the alarm company to contact when the alarm signal
elicits notification to emergency services for a response by city fire, police,
or designee.
   D.   Emergency Services: Except when the type of alarm system activated may
make verification inappropriate (including robbery, fire, medical, and panic
alarm signals), city emergency services, fire, police, or designee, will be put
on alert by the Flathead County 911 Center when an alarm is received, but will
not respond until the licensed alarm system company verifies the alarm first,
at the premises and if no one is at the premises then only after the primary
and/or secondary telephone contact has been contacted.
   E.   Response To Alarm: When requested to do so by city emergency services,
fire, police, or designee, the alarm user, alarm responsible representative, or
alarm agent shall respond to the premises of an activated alarm system within
twenty (20) minutes for the purpose of assisting city emergency personnel in
determining the reason for the activation, resetting the alarm system, and
securing the premises. An alarm user, responsible representative, or alarm
agent shall respond to the scene as expeditiously as safety permits, without
unnecessary or unreasonable delay.
   F.   Interference With System: No person shall use the public fire alarm
except when an alarm of fire is given, or with the permission of the chief or
assistant chief of the fire department, nor shall any person injure, in any
way, any of the fire alarm boxes, bells, poles, wires or other appliances
connected with the public fire alarm system of the city.
   G.   Responsibility Of Payment For False Alarms: The registered property
owner of the structure where emergency services or city equipment responds to
the on premises alarm will be responsible for payment of all false alarm fees.
      1.   One false alarm by the same system in a running twelve (12) month
period will not be charged a false alarm fee.
      2.   After the second false alarm by the same system in a running twelve
(12) month period, the property owner or customer will provide a certificate
verifying that the city licensed alarm system company has inspected the system
and found the system is functioning properly or has been repaired and is now
functioning properly. Until the certification is completed and submitted to
emergency services there will be no response by emergency services unless the
chief of police, fire chief, or designee orders an immediate police or fire
response when an in person call, verification from a person at or near the
premises, or other independent evidence shows a need for immediate police or
fire assistance at the premises.
      3.   After the third and subsequent false alarm by the same system in a
running twelve (12) month period, the property owner or customer will be
notified of the amount of the false alarm fee.
   H.   False Alarm Fee: A false alarm fee will be charged by the city when
emergency services or city equipment responds to a false emergency services,
fire, or police alarm reported from the same system within a running twelve
(12) month period. (Ord. 14-09, 9-15-2014)
9-1-5: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to smoke any form of tobacco while lying upon a
bed in any hotel, motel or other public rooming establishment within the city 1
. (Ord. A-206, 2-20-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See also
  title 4, chapter 5 of this code.
9-1-6: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definitions:
 
           Includes any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance
           or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
           producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion,
           deflagration or detonation, and includes skyrockets, roman candles,
           helicopters, daygo bombs, blank cartridges, toy cannons, toy canes
           or toy guns in which explosives other than toy paper caps are used;
           the type of balloons which require fire underneath to propel the
           same; firecrackers, torpedoes, sparklers or other fireworks of like
           construction; and any fireworks containing any explosive or
FIREWORKS: flammable compound or any tablets or other device containing any
           explosive substance. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
           applying to toy paper caps containing not more than twenty five
           hundredths (0.25) of a grain of explosive composition per cap, nor
           to the manufacture, storage, sale, or use of signals necessary for
           the safe operation of railroads or other classes of public or
           private transportation, nor apply to the military or navy forces of
           the United States or of this state, or to peace officers, nor as
           prohibiting the sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonials or
           theatrical or athletic events.
 
   B.   Permitted Public Displays:
      1.   The fire marshal and the city manager shall review and thereafter
deny, approve, or approve with conditions all supervised public displays of
fireworks by the city or other organizations or groups of individuals upon
completion of the required application and submission of appropriate fees as
may be established by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Each such display shall:
         a.   Be handled by a licensed, bonded pyrotechnic operator to be
approved by the city fire marshal;
         b.   Be located, discharged or fired such that the display, in the
opinion of the city fire marshal, shall not be hazardous to property or
endanger any person or persons; and
         c.   Clearly post a "NO SMOKING" warning within fifty feet (50') of
the staging and discharge area established for the display, and no one may
smoke within the defined area.
      3.   Applications for permits shall be made in writing at least fifteen
(15) days in advance of the date of the display and shall contain, at a
minimum:
         a.   A map of the proposed display venue, including the temporary
storage site, the parking and spectator viewing areas, the fireworks discharge
point, location of structures, roads, streets and alleys within a one thousand
(1,000) yard radius, overhead obstructions and other hazards;
         b.   The name of the licensed and bonded operator and his/her contact
information;
         c.   The location of all fire hydrants, water spigots or other access
points for water;
         d.   Proof of general liability insurance in an amount acceptable to
the city and including the city as an additional insured;
         e.   The name of the association, entity, organization or group
organizing the display and contact information for the individual who will be
responsible during the event;
         f.   A complete list of the fireworks intended for use in the display
along with their projectile range, if any;
         g.   The location, date and time of the display and the written
consent from the landowner; and
         h.   A detailed safety plan for the event.
      4.   Upon issuance of the permit, and only then, sales, possession, use
and distribution of fireworks for such display, as detailed in the permit,
shall be lawful for that purpose only.
      5.   No permit granted under this section shall be transferable.
      6.   Following the public display, the permittee and the operator shall
be responsible for clean up of the display site, including disposal of all
discharged fireworks and all non discharged or "dud" fireworks in a safe
manner.
      7.   A permit may be revoked by the fire marshal when any of the
conditions under which the permit was granted change, when a hazardous
condition is determined to exist, when, in the best judgment of the fire
marshal, such permit must be withdrawn in the interests of public safety, or
when the permittee has failed to comply with the conditions of the permit.
      8.   As a condition of the city granting a permit, the permittee and
operator shall be required to replace, subject to availability, a portion of
the fireworks to be used in the display with low or no perchlorate fireworks in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
2021 10%
2022 20%
2023 30%
2024 40%
2025 50%
 
      The permittee and operator must provide written documentation acceptable
to the city establishing that low or no-perchlorate fireworks are not available
or are price prohibitive.
   C.   Sale And Discharge:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   No individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association
shall possess for sale, sell, or offer for sale fireworks within city limits.
         b.   No parent, guardian, or custodian of any child under the age of
majority shall knowingly permit or consent to the possession or discharge of
fireworks by any child under the age of majority without proper supervision.
Possession or discharge by any child under the age of majority within city
limits shall be prima facie evidence of the knowing permission or consent of
such parent, guardian, or custodian.
         c.   No fireworks may be discharged:
            (1)   Within the boundaries of or within three hundred feet (300')
of any park owned or maintained by the city without a public display permit,
except as otherwise provided in this section;
            (2)   Upon any public street, alley, road or right-of-way, except
as otherwise provided in this section;
            (3)   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any hospital, nursing or
assisted living facility;
            (4)   Under or upon a motor vehicle, whether moving or not; and
            (5)   Within three hundred (300') of any gas station, gas, oil or
propane storage facility or other area which is highly flammable by nature.
      2.   Allowed Discharges:
         a.   Subject to the limitations contained in this section, permitted
fireworks, as listed in subsection C2d below, may be discharged within city
limits only on private property of the owner, or with the owner's permission,
or on paved city streets that are not arterial streets or collectors when such
discharge is in a safe and sane manner and limited to:
            (1)   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. on July 3; and
            (2)   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and eleven fifty-nine
o’clock (11:59) P.M. on July 4.
         b.   As used in this subsection, the phrase "safe and sane" refers to
actions that do not endanger life, limb, or property of those in the area of
the discharge.
         c.   Nothing in allowing the limited discharge of fireworks within the
city relieves the individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association of
its responsibility for any injury or damage caused to individuals or property
by the discharge of fireworks.
         d.   Permitted fireworks are of the following type of "consumer
fireworks" among those listed in federal law:
            (1)   A cardboard or heavy paper cylindrical tube or cone that:
               (A)   Produces a shower of color and sparks that reach a maximum
of fifteen feet (15');
               (B)   May whistle or pop; and
               (C)   Is not designed to explode or leave the ground.
            (2)   A pyrotechnic wheel device:
               (A)   May be attached to a post or a tree; and;
               (B)   Contains up to six "driver" units or tubes.
            (3)   Any device that:
               (A)   Spins, jumps, or emits popping sounds when placed on the
ground;
               (B)   Does not exceed a height of fifteen feet (15') when
discharged; and
               (C)   Does not travel laterally more than ten feet (10') on a
smooth surface when discharged.
            (4)   Sparklers under twelve inches (12") in length which do not
have a magnesium make up, glow worms, snakes, party poppers, trick noisemakers.
         e.   When, in the opinion of the fire marshal or fire chief, drought
or other conditions exist which, coupled with the discharge of fireworks, could
pose a hazard to persons or property, the fire marshal or chief shall issue a
ban on the discharge of all fireworks until such time as the condition(s)
causing the ban cease to exist.
         f.   Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association
discharging fireworks under this section shall, upon such discharge, be
responsible for the clean-up of the discharge site, including disposal of all
discharged fireworks, all non-discharged or "dud" fireworks, and all associated
debris in a safe manner.
         g.   The safe and sane discharge of fireworks in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall not be deemed a violation of section
5-2-5 of this code.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association
violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, punished by a fine of not less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first
offense, and not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second or
subsequent offense or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
to be a separate offense. In addition, any individual, firm, partnership,
corporation, or association violating the provisions of this section shall be
deemed to have committed a municipal infraction, the penalty for which is set
forth in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
      2.   In the case of violation by a firm, partnership, corporation, or
association, the manager or members of the partnership or responsible officers
or agents shall be deemed prima facie responsible, individually, and subject to
the penalties as provided herein.
      3.   Any damages caused or injuries sustained as a result of any
violation of this chapter shall be ordered paid as restitution as part of any
conviction for any violation, to the extent of the court's jurisdiction.
      4.   The court may order reimbursement of the costs of enforcement,
investigation, fire suppression services and overtime related to a violation
upon conviction, to the extent of the court's jurisdiction. (Ord. 14-01, 3-3-
2014; amd. Ord. 21-05, 5-3-2021)
9-1-7: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Installation Required: The owner and/or developer of any new
subdivisions or areas within the city planned for the construction of new homes
or commercial buildings shall, prior to the commencement of construction,
install or cause to be installed a fire hydrant or fire hydrants, size, model
and/or type approved by the city council, within three hundred feet (300') of
all the proposed construction so as to provide adequate fire protection during
the period of construction of such homes or commercial buildings.
   B.   Location: Fire hydrants shall be so located, with the approval of the
city council, so as to ensure that there will be at least one fire hydrant
within three hundred feet (300') of each home and/or commercial building.
   C.   Fitting Specifications: Fire hydrants installed for subdivisions and
areas planned for the construction of in excess of four (4) homes or family
units shall provide and be fitted with at least one 6-inch steamer fitting
outlet and two (2) 21/2- inch outlets.
   D.   Designation On Plats Required: All subdivision plats for new
subdivisions shall show the location of each such fire hydrant as well as the
location of all water and sewer lines and taps within such subdivision. (Ord.
A-318, 11-21-1977)
9-1-8: FIRE RESTRICTIONS:
The Fire Chief is authorized to enact fire restrictions for the City of
Whitefish by order at any time. At the next regularly scheduled meeting, the
City Council shall decide whether to enact such restrictions by ordinance.
(Ord. 17-25, 9-5-2017)
CHAPTER 2
EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Findings And Authorization
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Permit Requirements
9-2-4: Inspections
9-2-5: Blasting Regulations
9-2-6: Radio Frequency Restrictions
9-2-7: Transportation Regulations
9-2-8: Handling Regulations
9-2-9: Storage
9-2-10: Drilling
9-2-11: Loading Regulations
9-2-12: Wiring
9-2-13: Firing Regulations
9-2-14: Inspection After Blasting
9-2-15: Misfires
9-2-16: Records
9-2-17: Responsibility And Liability
9-2-18: Violations
9-2-1: FINDINGS AND AUTHORIZATION:
The city, pursuant to authority conferred by Montana code 7-33-4205 and other
laws of the state, finds it is to the best interests of the city to regulate
the storage, transportation, types and use of explosives within the
jurisdiction of the city by requiring a permit and inspection of any proposed
use sites, storage facilities, means of transportation, methods of use, safety
procedures, etc., in conjunction with the use of approved explosives. (Ord. A-
348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply throughout this chapter:
EXPLOSIVES: Any commercially available chemical compound, mixture or device,
the primary or common purpose of which is to function by explosive, i.e., with
substantially instantaneous release of gas and heat and as defined as a class A
explosive by the federal government.
TEMPORARY STORAGE: The attended storage of explosives for twenty four (24)
hours or less. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Fees And Conditions: Prior to the use, storage or transportation of any
explosives within the city, the owner or his designated representative (user)
shall secure a permit from the office of the city clerk. This permit shall be
issued only upon proof and/or certification that the following applicable
conditions have been met:
      1.   Payment of a thirty five dollar ($35.00) fee to cover administration
and inspection costs;
      2.   Presentation of a copy of the owner/user's current federal
explosives license/permit;
      3.   Certification that all provisions of this chapter have or will be
met;
      4.   Certification that all applicable federal and state requirements
have been met;
      5.   Presentation of owner's/user's full name, business phone number(s)
and emergency phone number(s);
      6.   For any project that requires the transportation, storage or use of
one thousand (1,000) or more pounds of explosives the owner/user shall present
proof that he has a minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) of public
liability and property damage insurance covering any and all explosive
operations;
      7.   Proof of permission by the property owner(s) that an explosive
magazine(s) may be located on said property;
      8.   Proof of permission by the property owner(s) that an explosive can
be temporarily located on said property;
      9.   Written presentation of the exact location where the explosive will
be used.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Any vehicle in full compliance with all applicable federal and state
requirements that is in transit through the city via U.S. Highway 93 and will
not be within the city for over one hour nor leave U.S. Highway 93, does not
need to secure a permit. Under no circumstances shall any such explosives be
left unattended.
      2.   The storage, transportation and use of five (5) pounds or less of
black powder for the private use of individuals in association with its use for
black powder firearms are exempt from all provisions of this chapter.
   C.   City's Rights During Emergency: The issuance of a permit authorizes the
city to take whatever means it deems necessary to protect the public in the
event of an emergency when the owner/user cannot be located within a reasonable
amount of time. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-4: INSPECTIONS:
The owner/user must make available during normal business hours the temporary
storage facilities, work site(s) and transportation vehicle(s) for inspection
by the city or its authorized representative(s). These areas also must be
opened for inspection during any emergency that may arise and require its
immediate inspection by the city in order to ensure the safety of the public.
(Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-5: BLASTING REGULATIONS:
   A.   The storage, transportation and use of explosives shall be performed in
compliance with all local, state and federal laws and under the supervision of
a competent, experienced person.
   B.   The owner/user shall notify the city in advance of the use of
explosives on the job.
   C.   All blasts shall be fired electrically with an electric blasting
machine or properly designed electric power source except as provided in
section
9-2-6 of this chapter.
   D.   Where detonating cord is used as the detonating agent, the detonating
cord shall be fired with an electric blasting cap, except as provided in
section
9-2-6 of this chapter.
   E.   Delay electric detonators or detonating cord connections shall be used
for all delayed blasts.
   F.   Waterproof electric blasting caps or detonating cord shall be used for
subaqueous blasting.
   G.   All operations involving the handling or use of explosives shall be
discontinued and personnel moved to a safe area during approach or progress of
either a thunderstorm or severe dust storm.
   H.   Blasting machines, regardless of types, shall be maintained and used
only as prescribed by the manufacturer.
   I.   Blasting machines shall be tested prior to use as periodically
thereafter as prescribed by the manufacturer.
   J.   Blasting machines shall be secured, and accessible only, to the
blaster.
   K.   Warning signs shall be provided at points of access to the blasting
area.
   L.   When energy for blasting is taken from power circuits, the voltage
shall not exceed five hundred fifty (550) volts. The wiring and controlling
arrangements shall conform to the following:
      1.   The blasting switch shall be an ungrounded Underwriters' Laboratory
listed, enclosed, externally operated double-pole, double-throw switch which
when locked in the open position will shunt the firing lines.
      2.   A grounded switch shall be installed between the blasting switch and
the power circuit at a distance not less than six feet (6') from the blasting
switch.
      3.   A lightening gap of at least six feet (6') shall be provided between
the two (2) switches. The gap connection shall be made by cable, plug and
receptacle.
   M.   The cable between switches shall be disconnected and both switches
shall be locked in the open position immediately after firing the shot and
before any person is permitted to return to the blasting area.
   N.   Key to the switches shall remain in the possession of the blaster at
all times.
   O.   Insulated solid core wires of appropriate gauge in good condition shall
be used for all lines.
   P.   Sufficient firing line shall be provided to permit the blaster to be
located at a safe distance from the blast.
   Q.   The use of black powder shall be prohibited.
   R.   All loading and firing shall be directed and supervised by one
designated person. All holes loaded on a shift should be fired on the same
shift whenever possible and no loaded holes shall be left unattended overnight
or until the next shift.
   S.   Blasting operations in the proximity of overhead power lines,
communications lines, utility services or other structures shall not be carried
on until the operators and/or owners have been notified and measures for safe
control have been taken.
   T.   Blasting operations in or adjacent to cofferdams, piers or underwater
structures shall be carefully planned with full consideration for all forces
and conditions involved.
   U.   Dynamite used in tunnel blasting shall be fume class I.
   V.   Surface blasting shall be confined to daylight hours unless otherwise
permitted by the city. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-6: RADIO FREQUENCY RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Radio, television and radar transmitters create fields of electrical
energy in the air surrounding their antennas that can, under exceptional
circumstances, detonate electric blasting caps. Electrical blasting operations
or storage of electrical detonators shall be prohibited in the vicinity of
radio frequency transmitters except where the following clearances can be
observed:
   Amplitude Modified (AM) Transmitters
Transmitter Power  Minimum Distance
(Watts)            (Feet)
Transmitter Power  Minimum Distance
(Watts)            (Feet)
5 -      2         100
25 -     50        150
50 -     100       220
100 -    250       350
250 -    500       450
500 -    1,000     650
1,000 -  2,500     1,000
2,500 -  5,000     1,500
5,000 -  10,000    2,200
10,000 - 25,000    3,500
25,000 - 50,000    5,000
50,000 - 100,000   7,000
 
   Frequency Modulated (FM) Mobile Transmitters
 
Transmitter Power  Minimum Distance
(Watts)            (Feet)
1 -   10           5
10 -  30           10
30 -  60           15
60 -  250          30
250 - 600          45
 
   Very High Frequency (VHF)
   Television and FM Broadcasting
Transmitter Power  Minimum Distance
(Watts)            (Feet)
Transmitter Power    Minimum Distance
(Watts)              (Feet)
1 -       10         5
10 -      100        20
100 -     1,000      60
1,000 -   10,000     200
10,000 -  100,000    600
100,000 - 1,000,000  2,000
 
   Ultra High Frequency (UHF)
   Television Transmitters
Transmitter Power  Minimum Distance
(Watts)            (Feet)
Transmitter Power      Minimum Distance
(Watts)                (Feet)
1 -         10         2.5
10 -        100        8
100 -       1,000      25
1,000 -     10,000     80
10,000 -    100,000    250
100,000 -   1,000,000  800
1,000,000 - 5,000,000  2,000
 
   B.   When necessary to perform blasting distances less than those shown in
tables, detonating fuse shall be used with a nonelectric cap or primer. (Ord.
A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-7: TRANSPORTATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Vehicles used for the transportation of explosives shall not be loaded
beyond rated capacity and the explosives shall be so secured to prevent
shifting of load or dislodgement from the vehicle in transit. In all open-body
types of vehicles, the explosives shall be covered with a fire-resistant
tarpaulin.
   B.   Vehicles transporting explosives shall be marked in accordance with
state laws, or if no law exists, vehicles shall be marked with reflectorized
placards on all four (4) sides with the word "EXPLOSIVES" in white letters not
less than six inches (6") high on a red background.
   C.   Blasting cans or other exploders shall not be transported in the same
vehicle with other explosives.
   D.   All vehicles used for transportation of explosives shall be in charge
of and operated by a person who is physically fit, careful, reliable, able to
read and write the English language and not addicted to the use of intoxicants
or narcotics.
   E.   No metal, metal tools, carbides, oils, matches, firearms, electric
storage batteries, flammable substances, acids or oxidizing or corrosive
compounds shall be carried in the bed or body of any vehicle transporting
explosives.
   F.   Vehicles to be used in the transportation of explosives shall be in
good repair. When steel or part steel bodies are used, fire resistant and
nonsparking cushioning materials shall be employed to separate the containers
of explosives from the metal.
   G.   Vehicles transporting explosives shall be equipped with not less than
two (2) fire extinguishers, each having a rating of 6-BC, placed at strategic
points, filled and ready for immediate use, and of a make approved by the
national fire protection association.
   H.   A vehicle containing explosives shall not be taken into a garage or
repair shop or parked in congested areas or stored overnight, or at any other
time, in a public garage or similar building. Vehicles transporting explosives
are not to be left unattended during transit.
   I.   All vehicles shall be checked before transporting explosives and all
electric wiring completely protected and securely fastened to prevent short
circuiting.
   J.   Vehicles transporting explosives shall be operated with extreme care
and shall not be driven at a speed greater than the legal speed limit. Full
stops shall be made at approaches to all railroad crossings and main highways
and the vehicle shall not proceed until it is known that the way is clear.
   K.   All vehicles transporting explosives on public highways, roads or other
streets shall have an authorized driver and helper. No person other than the
authorized driver and helper shall be permitted to ride on trucks transporting
explosives or detonators.
   L.   No vehicle shall be refueled while explosives are on the motor vehicle
except in an emergency.
   M.   Persons actively engaged in the transportation, handling or other use
of explosives shall not smoke or carry on their person or in the vehicle,
matches, firearms, ammunition or other flame-producing devices. (Ord. A-348, 6-
4-1979)
9-2-8: HANDLING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Containers of explosives shall be opened only by means of nonsparking
tools or instruments.
   B.   Explosives shall only be removed from containers as they are needed for
immediate use and carried to the blasting area in nonmetallic containers.
   C.   Explosives and detonators shall be taken to the blasting area in
separate nonmetallic containers.
   D.   Primers shall not be made up in excess of immediate need for holes to
be loaded.
   E.   Primers shall not be made up in or near magazines or large quantities
of explosives.
   F.   After the loading of a blast is completed, all excess explosives and
detonators shall be removed to a safe location or returned at once to the
storage magazines, observing the same rules as when being conveyed to the
blasting area.
   G.   All empty explosive containers and packing material shall be disposed
of in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-9: STORAGE:
It is unlawful for any person to keep, store or permit to be kept or stored,
explosives within the city limits or within three (3) miles thereof; provided,
however, that the owner/user may temporarily keep or store explosives within
the city limits or within three (3) miles thereof such amounts that may be
needed for the following day's use, only in blasting on a particular project.
(Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-10: DRILLING:
   A.   All drill holes shall be of greater diameter than the diameter of
cartridges of explosive used.
   B.   Drilling shall not be done in an area already blasted until all
remaining butts of old holes are examined for unexploded charges and the total
area has been thoroughly examined to make sure that there are no additional
unexploded charges remaining. A drill, pick or bar should never be inserted in
such holes even if examination fails to disclose explosives.
   C.   Drilling and loading operations generally shall not be carried on in
the same area.
   D.   Where drilling adjacent to previously loaded areas or holes is
essential, the minimum clearance shall be equal to or greater than the deepest
hole in the area. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-11: LOADING REGULATIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   The loading or loaded areas shall be kept free of any equipment,
operations or persons not essential to loading.
      2.   Tamping shall be done with a wooden stick having no metal parts.
Cartridges shall be seated by even, steady pressure only.
      3.   All loaded holes or charges shall be checked and definitely located
before firing.
      4.   Reloading of sprung holes shall be prohibited until it is definitely
established that the hole is cool.
      5.   Cartridges shall be primed only in the number required for a single
round of blasting. Detonators shall be inserted only in a hole in the end of a
cartridge prepared especially for that purpose. Holes shall be made with a
sharpened wooden stick.
      6.   All charges shall be covered with blasting mats before firing, where
blasting is likely to cause injury or damage by flying rock or debris. Where
steel mats are used, care shall be taken to keep them from touching bare
connections in the electric blasting circuits.
      7.   Detonating cord shall be cut from supply reel before attaching to
explosive or tamping in hole.
      8.   After drilling, a cooling period of at least one hour shall be
observed before the hole is loaded. If, for some reason, this procedure cannot
be followed, then the hole should be checked for temperature or cooled with
water. No dynamite should be loaded if the temperature is in excess of one
hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F).
   B.   Marine Loading: The following requirements shall be observed for use of
dynamite and/or electric detonators:
      1.   Only nonferrous tubes loaded with explosives and primed for
insertion in drilled holes shall be permitted.
      2.   Loaded tubes shall not be permitted to be taken from the loading
room until a hole is ready for loading.
      3.   Loaded tubes only in amounts necessary to load two (2) holes shall
be permitted in the loading room.
      4.   Detonators only in the amounts necessary to load two (2) holes shall
be permitted in the loading room.
      5.   Opened containers of explosives only in amounts necessary to load
tubes for two (2) holes shall be permitted to be kept in the loading room.
      6.   In loading drill holes with loaded or primed tubes, the tamping or
ramming shall be done with a wooden stick or nonferrous metal rod. (Ord. A-348,
6-4-1979)
9-2-12: WIRING:
   A.   Each electric blasting cap shall be tested with an approved
galvanometer before being placed in primer and after testing the leg wires of
electric blasting caps, they shall be short circuited by twisting the bare ends
together and shall remain so twisted until ready to be connected into the
circuit preparatory to connecting to the firing line.
   B.   All caps in a blast shall be of the same manufacture.
   C.   The firing line shall not be smaller than no. 14B and S gauge copper
wire, no. 12B and S gauge aluminum, or equivalent.
   D.   The number of electric blasting cans used in a circuit shall not exceed
the tested capacity of the blasting machine or power source.
   E.   The circuit, including all caps, shall be tested with an approved
galvanometer before being connected to firing line.
   F.   No lead wire shall be connected to the circuit until it has been
grounded to dissipate any static charge.
   G.   The complete circuit, lead wires and firing line, shall be checked with
an approved galvanometer at the terminals to be hooked onto the blasting
machine or other power source.
   H.   No firing line shall be connected to a blasting machine or other power
source until the shot is to be fired. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-13: FIRING REGULATIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Prior to the firing of a shot, all persons in the danger area shall
be warned of the blast and ordered to a safe distance from the area. The blast
shall not be fired until it is absolutely certain that every person has
retreated to a safe distance and that no one remains on a dangerous location.
      2.   All blasting operations shall use blasting signals specified by the
state or, in the absence of state requirements, the following signals shall be
used:
         a.   Warning signal: a one minute series of long whistles five (5)
minutes prior to the blast signal;
         b.   Blast signal: a series of short whistles one minute prior to the
shot;
         c.   All clear signal: a prolonged whistle following the inspection of
the blast area.
Signals for blasting shall be conspicuously posted. Competent flaggers shall be
posted at all access points to danger areas such as roads, walkways, railroads
and water routes.
   B.   Marine Firing:
      1.   Prior to firing, the drill boat or vessel on the work shall be moved
a safe distance from the blasting range or area. Prior to, and while the drill
boat or vessel is being moved from the blasting area, a series of short signals
by horn or whistle, similar to the usual navigation warning signals, shall be
given. On the completion of the firing of the blast, a long whistle or horn
signal shall be given.
      2.   No blast shall be fired while any vessel under way is closer than
one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') to the blasting area and those on board
vessels or craft moored or anchored within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') must be notified before a blast is fired.
      3.   No blast shall be fired closer than two hundred fifty feet (250') to
another boat or vessel containing an explosive magazine. Persons engaged in
drilling operations on another drill boat within five hundred feet (500') shall
leave the drill frames for cover in the event that any complete holes in their
vicinity have been loaded.
      4.   No blast shall be fired while any swimming or diving operations are
in progress in the vicinity of the blasting area. If such operations are in
progress, signals and arrangements shall be agreed upon to assure that no blast
will be fired while a diver or other person is in the water. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-
1979)
9-2-14: INSPECTION AFTER BLASTING:
   A.   Immediately after the blast has been fired, the firing line shall be
disconnected from the blasting machine or, where power switches are used, they
shall be locked open.
   B.   A thorough inspection shall be made by the blaster to determine if all
charges have been exploded. Other persons shall not be allowed to return to the
area of the blast until an all clear signal is given.
   C.   All wires shall be carefully traced and search made for unexploded
cartridges.
   D.   Loose pieces of rock and other debris shall be scaled down from the
sides of the face of excavation and the area made safe before proceeding with
the work. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-15: MISFIRES:
   A.   If broken wires, faulty connections or short circuits are determined as
the cause of a misfire, the proper repairs shall be made, the firing line
reconnected and the charge fired. However, this shall be done only after a
careful inspection has been made of burden remaining in such holes once no hole
shall be so refired when the burden has been dangerously weakened by other
shots, or when such refiring is prohibited by the state.
   B.   The handling of all misfires shall be in accordance with provisions as
listed in the Handbook of Electric Blasting, latest edition, as published by
the Atlas Powder Company.
   C.   The city shall be notified immediately in the event that any misfire
cannot safely be refired. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-1979)
9-2-16: RECORDS:
   A.   A detailed record book of each owner's/user's operations shall be kept
showing the owner's and/or user's name, address, phone number, blaster
(powderman) and period of time the record book covers.
   B.   The record book may be either hardbound or paperback with consecutively
numbered pages.
   C.   The record book shall show the following information for each blasting
operation or round shot:
      1.   Date;
      2.   General location;
      3.   A diagram of all hole locations with north arrow and approximate
location within the sixteenth area of that section. Township and range shall
also be indicated;
      4.   Indication of the type of hole: vertical or horizontal;
      5.   Approximate distances between bore holes and general configurations
shall also be shown (burden and spacing);
      6.   Height of face, if applicable;
      7.   Depth of hole(s);
      8.   Diameter of hole(s);
      9.   Grade, manufacturer and pounds of explosives in each hole; also
diameter of cartridges, if used;
      10.   Stemming material and depth;
      11.   Type and manufacturer of detonator(s) and/or primer(s);
      12.   Delay period(s);
      13.   Time loading began and was finished;
      14.   Type of blasting machine;
      15.   Type and size of connecting and leading wires;
      16.   Method of connections (parallel, series or series-parallel);
      17.   Number of detonators in a series;
      18.   Whether or not shot was seismic recorded and by whom;
      19.   Time shot was fired and by whom.
   D.   Two (2) copies of all blasts as recorded in the record book shall be
given to the city clerk within ten (10) days of any such blast.
   E.   The "Blasting Record Book", as published by the Atlas Powder Company,
Dallas, TX 75251, satisfies all requirements of this section. (Ord. A-348, 6-4-
1979)
9-2-17: RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY:
   A.   It is the owner's/user's responsibility to indemnify the city and its
agents against any and all damages that may arise from such explosive
operations.
   B.   It is the responsibility of the owner/user to secure the written
permission from the legal owners of any property where said blasting operations
are to take place.
   C.   It is the owner's/user's responsibility to contact any and all utility
owners and/or property owners or residents in the immediate area that such
blasting operations shall take place. The blasting owner/user shall notify such
utilities and residents at least six (6) hours in advance as to where and when
such blasting operations shall take place.
   D.   The owner/user shall secure the written permission of any and all
property owners prior to placing any magazine on said property. (Ord. A-348, 6-
4-1979)
9-2-18: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished therefor as provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be deemed to have committed a municipal infraction, the penalty
for which is set forth in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 09-20, 10-19-2009)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Adoption Of Technical Codes And Administrative Regulations
10-1-2: Building Accessibility Standards
10-1-3: Construction Facilities
10-1-4: Building Permits
10-1-5: Fire Prevention Program Fee
10-1-1: ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL CODES AND ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Adoption Procedures: The current and future editions of the model
technical building construction codes and all accompanying appendices,
amendments and modifications adopted or required to be adopted by the Building
Codes Bureau, Montana Department of Labor and Industry (or its successor), as
set out in the Administrative Rules of Montana, shall be adopted by reference
by administrative order of the City Manager, except for any regulations not
applicable to local government jurisdictions. Except as otherwise stated
herein, these codes are applicable to all buildings within the Building Code
enforcement area of the City including, but not limited to, residential
buildings containing less than five (5) dwelling units or their attached-to
structures, any farm or ranch building and any private garage or private
storage structure used only for the owner's own use as provided by Montana
Code. Until such codes are adopted by administrative order, those codes
currently in effect shall remain in effect. Upon adoption of new codes by
administrative order, the predecessor codes shall automatically be repealed.
   B.   Copies On File: One (1) copy of each Code shall be on file in the
Office of the City Clerk. To the extent the City varies from the codes
referenced in subsection A of this section, any such changes are on file with
the City Clerk.
   C.   Future Amendments: The City Manager shall issue an administrative order
adopting any codes or amendments adopted by the Building Codes Bureau which
apply to local government jurisdictions within thirty (30) days after the date
that the bureau notifies the City of said amendments. (Ord. 17-26, 10-2-2017)
10-1-2: BUILDING ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS:
There is hereby adopted by the City Council for the purpose of establishing
uniform standards for the design, construction and alteration of buildings so
that physically handicapped persons will have ready access to and use of them,
the building accessibility rules as set forth in ARM 24.301.901 through
24.301.905, together with all subsequent amendments and additions thereto, as
well as the building accessibility rules set forth in Federal law. (Ord. 17-26,
10-2-2017)
10-1-3: CONSTRUCTION FACILITIES:
   A.   Temporary Facilities: It shall be the duty of every owner who shall
have the direct and immediate supervision or control of the construction or
remodeling of any building and/or construction site within the City's building
codes jurisdictional area to provide toilets in or convenient to such building
and/or construction site and maintain the same for the convenience of all the
employees being employed on or at such building and/or construction site. Where
a facility is not available, temporary toilets shall be provided.
   B.   Enforcement: It is hereby made the duty of the building official, his
deputy, or other authorities in the City, through the City Attorney, in case of
failure of such owner to promptly comply with this section, to take the
necessary steps to enforce the provisions of this section.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined as provided in the general penalty
in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Such person shall also be deemed to have
committed a Municipal infraction and shall be assessed the civil penalty set
forth in section
1-4-4 of this Code for each offense. For each separate incident, the City shall
elect to treat the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but
not both. If a violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation
as a misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice
versa. (Ord. 17-26, 10-2-2017)
10-1-4: BUILDING PERMITS:
Any owner of property who fails to obtain the appropriate building permit, and
anyone performing construction services of any kind for an owner of property
who fails to verify that the appropriate building permit has been obtained,
will be responsible for and will be required to pay a fee in an amount equal to
the applicable building permit fee. Any person owning property that fails to
obtain a building permit, and any person performing construction services of
any kind for such person who fails to verify that a building permit has been
obtained, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and deemed to have committed
a Municipal infraction, and each such person shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of
any provision of this section is committed, continued or permitted. For each
separate incident, the City shall elect to treat the violation as a misdemeanor
or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a violation is repeated, the City
may treat the initial violation as a misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a
Municipal infraction, or vice versa. (Ord. 17-26, 10-2-2017)
10-1-5: FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM FEE:
The City hereby establishes a Fire Prevention Program fee, the funds from which
shall be used to partially offset development related costs incurred by the
Whitefish Fire Department. The Fire Prevention Program fee shall be equal to
twenty nine percent (29%) of the fee currently charged by the Building
Department as the building permit fee. The Fire Prevention Program fees shall
be collected by the Building Department at the time that it collects the
building permit fee. The building permit fee shall be reduced by an amount
equal to the Fire Prevention Program fee. The City Manager is directed to
enforce the collection of the Fire Prevention Program fee upon the effective
date of this section. Subsequent increases or decreases in the amount of the
Fire Prevention Program fee shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 17-26, 10-2-2017)
CHAPTER 2
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Findings And Authority
10-2-2: Assessment Of Impact Fees
10-2-3: Exemptions
10-2-4: Credits
10-2-5: Adjustments For Other Revenue
10-2-6: Appeals
10-2-7: Establishment Of Impact Fee Accounts
10-2-8: Refunds
10-2-9: Use Of Funds
10-2-10: Component Of Budget
10-2-11: Review
10-2-12: Impact Fee Rates
10-2-13: Administrative Fees
10-2-1: FINDINGS AND AUTHORITY:
   The City Council of the City of Whitefish (the "Council") hereby finds and
determines that new growth and development, including, but not limited to, new
residential, commercial, retail, and office development in the City of
Whitefish will create additional demand and need for public facilities in the
City of Whitefish, and the Council finds that new growth and development should
pay a proportionate share of the cost of new facilities needed to serve the new
growth and development. The City of Whitefish has conducted extensive studies
documenting the procedures for measuring the impact of new development on
public facilities, has caused to be prepared the "Service Area Report and
Impact Fee Study" dated September 28, 2023, and hereby incorporates these
studies into this chapter by reference. Therefore, pursuant to Montana Code
Annotated sections 7-6-1601 through 7-6-1604, the Council adopts this chapter
to assess impact fees for water, wastewater, paved trails, parks and
recreation, police, fire, and City Hall facilities. The provisions of this
chapter shall be liberally construed in order to carry out the purposes of the
Council in establishing the impact fee program. The City Council further finds
that it has fully complied with the procedure and the analysis required by
Montana Code Annotated sections 7-6-1601 through 7-6-1604 and finds that the
impact fees authorized by this chapter are reasonable, equitable, and in full
compliance with the sections of State law referenced above.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
10-2-2: ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The City shall collect impact fees, based on the rates set forth by
City Council resolution from any applicant seeking a permit from the City for
any development within the City, where such development requires the issuance
of a building permit and is subject to impact fees. This shall include, but is
not limited to, the development of residential, commercial, retail, and office,
land, parking lots and includes the expansion of existing uses that creates a
demand for additional public facilities, as well as a change in existing use
that creates a demand for additional public facilities.
   B.   For any alteration, expansion, or replacement of an existing building
or dwelling unit, or addition of a new residential housing unit, the impact fee
shall be reduced by an amount equal to the current impact fee rate for the
prior structure.
   C.   For mixed use developments, impact fees shall be imposed for the
proportionate share of each land use based on the applicable measurement in the
impact fee rates set forth by City Council resolution.
   D.   Impact fees shall be assessed at the time the complete application for
a building permit is submitted for each unit in the development, using the
impact fee rates then in effect. Impact fees shall be paid at the time the
building permit is issued by the City, except for building permits with one
hundred percent (100%) housing units permanently deed restricted for
affordability. Impact fees assessed on building permits with one hundred
percent (100%) of housing units permanently deed restricted for affordability
shall be paid immediately prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   E.   Applicants that have been awarded credits prior to the submittal of the
complete building permit application pursuant to section
10-2-4 of this chapter, shall submit, along with the complete building permit
application, a copy of the letter or certificate prepared by the City Manager
or designee pursuant to section
10-2-4 of this chapter setting forth the dollar amount of the credit awarded.
Impact fees, as determined after the application of appropriate credits, shall
be collected from the fee payer at the time the building permit is issued for
each unit in the development.
   F.   Where the impact fees imposed are determined by the square footage or
meter size of the development, the payment of impact fees shall be considered a
deposit from the fee payer, pursuant to section 10-2-3 or 10-2-4 of this
chapter. The deposit shall be based on an estimate, submitted by the fee payer,
of the size and type of structure which will be constructed on the property.
For impact fees based on meter size the City will determine the appropriate
meter size in accordance with the rules and regulations then in effect. In the
absence of an estimate provided by the fee payer, the City shall calculate a
deposit amount based on the maximum allowable density permissible on the
property. If the final square footage or required meter size of the development
is in excess of the initial estimate, any difference will be due prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, using the rate in effect at that time.
The fee payer shall pay any such difference plus interest, calculated at the
interest rate which the City of Whitefish then earns on impact fees. If the
final square footage or required meter size is less than the initial estimate,
the City shall give a credit for the difference, plus interest at the interest
rate which the City of Whitefish then earns on impact fees.
   G.   The City shall not issue the required building permit unless and until
the impact fees have been paid in the amount that the calculated fees exceed
exemptions or credits provided pursuant to section
10-2-3 or
10-2-4 of this chapter.
   H.   The service area for impact fees shall be a single Citywide service
area.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
10-2-3: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the following shall
be exempted from the payment of impact fees:
      1.   Alteration of an existing nonresidential structure that does not
expand the usable space, change the meter size, change the development type, or
add any residential units;
      2.   Miscellaneous improvements, including, but not limited to, fences,
walls, swimming pools, and signs;
      3.   Demolition or moving of a structure;
      4.   Expansion of a residential structure provided the expansion does not
result in an increase in the meter size;
      5.   Expansion of an existing residential structure that results in the
addition of five hundred (500) square feet or less of gross floor area;
      6.   Replacement of a residential structure with a new residential
structure at the same site or lot with the building total square footage
increasing less than five hundred (500) square feet of the original residential
structure and resulting in no change to the original meter size. The City must
be provided a reasonable notification period to schedule an inspection of the
original structure prior to demolition to confirm square footage and meter
size;
      7.   Replacement of a nonresidential structure with a new nonresidential
structure of the same size and use at the same site or lot. The City must be
provided a reasonable notification period to schedule an inspection of the
original structure prior to demolition to confirm square footage and meter
size. Replacement of a nonresidential structure with a new nonresidential
structure of the same size shall be interpreted to include any structure for
which the gross square footage of the building will be increased less than five
hundred (500) square feet and there is no change to the original meter size;
      8.   Alteration, remodel, rehabilitation, or construction of an accessory
dwelling unit.
   B.   If any increase occurs in the upsizing of a meter with any development
described, such increase shall not be exempted from payment of a water or
wastewater impact fee.
   C.   The City Manager, or designee, shall be authorized to determine whether
a particular development falls within an exemption identified in this section,
in any other section, or under other applicable law. Determinations of the City
Manager, or designee, shall be in writing and shall be subject to the appeals
procedures set forth in section
10-2-6 of this chapter.
   D.   Affordable housing dwelling units are not exempted from the payment of
impact fees.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
10-2-4: CREDITS:
   A.   A fee payer can request that a credit or credits for impact fees be
awarded to him/her for the total value of dedicated land, improvements, or
construction provided by the fee payer. Credits will be given only if the land,
improvements, and/or the facility constructed are:
      1.   For one or more of the system improvements from the capital
improvements program, the need for which is clearly documented pursuant to
Montana Code Annotated section 7-6-1602, by being included in the "Service Area
Report and Impact Fee Study" dated September 28, 2023, as the basis of the
impact fee; and
      2.   The land proposed for dedication or the public facilities to be
constructed is determined by the City to be appropriate for the proposed use at
suitable sites and constructed at acceptable quality as determined by the City.
   B.   The City Manager or designee shall determine if requests for credits
meet the criteria in subsection A of this section.
   C.   The value of a credit for structures, facilities or other improvements
shall be established by original receipts provided by the applicant for one or
more of the same system improvements for which the impact fee is being charged.
   D.   The value of a credit for land, including right-of-way and easements,
shall be established on a case-by-case basis by an appraiser selected by, or
acceptable to the City Manager or designee. The appraiser must be licensed in
good standing by the State of Montana for the category of the property
appraised. The appraiser shall not have a fiduciary or personal interest in the
property being appraised. A description of the appraiser's certification shall
be included with the appraisal, and the appraiser shall certify that he/she
does not have a fiduciary or personal interest in the property being appraised.
The appraisal shall be in accordance with the most recent version of the
uniform standards of professional appraisal practice and shall be subject to
review and acceptance by the City Manager or designee.
   E.   The fee payer shall pay for the cost of the appraisal.
   F.   After receiving the appraisal, the City Manager or designee shall
provide the applicant with a letter or certificate setting forth the dollar
amount of the credit, the reason for the credit, the legal description of the
site donated where applicable, and the legal description or other adequate
description of the project or development to which the credit may be applied.
The applicant must sign and date a duplicate copy of such letter or certificate
indicating his/her agreement to the terms of the letter or certificate and
return such signed document to the City Manager or designee before the impact
fee credit will be awarded. The failure of the applicant to sign, date, and
return such document within ninety (90) calendar days shall nullify the credit.
   G.   Any claim for credit must be made no later than ninety (90) calendar
days after the submission of an application for a building permit. The failure
to timely file such a claim shall constitute a final bar to later request any
such credit.
   H.   Determinations made by the City Manager or designee pursuant to this
section shall be subject to the appeals procedures set forth in section
10-2-6 of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
10-2-5: ADJUSTMENTS FOR OTHER REVENUE:
   Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code Annotated
section 7-6-1602(7)(b)(ii), the "Service Area Report and Impact Study" dated
September 28, 2023, provide consideration of payments for system improvements
reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of the development in the
form of user fees, debt service payments, taxes, and other available sources of
funding the system improvement which are earmarked or proratable to the same
new public facilities which will serve the new development. The impact fee
rates set forth by City Council resolution, have been reasonably adjusted for
payments for system improvements reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a
result of the development in the form of user fees, debt service payments,
taxes, and other available sources of funding the system improvement.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
10-2-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code
Annotated section 7-6-1603(8), any fee payer may appeal impact fee charges if
the person believes an error has been made. No appeal shall be permitted until
the impact fees at issue have been paid.
   B.   Appeals regarding the impact fees imposed on any development may only
be filed by the fee payer of the property where such development will occur.
   C.   The fee payer must first file a request for review regarding impact
fees with the City Manager or designee, as provided herein:
      1.   The request shall be in writing;
      2.   The request for review by the City Manager or designee shall be
filed within twenty-one (21) calendar days of the fee payer's payment of the
impact fees at issue. The failure to timely file such a request shall
constitute a final bar to later seek such review;
      3.   No administrative fee will be imposed for the request for review by
the City Manager or designee; and
      4.   The City Manager or designee shall issue his/her determination in
writing within twenty-one (21) calendar days.
   D.   Determinations of the City Manager or designee with respect to the
applicability of the impact fees to a given development, the availability or
value of a credit, or any other determination which the City Manager or
designee is authorized to make pursuant to this chapter, can be appealed to the
City Council.
   E.   Appeals shall be taken within twenty-one (21) calendar days of the City
Manager's or designee's issuance of a written determination by filing with the
City a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The City Manager or
designee shall transmit to the City Council all papers constituting the record
for the determination.
   F.   The City Council shall fix a time for the hearing of the appeal, give
notice to the parties in interest, and decide the same as provided in this
Code. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
   G.   The City Council is authorized to make findings of fact regarding the
applicability of the impact fees to a given development and the availability or
amount of the credit. The decision of the City Council shall be in writing and
shall be final, except as provided in this section.
   H.   The City Council may, so long as such action is in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may
modify the determinations of the City Manager or designee with respect to the
amount of the impact fees imposed or the credit awarded.
   I.   The fee payer may appeal a final decision of the City Council by filing
an appropriate action with the Flathead County District Court within ninety
(90) days of the City Council's issuance of its written determination.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
10-2-7: ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT FEE ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code
Annotated section 7-6-1603(1)(a), impact fee receipts shall be earmarked
specifically and deposited in a Special Revenue Fund created specifically for
each public facility as identified in the Service Area Report. Such Special
Revenue Fund shall constitute the "Special Proprietary Fund" referred to in
Montana Code Annotated section 7-6-1603(1)(a).
   B.   Funds withdrawn from these Special Revenue Funds must be used in
accordance with the provisions of section
10-2-9 of this chapter and applicable State law. Interest earned on the fees
shall be allocated to the Special Revenue Funds and expended for the purposes
for which the impact fees were collected.
   C.   On an annual basis, the Finance Director shall provide a report to the
Council on the Impact Fee Special Revenue Funds showing the source and amount
of all monies collected, earned, or received, the public improvements that were
financed in whole or in part by impact fees, and any administrative expenses
incurred by the Impact Fee Fund.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
10-2-8: REFUNDS:
   A.   If the City fails to collect or spend the impact fees in accordance
with this chapter, or in accordance with Montana Code Annotated section 7-6-
1602, the City shall refund any impact fees collected to the owner of the
property at the time the impact fees in question were paid. In determining
whether impact fees have been expended or encumbered, impact fees shall be
considered expended or encumbered on a first in, first out basis.
   B.   The City shall notify potential claimants by first class mail deposited
with the United States Postal Service at the last known address of such
claimants. A potential claimant or claimant must be the owner of the property
at the time impact fees were paid.
   C.   Owners seeking a refund of impact fees must submit a written request
for a refund of the fees to the City Manager or designee within one year of the
date the right to claim the refund arises or the date that notice is given,
whichever is later.
   D.   Any impact fees for which no application for a refund has been made
within this one-year period shall be retained by the City and expended on the
appropriate public facilities.
   E.   Refunds of impact fees under this section shall include any interest
earned on the impact fees by the City.
   F.   The City shall also refund to the owner of property at the time impact
fees were paid all impact fees paid, excluding the administrative fees
described in section 10-2-13 of this chapter, if the development for which the
impact fees were imposed did not occur; provided that, if the City has expended
or encumbered the impact fees in good faith prior to the application for a
refund, the City Manager or designee can decline to provide the refund. If
within a period of three (3) years, the same or subsequent owner of the
property proceeds with the same or substantially similar development, the owner
can petition the City Manager or designee for an offset. The petitioner must
provide receipts of impact fees previously paid for a development of the same
or substantially similar nature on the same property or some portion thereof.
The City Manager or designee shall determine in writing whether to grant an
offset, and the determinations of the City Manager or designee may be appealed
pursuant to the procedures in section 10-2-6 of this chapter.
   G.   Upon receipt of a written request, the City shall refund any impact
fees determined to be due within ninety (90) days.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
10-2-9: USE OF FUNDS:
   A.   Pursuant to this chapter, impact fees:
      1.   Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code
Annotated section 7-6-1603(1), shall be used for public improvements that are
reasonably related to the benefits accruing to the development;
      2.   Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code
Annotated section 7-6-1602(7)(c), shall not be imposed to correct existing
deficiencies in public facilities;
      3.   Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code
Annotated section 7-6-1602(7)(e), shall not be used for operation or
maintenance of public facilities;
      4.   Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code
Annotated section 7-6-1603(5), shall not be used for remodeling,
rehabilitation, or other improvements to an existing structure or for
rebuilding a damaged structure unless there is an increase in units that
increase service demand, and the impact fees are used only for the net increase
between the old and new demand; and
      5.   Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code
Annotated section 7-6-1601(1)(b), shall not be used for consumable supplies.
   B.   Impact fees may be spent for public improvements, including, but not
limited to, planning, land acquisition, right-of-way acquisition, site
improvements, necessary off-site improvements, construction, engineering,
architectural, permitting, financing, and administrative expenses, applicable
impact fees or mitigation costs, and any other expenses which can be
capitalized.
   C.   Impact fees may also be used to recoup public improvement costs
previously incurred by the City to the extent that new growth and development
will be served by the previously constructed improvements or incurred costs.
   D.   In the event that bonds or similar debt instruments are or have been
issued for the advanced provision of public improvements for which impact fees
may be expended, impact fees may be used to pay debt service on such bonds or
similar debt instruments to the extent that the facilities or improvements
provided are consistent with the requirements of this section and are used to
serve the new development. (Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018)
10-2-10: COMPONENT OF BUDGET:
   A.   Pursuant to and consistent with Montana Code Annotated section 7-6-1602
(2)(k), the City's capital improvement program is the component of the City's
budget that:
      1.   Schedules construction of public facility capital improvements to
serve projected growth;
      2.   Projects costs of the capital improvements;
      3.   Allocates collected impact fees for construction of the capital
improvements; and
      4.   Covers at least a five (5) year period and is reviewed and updated
at least every five (5) years.
   B.   The annual update of the capital improvement program does not require
an update of impact fee calculations unless a project is removed that was used
as the basis for calculating impact fees. (Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018)
10-2-11: REVIEW:
   Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code Annotated
section 7-6-1602(2)(k)(iv), the documentation and impact fee rates may be
reviewed and adjusted by the Council as it deems necessary and appropriate, but
will be reviewed at least once every five (5) years. The Council may adopt new
impact fee amounts by resolution, after a public hearing, according to Montana
Code Annotated section 7-6-4013.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
10-2-12: IMPACT FEE RATES:
   A.   The impact fee rates are generated from the formulas for calculating
impact fees set forth in the "Service Area Report and Impact Fee Study" dated
September 28, 2023. Impact fee rates shall be set by City Council resolution.
Except as otherwise provided for, exemptions in section
10-2-3 of this chapter and credits in section
10-2-4 of this chapter, all new development in the City will be charged the
impact fee applicable to the type of development.
(Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 23-23, 11-6-2023, 1-1-2024)
10-2-13: ADMINISTRATIVE FEES:
Pursuant to and consistent with the requirements of Montana Code Annotated
section 7-6-1601(5)(a), all building permits subject to the impact fees
pursuant to section
10-2-2 of this chapter, or as subsequently adjusted by City Council resolution,
shall pay an administrative fee in addition to the impact fee rates in section
10-2-12 of this chapter, in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the amount
of the impact fees. (Ord. 18-38, 12-3-2018)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title; Adoption
11-1-2: Interpretation And Purpose
11-1-3: Scope Of Regulations
11-1-4: Burden Of Proof
11-1-1: TITLE; ADOPTION:
The regulations contained in this title shall be known as the WHITEFISH ZONING
JURISDICTION REGULATIONS, and there is hereby adopted a zoning plan which,
together with these regulations and an official zoning map, constitute the
zoning law of the city's zoning jurisdiction.
If any provision of these regulations is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect other provisions which can be given effect without the invalid
provision, and to this end the provisions of these regulations are declared to
be severable. (Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015)
11-1-2: INTERPRETATION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   These zoning regulations are adopted with the intent and purpose of:
      1.   Implementing and promoting the master plan;
      2.   Lessening congestion in the streets and providing safe access to
streets from private property;
      3.   Securing safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
      4.   Promoting the public interest, health, comfort, convenience, safety,
and general welfare;
      5.   Providing adequate light and air;
      6.   Preventing the overcrowding of land;
      7.   Avoiding undue concentration of population;
      8.   Facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements;
      9.   Giving reasonable consideration to the character of the district;
      10.   Giving consideration to the peculiar suitability of the property
for particular uses;
      11.   Protecting and conserving the value of buildings;
      12.   Encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the
community by assuring orderly community growth.
   B.   In its interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be minimum requirements. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982)
   C.   The city council is authorized to grant, conditionally grant or deny an
application for a special event permit involving the temporary waiver of a
specific zoning jurisdiction regulation for a specific property or properties
within the Whitefish zoning jurisdiction. The city council shall utilize the
notification process and review criteria established in section
11-7-8 of this title in the granting of the request. In no case shall the
temporary waiver be granted for more than ten (10) calendar days for any
specific application. Each individual or entity is limited to three (3)
applications per year. (Ord. 07-31, 10-1-2007)
11-1-3: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
It is not intended by these regulations to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any
way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws, ordinances or
resolutions, except those specifically repealed by the adoption of these
regulations, or with private agreement, or with restrictive covenants running
with the land to which the city council is a party. Where these regulations
impose a greater restriction on land, buildings or structures than is imposed
or required by existing provisions of law, ordinance, resolution, contract or
deed, the provisions of these regulations shall control. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-
1982)
11-1-4: BURDEN OF PROOF:
In all proceedings and hearings, and in all application and submittal
materials, the burden of proof shall rest with the applicant, permittee or
appellant, as applicable. (Ord. 16-04, 2-16-2016)
CHAPTER 1A
WHITEFISH LEGACY HOMES PROGRAM
SECTION:
11-1A-1: Purpose
11-1A-2: General Affordable Housing Requirements
11-1A-3: Development Standards
11-1A-4: Alternative Ways To Qualify For Incentives
11-1A-5: Housing Mitigation Plan
11-1A-6: Incentives
11-1A-7: Administration
11-1A-1: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this chapter are to:
   A.   Implement the Whitefish Strategic Housing Plan;
   B.   Promote and provide incentives for the construction of legacy homes
that are permanently affordable to the community's workforce;
   C.   Retain opportunities for people that work in the City to also live in
the City;
   D.   Provide a full-range of housing choices for a variety of ages, income
levels and family sizes;
   E.   Ensure residents and future generations can afford to reside within the
City; and
   F.   Encourage new development to achieve a reasonable balance between
market rate housing and affordable housing through the use of incentives and
other means to help offset potential costs. (Ord. 19-15, 7-15-2019; amd. Ord.
21- 11, 8-16-2021)
11-1A-2: GENERAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicability: The requirements of this Chapter and incentives found in
section
11-1A-7 apply to the following types of developments that voluntarily include
permanently affordable Legacy Homes units or alternatives:
      1.   Major subdivisions (subsection
12-3-3A of this Code);
      2.   Minor subdivisions (subsection
12-3-3B of this Code);
      3.   Residential planned unit developments (subsection
11-2S-2A of this title);
      4.   Mixed use planned unit developments with more than one residential
unit (subsection
11-2S-2B of this title); and
      5.   Two-family or multi family residential developments.
   B.   Number Of Affordable Units: To qualify for the incentives, at least ten
percent (10%) of all new dwelling units in a residential or mixed-use
development must be permanently deed restricted as affordable units or a
qualifying alternative per subsection
11-1A-4 is provided. If application of the ten percent (10%) requirement
results in a fractional unit, an in-lieu fee may be paid for the fractional
unit or rounded up to the next full unit.
   C.   Deed Restrictions: To ensure long-term affordability, all affordable
units will be subject to deed restrictions.
   D.   Affordability: To qualify for incentives, affordable units must be
provided for a range of household sizes and incomes relative to the area median
income, as updated annually by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development.
      1.   Rental Units: The following requirements apply to affordable rental
units:
         a.   Rents charged must be affordable to households earning sixty
percent (60%) to eighty percent (80%) of the area median income.
         b.   For each income range, the maximum monthly rent charged shall be
calculated as set forth in the Whitefish Legacy Homes Program Administrative
Procedures.
         c.   The affordable rental units must be dispersed throughout the
sixty percent (60%) to eighty percent (80%) range proportionately such that the
average of all units is affordable to households earning seventy percent (70%)
of area median income.
      2.   Ownership Units: The following requirements shall apply to
affordable ownership units:
         a.   Ownership units must be affordable to households earning 80.01
percent to one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the area median income.
         b.   The initial sales price of affordable ownership units shall be
calculated as set forth in the Whitefish Legacy Homes Program Administrative
Procedures.
         c.   The affordable ownership units must be dispersed throughout the
80.01 percent to one hundred twenty percent (120%) range proportionately such
that the average of all units is affordable to households earning one hundred
percent (100%) of area median income. (Ord. 19-15, 7-15-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11,
8-16-2021)
11-1A-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Relationship Of Affordable Units To Market Rate Units:
      1.   Mixed Dwelling Unit Types: In developments with a mixture of housing
types, including, without limitation, single-family detached units, townhomes,
duplex, and triplex, the affordable units must be comprised of the different
housing types in the same proportion as the market rate units.
      2.   Detached Dwelling Units: In developments containing only single-
family detached units, up to one-half (1/2) of the affordable units may be
attached single-family units (duplex, triplex, townhouse).
      3.   Subdivision Only: In developments that involve only the subdivision
of land, the affordable unit types must be consistent with the needs identified
at the time of approval. Unless an alternative means of compliance is proposed
as set forth in section
11-1A-4 of this chapter, the applicant must provide a financial guarantee as
set forth in the Whitefish Legacy Homes Program Administrative Procedures that
will be released upon issuance of the certificate of occupancy for that
affordable unit.
      4.   Ownership Type: The proportion of affordable ownership units and
affordable rental units must be the same as that of the market rate units.
      5.   Number Of Bedrooms: Affordable units must have the same proportion
of studio, one-, two-, and three-bedroom dwelling units as in the market rate
units, provided the proportion is responsive to the needs identified at the
time of approval. Three-bedroom affordable units satisfy this requirement for
market units with four (4) or more bedrooms.
   B.   Quality, Size And Amenities Of Affordable Units:
      1.   Quality Of Units: The exterior of affordable units must be
constructed with similar quality, design and materials to the market rate units
and must be architecturally compatible with surrounding development. Storage
space, balconies, decks, and private yards similar to market rate units must be
provided.
      2.   Size Of Units: The sizes of affordable units may vary but the
minimum square footage and the minimum average square footage must comply with
the standards set forth in the Whitefish Legacy Homes Program Administrative
Procedures.
      3.   Access To Amenities: When affordable units are provided onsite, the
owners and renters of the affordable units must have access to amenities equal
to that of the owners and renters of the market rate units. Such amenities
include, but are not limited to, parks, outdoor play areas, pools, exercise
facilities, clubhouses and similar on-site amenities.
   C.   Location And Timing:
      1.   Location Of Affordable Units: Affordable units must be distributed
evenly throughout the development to achieve integration and avoid
concentration or segregation of the affordable households.
      2.   Timing Of Construction: The construction of onsite affordable units
must be timed such that the units shall be constructed and pass final
inspection concurrently or prior to the market rate units in the development.
When construction is phased, affordable units must be constructed and offered
for sale in proportion to market rate units.
      3.   Timing Of Marketing: Onsite affordable units must be marketed
concurrently with or prior to the market rate units in the development. (Ord.
19-15, 7-15-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 8-16-2021)
11-1A-4: ALTERNATIVE WAYS TO QUALIFY FOR INCENTIVES:
   A.   The City will consider alternatives to constructing affordable units
onsite, especially in, but not limited to, situations where any of the
following occur:
      1.   High levels of property tax;
      2.   High homeowner's association dues;
      3.   A predominance of short-term rentals;
      4.   Onsite development consisting of condominiums; and
      5.   Location far from schools, transit, or shopping.
   B.   Approval: Proposed alternative means of qualifying for the incentives
must be incorporated into a housing mitigation plan and approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
   C.   Offsite Housing:
      1.   The construction of affordable units by the applicant or the
applicant's partner offsite may be an alternative means of qualifying for
incentives if the applicant can demonstrate that:
         a.   There is adequate existing infrastructure to support the
affordable units in the proposed location;
         b.   Public facilities can serve the proposed offsite affordable units
or the commitment to provide such service has been confirmed;
         c.   The property where the affordable units are proposed to be
located is suitable for residential use and development; and
         d.   The proposed alternative provides a similar public benefit as if
the affordable units were constructed within the development.
      2.   Unit size, quality, design and timing of construction of the offsite
affordable units must be set forth in the approved housing mitigation plan.
      3.   Purchasing existing offsite market rate units and deed restricting
them as affordable units is permitted.
   D.   In Lieu Fees:
      1.   Fees in lieu of affordable units may be an alternative means of
compliance if the applicant can demonstrate that:
         a.   The proposed cash payment creates funds that will further the
goals of this chapter; and
         b.   The proposed cash payment provides a similar overall public
benefit.
      2.   Fees in lieu of affordable units are assessed based on the
percentage of on-site units required to qualify for incentives by this chapter
and are calculated by applying the methodology set forth in the Whitefish
Legacy Homes Program Administrative Procedures.
   E.   Land In Lieu: Land in lieu may be an alternative means of qualifying
for incentives if the applicant is not constructing residences and can
demonstrate that:
      1.   The appraised value of property to be dedicated is equal to or
greater than the fee in lieu of affordable units that would have been provided;
      2.   The property to be dedicated will further the goals of this chapter;
and
      3.   The property to be dedicated provides a similar overall public
benefit as if the affordable units were constructed within the development.
   F.   Clustering: Clustering on a development site may be approved if the
applicant can demonstrate clustering would enhance the neighborhood, would
provide convenient access to trails, public transportation, or employment, or
would otherwise exceed the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   G.   Other Alternatives: A combination of the above alternative means of
compliance or other alternatives may be approved if the applicant can
demonstrate the proposed means of qualifying for incentives would provide a
similar overall public benefit as if the affordable units were constructed
within the development. (Ord. 19-15, 7-15-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 8-16-2021)
11-1A-5: HOUSING MITIGATION PLAN:
   A.   Application: An applicant must submit a proposed housing mitigation
plan with the applicant's first application for development approval where
incentives are requested or as part of PUD where a density bonus is requested.
   B.   Requirements: The housing mitigation plan must describe how the
applicant intends to comply with this chapter, and must contain the following
information, as applicable:
      1.   Total number of market rate units and affordable units;
      2.   Square footage of the total development and each unit;
      3.   How the requirements of this chapter will be met, including unit
types, sizes, number of bedrooms, target income category, and initial sales
price or rental prices;
      4.   The incentives intended to be used for the development;
      5.   Location of the affordable units within the development by type and
size and justification for clustering, if proposed;
      6.   Proposed construction schedule of market rate units and affordable
units, including issuance of building permits;
      7.   Any proposed alternative methods of compliance;
      8.   Standardized deed restrictions provided by the City;
      9.   Homeowners' association structure and fees;
      10.   Site plan;
      11.   Unit designs;
      12.   Amenities; and
      13.   Any other information deemed necessary by the City.
   C.   Approval: The housing mitigation plan must be approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Compliance with the housing mitigation plan will be a condition
of approval for development.
   D.   Amendment:
      1.   Any substantive modification of or amendment to the housing
mitigation plan requires a letter justifying and outlining the proposed changes
as well as any alternative means of complying with the qualifications for
incentives and is subject to the Zoning Administrator's approval. A denial of
any proposed modifications may be appealed to the City Council. Substantive
modification or amendment includes, but is not limited to, a reduction in the
size of affordable units, a change in the timing or phasing of construction,
and a change in the method of complying with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Minor modifications of or amendment to the housing mitigation plan
may be approved by the Zoning Administrator upon written finding that the
proposed modification or amendment is inconsequential to the development and to
the achievement of the goals set forth in this chapter.
   E.   Failure To Comply: Failure to comply with the approved housing
mitigation plan constitutes a failure to comply with the conditions of approval
and may result in the revocation of the development approval. (Ord. 19-15, 7-
15-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 8-16-2021)
11-1A-6: INCENTIVES:
   A.   An applicant for a conditional use permit for a development that will
provide affordable units onsite or will satisfy the requirements of this
chapter through an alternative means of compliance is entitled to receive the
following incentives:
      1.   Twenty percent (20%) reduction in parking requirements for all units
with at least two (2) bedrooms;
      2.   Five feet (5') increase in maximum building height, limited to three
(3) stories maximum;
      3.   Ten percent (10%) increase in maximum lot coverage; and
      4.   Twenty percent (20%) increase in density.
   B.   An applicant for subdivision approval for a development that will
provide affordable units onsite or will satisfy the requirements of this
chapter through an alternative means of compliance is entitled to receive the
following incentives:
      1.   Twenty percent (20%) reduction in minimum lot size;
      2.   Twenty percent (20%) increase in density;
      3.   Ten percent (10%) reduction in minimum lot width; and
      4.   Ten percent (10%) increase in maximum lot coverage.
   C.   An applicant for a planned unit development that will provide
affordable units onsite or will satisfy the requirements of this chapter though
an alternative means of compliance is entitled to receive either the incentives
set forth in subsection A or B of this section, but not both. (Ord. 19-15, 7-
15-2019)
11-1A-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Administrative Procedures: The City is authorized to develop, maintain
and enforce the Whitefish Legacy Homes Program Administrative Procedures to
implement this chapter.
   B.   Contents: The Whitefish Legacy Homes Program Administrative Procedures
may include the following provisions:
      1.   Application submittal requirements to comply with this chapter,
including minimum requirements for housing mitigation plans;
      2.   A housing mitigation plan template;
      3.   The method used to determine the initial sales price of affordable
ownership units;
      4.   The method used to determine the maximum monthly rent charged for
affordable rental units;
      5.   Minimum design requirements including the minimum residential square
footages according to the number of bedrooms;
      6.   The method for determining fees associated with this chapter,
including cash in lieu payments;
      7.   A methodology for evaluating property dedications as an alternative
means of compliance; and
      8.   Any other matter deemed necessary by the City.
   C.   Adoption: The Whitefish Legacy Homes Program Administrative Procedures
shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council and shall be amended from
time to time as deemed necessary. (Ord. 19-15, 7-15-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 8-
16-2021)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Zoning Districts Established
11-2-2: Location And Boundaries Of Districts
11-2-3: Use Regulations
11-2-4: Applicability Of Regulations
11-2-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of applying these regulations to the zoning jurisdictional
area of the city, said area is hereby divided into use districts as follows:
District Title
District Title
WA             Agricultural
WCR            Country residential
WSR            Suburban residential
WER            Estate residential
WLR            One-family limited residential
WR-1           One-family residential
WR-2           Two-family residential
WR-3           Low density multi-family residential
WR-4           High density multi-family residential
WB-1           Limited business
WB-2           Secondary business
WB-3           General business
WB-4           Business park
WRR-1          Low density resort residential
WRR-2          Medium density resort residential
WRB-1          Limited resort business
WRB-2          General resort business
WI             Industrial and warehousing
WPUD           Planned unit development
WBMV           Big Mountain village
WBMRR          Big Mountain resort residential
WBSD           Business service
WT-3           Neighborhood mixed use transitional district
WI-T           Industrial transitional district
WB-T           Business transitional district
               
 
   A.   Zoning District Parcel and Building Standards Tables:
      1.   Residential Districts:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2681.png]
 
      2.    Resort Districts:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2688.png]
      3.     Commercial and Industrial Districts:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2690.png]
      4.    Transitional Districts:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2692.png]
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006; Ord. 08-08, 5-19-2008;
Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015; Ord. 16-06, 3-7-2016; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2-2: LOCATION AND BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
   A.   Official Map: The locations and boundaries of the use districts are
established as they are shown on a map, entitled the official zoning map of the
city of Whitefish, which shall become effective with and as an inseparable part
of these regulations as of the date of adoption by the city council. These
regulations are invalid without said map and likewise the map is deemed to be
invalid without these regulations.
   B.   Interpretation Of Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists as to the
boundaries of any of the aforesaid districts on said map, the following rules
shall apply. Where more than one of the following rules are applicable in any
given situation, the first enumerated applicable rule shall prevail:
      1.   Where a district boundary line is shown by a specific dimension,
such specific dimension shall control.
      2.   Where a district boundary line is located within or along a street,
alley, right-of-way or waterway, the boundary line shall be deemed to be the
centerline of such street, alley, right-of- way or waterway or extensions
therefrom.
      3.   Where a district boundary line is shown as approximately following
platted lot lines, the district boundary line shall be deemed to coincide with
such platted lot lines.
      4.   If none of the above rules are deemed sufficient to resolve the
question, the Zoning Administrator:
         a.   Shall, using a scale rule, measure a line drawn on the map, take
note of the dimensions and record such dimensions on the map, thus establishing
for future reference the location of said boundary in a manner to be
consistent; or
         b.   May arbitrarily make a decision based on his knowledge and
understanding of these regulations specifically determining the boundary in
question. Any such decision becomes fixed, unless amended by the City Council,
and a reference shall be entered on the map showing date such arbitrary
decision was made. The Zoning Administrator shall keep on permanent file any
such decision which may be amended or altered only by the City Council.
   C.   Guidelines: District boundaries shall, except for unique conditions or
circumstances, take into consideration property boundaries as platted and every
effort shall be made to not divide a platted lot, parcel or tract of land into
two (2) or more use districts.
If, however, a property is divided into two (2) use districts, the property may
be utilized in conformance with one zoning district or the other as long as the
use is confined to that portion of the property for which it is zoned. The
remainder of the lot lying within the other zoning classification will remain
open. This is not meant to preclude the possibility of the owner applying for a
zone map amendment or subdivision of the lot to address the situation. (Ord. A-
407, 3-15-1982)
11-2-3: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Established: The use districts, regulations and uses permitted in these
use districts are hereby established as set out in this title.
   B.   General Regulations: Notwithstanding any specific regulations that may
be enumerated for each district, the following general regulations, where
applicable, shall apply:
      1.   Any parcel of land having an area or width less than that required
by these use regulations, and which parcel was legally established at the time
it came under the provisions of this title, is deemed to be a lot and may be
used as a building site; provided, however, all other regulations for the
district are complied with.
      2.   Accessory structures or uses may be constructed or established on
any lot prior to the principal structure or use; provided, however, the
principal structure or use is in use not later than two (2) years after the
substantial completion of the accessory structure or use.
      3.   Where several contiguous lots are to be developed as a single
project, the exterior lot lines of the series of lots will be used for
determining compliance with the provisions of this title. However, prior to or
as a condition of issuance of any building permit, all interior lot lines
affected by the structure(s) must be abandoned.
      4.   In the event a neighborhood plan has been adopted as an addendum to
the Whitefish Growth Policy, the provisions of the neighborhood plan will serve
as a specific guide to future land use regulations for the area subject to the
plan. The neighborhood plan may limit or otherwise establish more restrictive
land use regulations than set forth by the zoning classification of this title,
in which case the more restrictive provisions of the plan will control.
      5.   The following types of structures or structural parts are not
subject to the building height limitations of this title: chimneys, tanks,
church spires, belfries, domes, monuments, fire and hose towers, transmission
towers, smokestacks, flagpoles, masts, aerials, cooling towers, elevator and
stairwell shafts, rooftop equipment screening that is no taller than the
equipment (such screening can not be used to create additional exterior wall
height) and other similar projections. Building height and permitted exemptions
in the WB-3 district must meet the standards in section
11-2L-4 of this chapter.
      6.   Cornices, eaves, canopies, sunshades, gutters, chimneys, flues, belt
courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, steps and other similar
architectural features and appurtenances must not encroach into a required
setback more than one-third (1/3) of the distance of the required setback.
Appurtenances such as those referenced above may also encroach up to one-third
(1/3) into an existing nonconforming setback, provided that in no case will any
appurtenance be less than three feet (3') from an adjacent property line. It is
the responsibility of the property owner to ensure that no snow or stormwater
is allowed to fall or flow onto adjacent property as a result of any
construction allowed by this section. No architectural features or appurtenance
may encroach upon public right of way without the proper encroachment permit
from the city of Whitefish.
      7.   Bay windows and associated eaves may encroach into a required
setback not more than one-third (1/3) of the distance of the required setback,
provided the following standards are met:
         a.   The bottom of the protrusion for the bay window is at least
thirty inches (30") above floor level; and
         b.   The opening in the wall for the bay window is no greater than
eight feet (8') in width.
      8.   Cantilevers (a.k.a. "bump outs") or other architectural elements
intended to provide visual interest and architectural variety may encroach into
a required setback not more than one-third (1/3) of the distance of the
required setback, provided the following standards are met:
         a.   The combined widths of all openings do not exceed thirty percent
(30%) of the total length of the building wall from which the encroachment
protrudes, but in no case can any single cantilever width exceed twelve feet
(12') measured at the wall line.
         b.   The width of the cantilever must not exceed the width of the
opening in the wall.
         c.   Two (2) encroaching cantilevers on the same building wall must be
separated by no less than fifty percent (50%) of the maximum width of the
widest cantilever.
         d.   Multilevel and multi-story cantilevers are not allowed
      9.   Open porches, landings, decks or balconies may be allowed to extend
into the front or rear yard, but must not exceed one-third (1/3) of the
distance of the required setback.
      10.   The allowed commercial uses in permitted mixed-use buildings
located in commercial zones must be listed in either the permitted or
conditional uses of that zoning district.
      11.   Occupied recreational vehicles intended to be used for overnight
camping or lodging and preparation of meals may only be parked:
         a.   Within licensed recreational vehicle parks.
         b.   On private residential lots as an accessory where no fee is
charged and individual length of stay does not exceed thirty (30) days in a
calendar year.
      12.   Only one principal use is allowed per lot of record. Multiple
detached principal uses may be allowed on a single lot of record upon the
issuance of a conditional use permit.
      13.   The conversion of basement or attic space within a residence
legally nonconforming with respect to setbacks is not subject to a zoning
variance provided the conversion does not further encroach into the required
setback. This provision would allow the construction of dormers for attic
conversion and egress windows for basement conversion. This exception does not
apply to situations where the overall roof pitch or height is being changed or
a second floor is being added.
      14.   No terrain disturbance for development purposes may be undertaken
until such time as a site plan pursuant to a building permit is approved by the
planning and building department or the property owner has received either
preliminary plat approval, PUD approval, or a conditional use permit, if
required. For purposes of this section, "terrain disturbance for development"
means any grading, excavation, stockpiling of fill material, or clearing of
vegetation in preparation to construct and/or provide access to a principal or
accessory structure. Nothing in this subsection prohibits or precludes routine
property maintenance, forest management, or any lawful grading or excavation of
property not associated with development.
      15.   Uncovered, open air access ramps and stairs no wider than four feet
(4'), or as required by Building Code, may encroach up to the property line or
public right-of-way when providing primary access to an exterior door from a
public right-of-way.
      16.   Residential or mixed-use developments approved under the Whitefish
Legacy Homes Program may have modified development standards such as increased
building height or reduced parking pursuant to section
11-1A-6 of this title.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 97-2, 10-20-1997; Ord. 04-03, 3-1-2004; Ord.
07-33, 10-15-2007; Ord. 10-04, 2-1-2010; Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015; Ord. 16-04, 2-
16-2016; Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
11-2-4: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided:
      1.   A lot may be used and a structure or part of a structure may be
constructed, reconstructed, altered, occupied or used only as this title
permits.
      2.   No lot dimension, yard or off street parking area existing on or
after the effective date of this title shall be reduced below the minimum
requirements of this title.
      3.   If a lot or the aggregate of contiguous lots or parcels platted
prior to the adoption of these regulations has an area or dimension which does
not meet the requirements of these regulations, the lot or aggregate holdings
may be put to a use permitted in that zone subject to all the other
requirements of the zone in which it is located.
   B.   The zoning plan and regulations shall apply to all private and public
lands and structures within the zoning jurisdiction of the City. (Ord. A-407,
3-15-1982)
ARTICLE A. WA AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2A-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2A-2: Permitted Uses
11-2A-3: Conditional Uses
11-2A-4: Property Development Standards
11-2A-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WA District is intended for areas for silviculture, agricultural functions,
outdoor recreation purposes, open spaces or future development, and for
detached single-family homes and duplexes with customary farm and/or accessory
buildings situated in a setting conducive to a rural lifestyle. (Ord. A-407, 3-
15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2A-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Agriculture/silviculture.
•   Campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks.
•   Cemeteries and mausoleums.
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Livestock (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-22B of this title).
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings or uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •    Accessory Dwelling Units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Single-family and duplex dwellings.
•    Sales stands for the sale of farm or ranch products produced on the
premises or items similar to those products (minimum 10 foot setback from side
and rear property lines). (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022;
Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•    Airports and landing strips, including heliports and helipads (see special
provisions in section
11-3-38 of this title).
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses,
parsonages, rectories, convents or dormitories.
•    Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Extraction industries.
•    Guesthouses.
•    Kennels and animal training centers.
•    Livestock where density exceeds the table in subsection
11-3-22B of this title:
•    Land inside City subject to conditional use permit.
•    Retreat center.
•    Schools (K - 12).
•    Stables and riding academies.
•    Veterinary offices and hospitals. (Ord. 14-14, 12-1-2014; amd. Ord. 14-21,
1-5-2015; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022)
11-2A-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum lot area   15 acres
Minimum lot width  n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
Front              50 feet
Side               20 feet each
Rear               20 feet
Maximum height     35 feet
Permitted lot coverage:
2 acres or less    20 percent
2 acres or more    10 percent
Off street parking See
                   chapter 6 of this title
                   Accessory uses must maintain the same yard requirements as
                   the primary use. However, accessory uses (excluding any type
Accessory uses     of living quarters) may be built within 3 feet of a side or
                   rear lot line that does not border a street, a river or
                   lake, or the front half of any adjoining lot
                   See
Landscaping        chapter 4 of this title (single-family and duplex uses
                   exempted)
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE B. WCR COUNTRY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2B-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2B-2: Permitted Uses
11-2B-3: Conditional Uses
11-2B-4: Property Development Standards
11-2B-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WCR District is intended for detached single-family homes and duplexes
together with farm and/or accessory buildings situated in a setting conducive
to a rural lifestyle. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2B-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Agriculture/silviculture.
•   Cemeteries and mausoleums.
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Homeowners' park.
•   Livestock (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-22B of this title).
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •    Accessory Dwelling Units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Single-family and duplex dwellings.
•    Sales stands for the sales of farm or ranch products produced on the
premises or items similar to those products. (Minimum 10 foot setback from side
and rear property lines.) (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022;
Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses,
parsonages, rectories, convents or dormitories.
•    Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Guesthouses.
•    Livestock where density exceeds the table in subsection
11-3-22B of this title:
   •    Land inside City subject to conditional use permit.
•    Private recreational facilities.
•    Retreat center.
•    Schools (K - 12).
•    Stables and riding academies.
•   Type I community residential facilities.
•    Veterinary offices and hospitals. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-01,
1-18-2005; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 09-09, 8-3-2009; Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015;
Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022)
11-2B-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum lot area       21/2 acres
Minimum lot width      n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                  50 feet
Side                   20 feet each
Rear                   20 feet
Maximum height         35 feet
Permitted lot coverage 10 percent maximum
Off street parking     See
                       chapter 6  of this title
                       Accessory buildings conforming to the definition in
                       section
                       11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject to the
                       standards set forth in section
                       11-3-2 of this title. Accessory buildings with
Accessory buildings    footprints not exceeding 600 square feet must be set
                       back a minimum of 6 feet from side and rear property
                       lines that do not border a street, lake, any
                       intermittent or perennial stream, or the front 1/2 of
                       any adjoining lot. Setbacks for accessory buildings with
                       footprints exceeding 600 square feet shall be the same
                       as those for the principal structure
                       See
Landscaping            chapter 4  of this title (single-family and duplex uses
                       exempted)
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE C. WSR SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2C-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2C-2: Permitted Uses
11-2C-3: Conditional Uses
11-2C-4: Property Development Standards
11-2C-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WSR District is intended for single-family homes and duplexes in an estate
type setting and is designed to maintain, protect and preserve a character of
development characterized by uses of a residential purpose and with no more
than one dwelling unit and customary accessory buildings on one lot. (Ord. A-
407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2C-2: PERMITTED USES:
•    Cemeteries and mausoleums.
•    Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•    Homeowners' parks.
•    Livestock (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-22B of this title).
•    Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•    Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•    Residential:
   •    Accessory Dwelling Units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Single-family and duplex dwellings. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord.
22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses,
parsonages, rectories, convents and dormitories.
•    Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Guesthouses.
•    Livestock where density exceeds the table in subsection
11-3-22B of this title:
   •    Land inside City subject to conditional use permit.
•    Private recreational facilities.
•    Schools (K - 12).
•   Type I community residential facilities. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord.
05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 09-09, 8-3-2009; Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015; amd. Ord. 22-04,
3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022)
11-2C-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum lot area         1 acre (43,560 square feet)
Minimum lot width        130 feet
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                    25 feet
Side                     15 feet
Rear                     20 feet
Wisconsin Avenue setback 35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right- of-way
Maximum height           35 feet
Permitted lot coverage   25 percent maximum
Off street parking       See
                         chapter 6 of this title
                         Accessory buildings conforming to the definition in
                         section
                         11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject to the
                         standards set forth in section
                         11-3-2 of this title. Accessory buildings with
Accessory buildings      footprints not exceeding 600 square feet must be set
                         back a minimum of 6 feet from side and rear property
                         lines that do not border a street, lake, any
                         intermittent or perennial stream, or the front 1/2 of
                         any adjoining lot. Setbacks for accessory buildings
                         with footprints exceeding 600 square feet must be the
                         same as those for the principal structure
                         See
Landscaping              chapter 4  of this title (single-family and duplex
                         uses exempted)
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 09-09, 8-3-2009; Ord.
14-21, 1-5-2015; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022)
ARTICLE D. WER ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2D-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2D-2: Permitted Uses
11-2D-3: Conditional Uses
11-2D-4: Property Development Standards
11-2D-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
A Residential District to provide for single-family or duplex, large tract or
estate development. These areas will typically be found in suburban areas,
generally served by Municipal sewer and water lines. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982;
amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2D-2: PERMITTED USES:
•    Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•    Homeowners' parks.
•    Livestock (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-22B of this title).
•    Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•    Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•    Residential:
   •    Accessory Dwelling Units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Single-family or duplex dwellings. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 22-
04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2D-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses,
parsonages, rectories, convents and dormitories.
•    Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Dwelling groups or clusters.
•    Guesthouses.
•    Livestock where density exceeds the table in subsection
11-3-22B of this title:
   •    Land inside City subject to conditional use permit.
•    Private recreational facilities.
•    Schools (K - 12).
•   Type I community residential facilities. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord.
05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 09-09, 8-3-2009; Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015; Ord. 22-04, 3-
21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022)
11-2D-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum lot area       20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width      100 feet
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                  25 feet
Side                   15 feet each
Rear                   20 feet
Maximum height         35 feet
Permitted lot coverage 30 percent maximum
Off street parking     See
                       chapter 6 of this title
                       Accessory buildings conforming to the definition in
                       section
                       11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject to the
                       standards set forth in section
                       11-3-2 of this title. Accessory buildings with
Accessory buildings    footprints not exceeding 600 square feet must be set
                       back a minimum of 6 feet from side and rear property
                       lines that do not border a street, lake, any
                       intermittent or perennial stream, or the front 1/2 of
                       any adjoining lot. Setbacks for accessory buildings with
                       footprints exceeding 600 square feet must be the same as
                       those for the principal structure
                       See
Landscaping            chapter 4  of this title (single-family and duplex uses
                       exempted)
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 09-09, 8-3-2009; Ord.
14-21, 1-5-2015; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-
21-2023))
ARTICLE E. WLR ONE-FAMILY LIMITED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2E-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2E-2: Permitted Uses
11-2E-3: Conditional Uses
11-2E-4: Property Development Standards
11-2E-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WLR District is intended for residential purposes to provide for single-
family or duplex homes in a low density setting, connected to Municipal
utilities and services. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2E-2: PERMITTED USES:
•    Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•    Homeowners' parks.
•    Livestock (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-22B of this title).
•    Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•    Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•    Residential:
   •    Accessory Dwelling Units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Single-family or duplex dwellings. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 22-
04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2E-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses,
parsonages, rectories, convents and dormitories.
•    Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Dwelling groups or clusters.
•    Guesthouses.
•    Livestock where density exceeds the table in subsection
11-3-22B of this title:
   •    Land inside City subject to conditional use permit.
•    Private recreational facilities.
•    Schools (K - 12).
•   Type I community residential facilities. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord.
05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 09-09, 8-3-2009; Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015; amd. Ord. 22-04,
3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022)
11-2E-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum lot area         15,000 square feet
Minimum lot width        80 feet
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                    25 feet
Side                     15 feet
Rear                     20 feet
Wisconsin Avenue setback 35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right- of-way
Maximum height           35 feet
Permitted lot coverage   30 percent maximum
Off street parking       See
                         chapter 6 of this title
                         Accessory buildings conforming to the definition in
                         section
                         11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject to the
                         standards set forth in section
                         11-3-2 of this title. Accessory buildings with
Accessory buildings      footprints not exceeding 600 square feet must be set
                         back a minimum of 6 feet from side and rear property
                         lines that do not border a street, lake, any
                         intermittent or perennial stream, or the front 1/2 of
                         any adjoining lot. Setbacks for accessory buildings
                         with footprints exceeding 600 square feet must be the
                         same as those for the principal structure
                         See
Landscaping              chapter 4  of this title (single-family and duplex
                         uses exempted)
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord.
23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE F. WR-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2F-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2F-2: Permitted Uses
11-2F-3: Conditional Uses
11-2F-4: Property Development Standards
11-2F-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WR-1 District is intended for residential purposes to provide for single-
family and duplex dwellings in an urban setting connected to all Municipal
utilities and services. (Ord. 02-30, 6-16-2003; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2F-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Homeowners' parks.
•   Livestock (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-22B of this title).
•   Manufactured home subdivisions (5 acre minimum size).
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •    Accessory Dwelling Units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Single-family and duplex dwellings. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord.
22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2F-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses and
parsonages.
•   Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•   Dwelling groups or clusters.
•   Guesthouses.
•   Livestock where density exceeds the table in subsection
11-3-22B of this title:
•   Land inside City subject to conditional use permit.
•   Private recreational facilities.
•   Schools (K - 12).
•   Type I community residential facilities. (Ord. 02-30, 6-16-2003; amd. Ord.
05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 09-09, 8-3-2009; Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015; amd. Ord. 22-04,
3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022)
11-2F-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum lot area         10,000 square feet
Minimum lot width        60 feet
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                    25 feet
Side                     10 feet
Rear                     20 feet
Wisconsin Avenue setback 35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right- of-way
Maximum height           35 feet
Permitted lot coverage   35 percent maximum
Off street parking       See
                         chapter 6 of this title
                         Accessory buildings conforming to the definition in
                         section
                         11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject to the
                         standards set forth in section
                         11-3-2 of this title. Accessory buildings with
Accessory buildings      footprints not exceeding 600 square feet must be set
                         back a minimum of 6 feet from side and rear property
                         lines that do not border a street, lake, any
                         intermittent or perennial stream, or the front 1/2 of
                         any adjoining lot. Setbacks for accessory buildings
                         with footprints exceeding 600 square feet must be the
                         same as those for the principal structure
                         See
Landscaping              chapter 4  of this title (single-family and duplex
                         uses exempted)
 
(Ord. 02-30, 6-16-2003; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord.
23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE G. WR-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2G-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2G-2: Permitted Uses
11-2G-3: Conditional Uses
11-2G-4: Property Development Standards
11-2G-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WR-2 District is intended for residential purposes to provide for one-
family and two-family homes in an urban setting connected to all Municipal
utilities and services. (Ord. 02-30, 6-16-2003)
11-2G-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Homeowners' parks.
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •    Accessory Dwelling Units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Manufactured home subdivisions (5 acre minimum size).
   •    Single-family or two-family (duplex) dwellings.
•    Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14C of this title). (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022;
Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2G-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses and
parsonages.
•   Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•   Dwelling groups or clusters.
•   Guesthouses, only on lots over ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
•   Livestock, subject to an administrative conditional use permit.
•   Private recreational facilities and structures.
•   Professional artist studio/gallery. (Limited to Baker Avenue between Sixth
Street and Tenth Street. See special provisions in section
11-3-15 of this title.)
•   Professional offices. (Limited to Baker Avenue between Sixth Street and
Tenth Street. See special provisions in section
11-3-16 of this title.)
•   Schools (K - 12).
•   Type I and type II community residential facilities. (Ord. 02-30, 6-16-
2003; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 08-22, 10-20-2008; Ord. 09-09, 8-3-
2009; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022)
11-2G-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum lot area:
Single-family dwelling and duplex      6,000 square feet
Two-family townhouse                   7,200 square feet
Attached one-family dwelling townhouse 3,600 square feet
on a sublot
Minimum lot width                      50 feet
Minimum sublot width                   25 feet
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                                  25 feet
Side                                   10 feet
Rear                                   20 feet
Wisconsin Avenue setback               35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right-
                                       of-way
Maximum height                         35 feet
Permitted lot coverage                 40 percent maximum
Off street parking                     See
                                       chapter 6 of this title
                                       Accessory buildings conforming to the
                                       definition in section
                                       11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject
                                       to the standards set forth in section
                                       11-3-2 of this title. Accessory
                                       buildings with footprints not exceeding
                                       600 square feet must be set back a
Accessory buildings                    minimum of 6 feet from side and rear
                                       property lines that do not border a
                                       street, lake, any intermittent or
                                       perennial stream, or the front 1/2 of
                                       any adjoining lot. Setbacks for
                                       accessory buildings with footprints
                                       exceeding 600 square feet must be the
                                       same as those for the principal
                                       structure
                                       See
Landscaping                            chapter 4  of this title (single-family
                                       and duplex uses exempted)
 
(Ord. 02-30, 6-16-2003; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord.
23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE H. WR-3 LOW DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2H-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2H-2: Permitted Uses
11-2H-3: Conditional Uses
11-2H-4: Property Development Standards
11-2H-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WR-3 District is intended for residential purposes to provide for one-
family, duplex, triplex, fourplex and attached single- family residential uses
in an urban setting connected to all Municipal utilities and services. (Ord.
02-30, 6-16-2003)
11-2H-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Homeowners' parks.
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •    Accessory Dwelling Units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Manufactured home subdivisions (5 acre minimum size).
   •    One-family, two-family, triplex, and fourplex dwellings.
•    Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14C of this title). (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022;
Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2H-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses and
parsonages.
•   Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Hostels.
•    Livestock, subject to an administrative conditional use permit.
•    Nursing or retirement homes.
•   Personal services. (Limited to Second Street West and Wisconsin Avenue
south of Glenwood. See special provisions in section
11-3-30 of this title.)
•    Private recreational facilities.
•    Professional artist studio/gallery. (Limited to Second Street West and
Wisconsin Avenue south of Glenwood. See special provisions in section
11-3-15 of this title.)
•    Professional offices. (Limited to Second Street West and Wisconsin Avenue
south of Glenwood. See special provisions in section
11-3-16 of this title.)
•    Residential:
   •    Dwelling groups or clusters.
   •    Guesthouses.
   •    Multi-family dwellings five (5) to eight (8) dwelling units -
administrative conditional use permit (subsection
11-7-8M of this title) (see special provisions in section
11-3-42 or
11-3-43 of this title).
   •    Multi-family dwellings, nine (9) or more dwelling units (see special
provisions in section
11-3-42 or
11-3-43 of this title).
•    Schools (K - 12).
•   Type I and type II community residential facilities. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019;
amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2H-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
this district:
Minimum lot area:                     
   Single-family dwelling or duple6,000 square feet
   Triplex or greater dwellings/un3,000 square feet
Attached one-family dwelling on a    2,400 square feet
sublot
Minimum lot width                    50 feet
Minimum sublot width                 25 feet
Minimum yard spaces:                  
Front                                25 feet
Side                                 10 feet
Triplex or larger                    15 feet
Rear                                 20 feet
Wisconsin Avenue setback             35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right-
                                     of-way
Maximum height                       35 feet
Permitted lot coverage               40 percent maximum
Off street parking                   See
                                     chapter 6 of this title
                                     Accessory buildings conforming to the
                                     definition in section
                                     11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject
                                     to the standards set forth in section
                                     11-3-2 of this title. Accessory
                                     buildings with footprints not exceeding
                                     600 square feet must be set back a
Accessory buildings                  minimum of 6 feet from side and rear
                                     property lines that do not border a
                                     street, lake, any intermittent or
                                     perennial stream, or the front 1/2 of
                                     any adjoining lot. Setbacks for
                                     accessory buildings with footprints
                                     exceeding 600 square feet must be the
                                     same as those for the principal
                                     structure
                                     See
Landscaping                          chapter 4  of this title (single-family
                                     and duplex uses exempted)
 
(Ord. 02-30, 6-16-2003; amd. Ord. 05-05, 2-7-2005; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord.
19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE I. WR-4 HIGH DENSITY MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2I-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2I-2: Permitted Uses
11-2I-3: Conditional Uses
11-2I-4: Property Development Standards
11-2I-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WR-4 District is intended for higher density residential purposes and for
limited nonresidential uses that are compatible with such a residential setting
connected to Municipal utilities and services. (Ord. 02-30, 6-16-2003)
11-2I-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Homeowners' parks.
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses or recreational facilities
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •    Accessory Dwelling Units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Fraternity and sorority houses.
   •    Manufactured home subdivisions (5 acre minimum size).
   •    Single-family, duplex, triplex, fourplex, and multi-family up to
eighteen (18) dwelling units.
•    Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14C of this title). (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 21-18, 12-20-2021;
Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2I-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Boarding houses.
•    Catering services.
•    Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses and
parsonages.
•    Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Hostels.
•    Mixed use professional office/residential with professional office only
permitted on the street level between Railway Street and Second Street.
•   Music and dance schools and studios. (Limited to Spokane Avenue, Central
Avenue south of Fourth Street, Baker Avenue between Fourth Street and Fifth
Street, Wisconsin Avenue south of Glenwood, and East Seventh Street east of
Park Avenue. See special provisions in section
11-3-31 of this title.)
•    Nursing or retirement homes.
•   Personal services. (Limited to Spokane Avenue, Central Avenue south of
Fourth Street, Baker Avenue between Fourth Street and Fifth Street, and
Wisconsin Avenue south of Glenwood. See special provisions in section
11-3-30 of this title.)
•    Private recreational facilities.
•    Professional artist studio/gallery. (Limited to Spokane Avenue, Central
Avenue south of Fourth Street, Second Street West, Baker Avenue between Fourth
Street and Fifth Street, and Wisconsin Avenue south of Glenwood. See special
provisions in section
11-3-15 of this title.)
•    Professional offices. (Limited to Spokane Avenue, Central Avenue south of
Fourth Street, Baker Avenue between Fourth Street and Fifth Street, and
Wisconsin Avenue south of Glenwood. See special provisions in section
11-3-16 of this title.)
•    Residential:
   •    Dwelling groups or clusters.
   •    Guesthouses, only on lots over ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   •    Multi-family dwellings, nineteen (19) or more dwelling units -
administrative conditional use permit (subsection
11-7-8M of this title) (see special provisions in section
11-3-42 or
11-3-43 of this title).
•    Schools (K - 12).
•   Type I and type II community residential facilities. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019;
amd. Ord. 20-17, 1-4-2021; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord.
23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2I-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum lot area:                 
Single-family dwelling or duplex 6,000 square feet
                                 2,000 square feet additional for the first
Triplex dwelling or larger       dwelling unit in excess of two-family, 1,000
                                 square feet for each additional dwelling unit
                                 in excss of three family
Minimum sublot area              2,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                50 feet
Minimum sublot width             25 feet
Minimum yard spaces:              
Front                            20 feet
Side                             10 feet
Triplex or larger                15 feet
Rear                             15 feet
Wisconsin Avenue setback         35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right- of-
                                 way
Maximum height                   35 feet
Permitted lot coverage           40 percent maximum
Off street parking               See
                                 chapter 6 of this title
For mixed use professional/residential uses, pursuant to section
11-2I-3 of this article:
•   Residential located entirely on an upper level(s) above street level
professional offices, 1 off street parking space per unit must be provided; and
•   Professional office a maximum of 3 off street parking spaces per 1,000
square feet gross floor area
                                 Accessory buildings conforming to the
                                 definition in section
                                 11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject to
                                 the standards set forth in section
                                 11-3-2 of this title. Accessory buildings with
                                 footprints not exceeding 600 square feet must
Accessory buildings              be set back a minimum of 6 feet from side and
                                 rear property lines that do not border a
                                 street, lake, any intermittent or perennial
                                 stream, or the front 1/2 of any adjoining lot.
                                 Setbacks for accessory buildings with
                                 footprints exceeding 600 square feet must be
                                 the same as those for the principal structure
                                 See
Landscaping                      chapter 4  of this title (single-family and
                                 duplex uses exempted)
 
(Ord. 02-30, 6-16-2003; amd. Ord. 03-21, 9-2-2003; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord.
07-03, 1-16-2007; Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE J. WB-1 LIMITED BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2J-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2J-2: Permitted Uses
11-2J-3: Conditional Uses
11-2J-4: Property Development Standards
11-2J-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WB-1 District is intended for limited commercial uses within or adjacent to
Residential Districts to meet certain convenience services catering to the
daily needs of those nearby residents living within one mile of the district.
This district must generally be a business island rather than a strip and must
be located adjacent to an arterial or collector street and must have convenient
and safe access both for the vehicular and pedestrian customer. The maximum
size of such a district at one location must be seven (7) acres and the minimum
must be two (2) acres. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2J-2: PERMITTED USES:
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Caretaker's unit (see special provisions in section
11-3-6 of this title).
•    Colleges, business and trade schools.
•    Daycare (registered home; 5 to 15 individuals).
•    Financial institutions and professional services (less than 4,000 square
feet).
•    Fraternity and sorority houses.
•    Private and commercial recreational facilities.
•    Professional offices.
•    Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding repair or storage facilities.
•    Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•    Residential:
   •    Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1  of this title).
   •    One to four (4) dwelling units and multi-family above ground floor
commercial as mixed-use (see special provisions in section
11-3-43  of this title).
   •    Multi-family dwellings.
•    Restaurants, excluding drive-ins.
•    Retail sales and service (less than 4,000 square feet enclosed gross floor
area per lot of record; no outside storage or display).
•    Vendors (see special provisions in section
11-3-23 of this title). (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord.
23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2J-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•    Automobile and boat repair, limited.
•    Automotive service stations.
•    Bars/lounges.
•   Boat and recreational vehicle storage (see special provisions in section
11-3-32 of this title).
•    Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses,
parsonages, rectories, convents and dormitories.
•    Clubs.
•    Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Formula restaurants (see definition of "formula retail" in section
11-9-2 of this title).
•    Formula retail (see definition of "formula retail" in section
11-9-2 of this title).
•    Funeral homes and mortuaries.
•   Marijuana sales (administrative CUP).
•   Marijuana sales, formula business.
•    Microbreweries and microdistilleries (located on a parcel with frontage
along an arterial).
•    Ministorage.
•    Residential:
   •    Boarding houses.
•    Schools (K - 12).
•    Wholesale, light assembly and light manufacturing. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019;
amd. Ord. 21-17, 12-6-2021; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2J-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
this district:
Maximum district size    7 acres
Minimum district size    2 acres
Minimum lot area         n/a
Minimum lot width        n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                    20 feet
Side                     20 feet when abutting a Residential District;
                         otherwise, none
Rear                     20 feet when abutting a Residential District;
                         otherwise none
Wisconsin Avenue setback 35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right-of-way
Maximum height           35 feet
Permitted lot coverage   n/a
Off street parking       See
                         chapter 6 of this title
Accessory uses           Accessory uses must maintain the same yard
                         requirements as the primary uses
                         See
Landscaping              chapter 4 of this title (single-family and duplex uses
                         exempted)
                         All new structures with a building footprint of 4,000
                         square feet or greater, existing structures where an
                         addition causes the total building footprint to be
                         4,000 square feet or greater, and additions to
Bulk and scale           structures where the total building footprint is
                         already 4,000 square feet or greater, with the
                         exception of multi-family and mixed- use with multi-
                         family, are subject to a conditional use permit
                         pursuant to section
                         11-7-8  of this title
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 07-32, 10-15-2007; Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord.
23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE K. WB-2 SECONDARY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2K-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2K-2: Permitted Uses
11-2K-3: Conditional Uses
11-2K-4: Property Development Standards
11-2K-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WB-2 District is intended to provide for those retail sales and services
the operations of which are typically characterized by the need for large
display or parking areas, large storage areas and by outdoor commercial
amusement or recreational activities. Mixed-use and multi-family development is
also appropriate. This district depends on proximity to highways or arterial
streets and may be located in business corridors or islands. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-
2019)
11-2K-2: PERMITTED USES:
•    Antique stores and auction barns.
•    Automobile, boat, and recreational vehicle parts.
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Bowling establishments.
•    Building supplies outlets.
•    Churches or similar places of worship.
•    Daycare and daycare centers.
•    Entertainment uses.
•    Farm and garden supply stores.
•    Financial institutions and professional services.
•    Furniture and floor coverings stores.
•    Grocery stores.
•    Hospitals, and associated related nursing homes, retirement homes,
congregate housing and personal care facilities in a campus setting.
•    Household appliance and electronics stores.
•    Laundry and dry cleaning.
•    Medical clinics and associated therapeutic health services.
•    Military surplus stores.
•    Mortuaries.
•    Private postal services and shipping services.
•    Professional offices.
•    Public buildings.
•    Recreational facilities, private and commercial.
•    Residential:
   •    Caretaker’s units (see special provisions in section
11-3-6  of this title).
   •    Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1  of this title).
   •    Multi-family dwellings (see special provisions in section
11-3-42  or
11-3-43  of this title).
   •    Single family through multi-family dwelling units above ground floor
commercial as mixed-use (see special provisions in section
11-3-43  of this title).
•    Restaurants, non-formula.
•    Theaters.
•    Vendors (see special provisions in section
11-3-23 of this title).
•    Veterinary office, small animal.
•    Wholesale and warehousing. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 19-24, 12-16-
2019; Ord. 20-12, 9-21-2020; Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2021; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord.
22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2K-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Automobile, boat, and recreational vehicle sales, rentals, repair, and
service.
•   Automotive service stations and convenience stores within.
•    Bars/lounges.
•    Boat and recreational vehicle storage (see special provisions in section
11-3-32 of this title).
•   Bus depot.
•    Casinos within a casino overlay zone.
•    Colleges, business and trade schools.
•   Crematories.
•   Hotels, motels, and other hospitality uses.
•    Light assembly and light manufacturing (administrative CUP).
•   Machinery and equipment sales, rental, and repair.
•   Marijuana facilities (administrative CUP).
•    Microbreweries and microdistilleries.
•    Ministorage.
•    Personal care facilities when not in association with a hospital in a
campus setting.
•   Recreational guides and outfitters, limited to five thousand (5,000) square
feet of gross floor area, no formula businesses, with no limitation on number
of boats or similar equipment stored or displayed.
•    Recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds and amusement parks (2 acres
minimum size).
•    Residential:
   •    Manufactured home subdivisions.
   •    Single family through four-plex dwellings - administrative conditional
use permit (subsection
11-7-8 M of this title) (see special provisions in section
11-3-42  or
11-3-43  of this title).
•   Research laboratories and institutions.
•   Restaurants, formula.
•   Schools (K - 12).
•    Veterinary hospital. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 19-24, 12-16-2019;
Ord. 20-12, 9-21-2020; Ord. 21-17, 12-6-2021; Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2022; Ord. 22-04,
3-21-2022; Ord. 22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2K-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
this district:
                       All new structures with a building footprint of 10,000
                       square feet or greater, existing structures where an
                       addition causes the total footprint to be 10,000 square
                       feet or greater, and additions to structures where the
Bulk and scale         footprint already is 10,000 square feet or greater, with
                       the exception of multi- family and mixed-use with multi-
                       family, are subject to a conditional use permit pursuant
                       to section 
                       11-7-8 of this title
Minimum lot area       n/a
Minimum lot width      n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                  20 feet
                       30 feet, landscaped as required per the general planting
                       standards of Table 11-4-3A-1 of Chapter 4 of this title.
Highway 93 frontage:   Vehicle and pedestrian ingress and egress may be allowed
                       in this area up to a maximum of 40 percent of the
                       landscaped area.
Side                   20 feet when abutting a Residential District; otherwise,
                       none
Rear                   20 feet when abutting a Residential District; otherwise,
                       none
Maximum height         35 feet
Permitted lot coverage n/a
Off street parking     See
                       chapter 6 of this title
Accessory uses         Accessory uses must maintain the same yard requirements
                       as the primary use
                       See
Landscaping            chapter 4 of this title (single-family and duplex uses
                       exempted)
 
(Ord. 07-06, 3-5-2007; amd. Ord. 19-24, 12-16-2019; Ord. 20-12, 9-21-2020; Ord.
23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE L. WB-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2L-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2L-2: Permitted Uses
11-2L-3: Conditional Uses
11-2L-4: Property Development Standards
11-2L-5: Noise Control
11-2L-6: Nonconforming Uses
11-2L-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WB-3 District is a broad Commercial District intended to accommodate
financial, retail, governmental, professional, institutional and cultural
activities. The WB-3 District also encompasses two (2) unique commercial areas
which require special considerations: the Old Town Central District (Central
Avenue between 4th Street and Depot Street, the west side of Spokane Avenue
between 4th Street and 3rd Street, both sides of Spokane Avenue from 3rd Street
to Railway Street, the east side of Baker Avenue between 4th Street and 3rd
Street, and both sides of Baker Avenue between 3rd Street and Railway Street),
and the Old Town Railway District (Railway Street to 3rd Street, and the east
side of Miles Avenue to both sides of Lupfer Avenue). This zoning
classification is not intended for general application throughout the Whitefish
area. (Ord. 18-25, 9-4-2018)
11-2L-2: PERMITTED USES:
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Colleges, business and trade schools, with the exception that in the Old
Town Central District, such use is limited to floors other than the ground
floor.
•    Convention centers.
•    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals), with the exception that in
the Old Town Central District, such use is limited to floors other than the
ground floor.
•    Dry cleaning and cleaning agencies, with the exception of the Old Town
Central District.
•    Financial institutions and professional offices, with the exception that
on Central Avenue between Fourth and Railway, such uses must be located on
floors other than the ground floor or else be ancillary to the retail use,
covering no more than thirty percent (30%) of the ground floor area and not
visible from Central Avenue nor located within the retail storefront area.
•    Governmental, cultural and institutional facilities.
•    Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•    Entertainment uses.
•    Music and dance studios, with the exception that in the Old Town Central
District, such use is limited to floors other than the ground floor unless
associated with a performing arts center.
•    Newspaper publishing and printing establishments, with the exception that
in the Old Town Central District, such use is limited to floors other than the
ground floor.
•    Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding repair or storage facilities.
•    Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•    Residential, with the exception that in the Old Town Central District,
such use, with the exception of multi-family, is limited to floors other than
the ground floor:
   •    Accessory dwelling units, when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Boarding houses, fraternity and sorority houses.
   •    Foster and group homes.
   •    Guesthouse, when an accessory use to a one-family dwelling.
   •    Multi-family dwellings.
   •    Single-family, duplex, triplex, and fourplex dwellings, including
residential short-term rentals.
•    Restaurants, with the exception of formula restaurants (see definition of
"formula retail" in section
11-9-2 of this title).
•    Retail sales and service, with the exception of "formula retail" (see
definition in section
11-9-2 of this title).
•    Shopping malls.
•    Upholstery and drapery shops, with the exception of Central Avenue between
Fourth and Railway.
•    Vendors (see special provisions in section
11-3-23 of this title).
•    Veterinarian office, small animal, with the exception of the Old Town
Central District. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 23-
13, 8-21-2023)
11-2L-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Automotive service stations, with the exception of the Old Town Central
District and the Old Town Railway District.
•   Bars/lounges.
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses, parsonages,
rectories, convents and dormitories, with the exception that in the Old Town
Central District, such use is limited to floors other than the ground floor.
•   Clubs.
•   Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals), with the exception that in the
Old Town Central District, such use is limited to floors other than the ground
floor.
•    Hotels and motels.
•   Marijuana manufacturing.
•   Marijuana sales (administrative CUP). Formula businesses prohibited.
•   Microbreweries and microdistilleries.
•   Residential:
   •   Dwelling groups or clusters
•   Schools (K - 12), with the exception that in the Old Town Central District,
such use is limited to floors other than the ground floor.
•   Wholesale, light assembly and light manufacturing. Such uses must contain a
retail component at ground level fronting a major street if located on Central
Avenue between Fourth and Railway. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 21-17, 12-
6-2021; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2L-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
this district:
                               All new structures with a building footprint of
                               15,000 (7,500 for Old Town Central and Railway
                               Districts) square feet or greater, existing
                               structures where an addition causes the total
                               footprint to be 15,000 (7,500 for Old Town
                               Central and Railway Districts) square feet or
Bulk and scale                 greater, and additions to structures where the
                               footprint already is 15,000 (7,500 for Old Town
                               Central and Railway Districts) square feet or
                               greater, with the exception of multi-family and
                               mixed-use with multi-family, are subject to a
                               conditional use permit pursuant to section
                               11-7-8 of this title
Minimum lot area               n/a
Minimum lot width              n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
                               15 feet on Second Street west of Lupfer Avenue
                               except for Lots 8, 9, 10 and the east 6 feet of
                               Lot 11, block 38, Whitefish original. 15 feet on
                               Kalispell Avenue, 10 feet on Lupfer Avenue north
Front                          of East Second Street and all streets west of
                               Lupfer except Second Street. 20 feet on Lupfer
                               Avenue south of East Second Street and all
                               streets south of East Second Street and west of
                               Lupfer Avenue. None on all other streets.
Side                           15 feet when abutting a Residential District;
                               otherwise, none
Rear                           15 feet when abutting a Residential District;
                               otherwise, none
                               E. First Street (Baker Avenue east to Lupfer
                               Avenue - north side of Block 37, Whitefish
                               original and south side of Block 26, Whitefish
                               original); Lupfer Avenue (E. First Street to E.
Railway District Shopping Loop Second Street - west side of Block 37, Whitefish
                               original). In order to facilitate development of
                               the Shopping Loop, new structures or additions
                               to existing structures within the Shopping Loop,
                               the following setbacks apply:
Front                          5 feet on Lupfer Avenue; 15 feet on E. First
                               Street.
Side                           15 feet when the side property line is adjacent
                               to E. First Street; between buildings, none.
Rear                           None.
                               45 feet, 3 stories maximum, subject to the
                               height and building design requirements of
                               section
                               11-3-5 of this title, as well as the size,
                               scale, and bulk restrictions of the
Maximum height                 architectural design standards. The overall
                               height must also include the features listed in
                               subsection
                               11-2-3B5 of this chapter, with the exception of
                               aerials, belfries, chimneys, church spires, and
                               flagpoles
Permitted lot coverage         n/a
Off street parking             See parking and loading in section
                               11-6-3-3 of this title, WB-3 special conditions
                               Accessory uses must maintain the same yard
                               requirements as the primary use. However,
                               accessory uses (excluding any type of living
Accessory uses                 quarters) may be built within 3 feet of a side
                               or rear lot line that does not border a street,
                               a river or lake, or the front half of any
                               adjoining lot
                               See
Landscaping                    chapter 4 of this title (single-family and
                               duplex uses exempted)
 
(Ord. 18-25, 9-4-2018; amd. Ord. 19-20, 10-7-2019; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2L-5: NOISE CONTROL:
No commercial business located in the WB-3 Zoning District shall broadcast
prerecorded music by means of: a) an audio speaker located outside of a
business and directed toward the sidewalk or street located near such business;
or b) an audio speaker located inside such business but broadcasting through an
open window or door toward the public sidewalk or streets. This section shall
not prohibit restaurants with outdoor dining from providing music to their
patrons if the audio speakers used are directed away from the public sidewalk
and streets, and are set at a loudness level allowing only an insignificant
amount of volume to spill out onto the public sidewalk and streets; provided,
however, that before such restaurants shall use such speakers, they shall first
arrange an inspection by the Zoning Administrator, or his designee, to allow a
determination to be made whether their speakers, and the volume used, are
acceptable under this section. Once inspected and approved, such restaurants
shall not alter the direction of their audio speakers and shall not increase
the volume that was used during such inspection. A violation of this section
shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as set forth in the general penalty
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-25, 9-4-2018)
11-2L-6: NONCONFORMING USES:
Ground floor professional office uses made nonconforming on Central Avenue
between Third Street and Railway Street through the passage of amendments
approved through adoption of an ordinance passed on November 17, 2008, shall be
allowed to remain as legal nonconforming uses indefinitely, until such use is
changed to a conforming use, after which a conforming use must be maintained.
Such nonconforming uses shall not be subject to the one hundred eighty (180)
day restriction contained in subsection
11-7-11B of this title. (Ord. 18-25, 9-4-2018)
ARTICLE M. WB-4 BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2M-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2M-2: Permitted Uses
11-2M-3: Conditional Uses
11-2M-4: Property Development Standards
11-2M-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WB-4 district is intended to allow the development of business parks
providing for light industrial, wholesale and ancillary commercial uses.
Business parks are intended to incorporate open space, landscaping,
architecture, circulation, parking and signage in an integrated and harmonious
design. The district is intended to be located in an urban environment with
arterial or collector street access and connection to municipal utilities and
services. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982)
11-2M-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Accessory retail or personal services, not exceeding five hundred (500)
square feet of floor area.
•   Automobile and boat services (excluding body repair).
•   Building supply outlets.
•   Convenience stores, not to exceed two thousand (2,000) square feet of floor
area.
•   Daycare centers (16 or more individuals).
•   Financial institutions.
•   Hospitals or clinics.
•   Light assembly, manufacturing, fabricating, processing, repairing, packing
or storage facilities in enclosed buildings, provided that such uses do not
create objectionable characteristics (such as dirt, noise, glare, heat, odor,
smoke) which extend beyond lot lines, and do not involve materials that are
explosive, hazardous or toxic.
•   Machinery and equipment sales, rental and repair.
•   Marijuana manufacturing, cultivation, and testing.
•   Nurseries and landscape materials, wholesale and retail.
•   Offices: professional, governmental or business.
•   Parcel delivery services.
•   Parks.
•   Printing and publishing.
•   Public buildings and utilities.
•   Research laboratories and institutions.
•   Residential:
   •   Caretaker's units (see special provisions in section
11-3-6 of this title).
   •    Multi-family and mixed-use, five (5) or more units.
•   Restaurants, not including gambling or the sale of alcohol.
•   Veterinary hospital.
•   Wholesale and warehousing. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-
2005; Ord. 21-17, 12-6-2021; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2M-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Auditorium, convention facilities or other places of assembly.
•   Colleges, business or trade schools.
•   Marijuana sales as an accessory use, limited to five hundred (500) square
feet of floor area (administrative CUP). (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 21-
17, 12-6-2021)
11-2M-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
this district:
Minimum district size  n/a
Minimum lot area       n/a
Minimum lot width      n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                  30 feet
Side                   15 feet
Rear                   15 feet
Maximum height         35 feet
Permitted lot coverage 40 percent
Off street parking     See
                       chapter 6 of this title
Accessory uses         Accessory uses must maintain the same yard requirements
                       as the primary uses
 
Site plan required:
The site plan, vicinity map and building elevations must be submitted to and
approved by the zoning administrator to erect new buildings or structures, make
additions exceeding ten percent (10%) of the floor area or existing buildings
or structures, or otherwise grade or develop a lot for a permitted use prior to
the issuance of a building permit. A comprehensive site plan is required for
multiple-tenant projects. Site plans must include all buildings, structures,
parking, driveways, sidewalks, utilities, drainage, hydrants, landscaping and
signage. The vicinity map must include surrounding parcels, buildings,
structures, circulation systems and major physical features. The site plan must
demonstrate conformance with the zoning regulations and other applicable city
regulations. All projects constructed in accordance with an approved site plan
must be permanently maintained as approved. Any desired subsequent changes must
be submitted for approval as an amendment to the site plan. Prior to occupancy,
the site must be inspected for compliance with the site plan. All improvements
must be installed and functioning before occupancy will be allowed.
Landscaping:
   A.   See
chapter 4 of this title
Building design:
   A.   The design, scale and arrangement of structures and uses must be
compatible with the surroundings.
   B.   Site and building design must be expressive of locality. Commercial
franchise architecture is discouraged.
   C.   Exposed utilities, storage areas, machinery, installations, service and
loading areas and similar accessory areas and structures must be set back or
screened to minimize the loss of views, privacy and the general aesthetic value
of surroundings.
Signage:
   A.   See
chapter 5 of this title.
   B.   A maximum of one square foot of wall or freestanding sign area for each
one lineal foot of continuous lot frontage up to a maximum of one hundred fifty
(150) square feet of total sign area per property.
   C.   No more than one freestanding sign per property is permitted. No more
than one sign per tenant, except on corner sites where not more than two (2)
signs are permitted.
   D.   Freestanding signs must not exceed a maximum height of ten feet (10')
or three feet (3') below the roof line, whichever is least. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-
1982; amd. Ord. 96-12, 10-7-1996; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE N. WRR-1 LOW DENSITY RESORT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2N-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2N-2: Permitted Uses
11-2N-3: Conditional Uses
11-2N-4: Property Development Standards
11-2N-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WRR-1 District is intended to provide a low density setting for secondary
residential resorts. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982)
11-2N-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •    Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1  of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 children).
   •    Single-family through triplex dwelling units, including short term
residential rentals, resort and recreational condominiums, townhouses, time
sharing and interval ownership residences, vacation units or other multiple
ownership arrangement residential uses, allowing overnight accommodations and
ancillary services for the use of occupants and guests.
•    Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14C of this title). (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2022; Ord.
22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-
2023)
11-2N-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Boarding houses.
•   Boat launching ramps and docks (commercial).
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses, parsonages,
rectories, convents and dormitories.
•   Clubs, private and semiprivate recreational facilities.
•   Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Marinas (commercial).
•    Meeting rooms.
•    Professional offices.
•    Public golf courses.
•    Residential:
   •    Caretaker’s unit.
   •    Dwelling groups or clusters.
   •    Guesthouses.
   •    Manufactured home parks (5 acres minimum size).
   •    Fourplex and multi-family dwellings including short term residential
rentals, resort and recreational condominiums, townhouses, time sharing and
interval ownership residences or vacation units or other multiple ownership
arrangement residential uses, allowing overnight accommodations and ancillary
services for the use of occupants and guests (see special provisions in section
11-3-42  of this title).
   •    Fourplex and multi-family dwellings deed restricted for no short- term
rentals - administrative conditional use permit (subsection
11-7-8 M of this title) (see special provisions in section
11-3-42  of this title).
•    Schools (K - 12).
•   Type I community residential facilities. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord.
21-20, 1-3-2022; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-
2023)
11-2N-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum
district    Minimum 1 acre with a maximum density of 10 dwelling units per gross acre
size
Minimum lot n/a
area
Minimum lot n/a
width
Minimum yard spaces:
            15 feet, except when fronting on a public right of way where there must be a
            front yard setback of not less than 25 feet, landscaped as required per the
Front       minimum landscape standards of Chapter 4. Vehicle and pedestrian ingress and
            egress may be allowed in this area up to a maximum of 40 percent of the
            landscape area.
Side        10 feet
3 or more   15 feet
units
Rear        20 feet
Wisconsin
Avenue      35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right- of-way
setback
Maximum     35 feet
height
Permitted
lot         35 percent maximum
coverage
 
Off street  See
parking     chapter 6 of this title
            Accessory buildings conforming to the definition in section
            11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject to the standards set forth in section
            11-3-2 of this title. Accessory buildings with footprints not exceeding 600
Accessory   square feet must be set back a minimum of 6 feet from side and rear property
buildings   lines that do not border a street, lake, any intermittent or perennial stream,
            or the front ½ of any adjoining lot. Setbacks for accessory buildings with
            footprints exceeding 600 square feet must be the same as those for the
            principal structure
Landscaping See
            chapter 4  of this title (single-family and duplex uses exempted)
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 03-21, 9-2-2003; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord.
19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE O. WRR-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESORT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2O-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2O-2: Permitted Uses
11-2O-3: Conditional Uses
11-2O-4: Property Development Standards
11-2O-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WRR-2 District is intended for resort purposes and to provide a medium
density setting for secondary residential resorts. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982)
11-2O-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses, or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •    Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •   Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 children).
   •    Fraternity and sorority houses.
   •    Single-family through fourplex dwelling units, including short term
residential rentals, resort and recreational condominiums, townhouses, time
sharing and interval ownership residences, vacation units or other multiple
ownership arrangement residential uses, allowing overnight accommodations and
ancillary services for the use of occupants and guests.
•    Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14C of this title). (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2022; Ord.
22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-
2023)
11-2O-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Boarding houses.
•   Boat launching ramps and docks (commercial).
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses, parsonages,
rectories, convents and dormitories.
•   Clubs, private and semiprivate recreational facilities.
•   Colleges, business and trade schools.
•   Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Funeral homes and mortuaries.
•    Marinas (commercial).
•    Meeting rooms.
•    Professional offices.
•    Public golf courses.
•    Residential:
   •    Caretaker’s unit.
   •    Dwelling groups or clusters.
   •    Guesthouses.
   •    Manufactured home parks (5 acres minimum size).
   •    Multi-family dwellings, including short term residential rentals,
resort and recreational condominiums, townhouses, time sharing and interval
ownership residences or vacation units or other multiple ownership arrangement
residential uses, allowing overnight accommodations and ancillary services for
the use of occupants and guests (see special provisions in section
11-3-42 of this title).
   •    Multi-family dwellings deed restricted for no short-term rentals -
administrative conditional use permit (subsection
11-7-8M of this title) (see special provisions in section
11-3-42 of this title).
•    Schools (K - 12).
•   Type I community residential facilities. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord.
21-20, 1-3-2022; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-
2023)
11-2O-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum district size    Minimum 21/2 acres with a maximum density of 10
                         dwelling units per gross acre
Minimum lot area         n/a
Minimum lot width        n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
                         15 feet, except when fronting on a public right of way
                         where there must be a front yard setback of not less
                         than 25 feet, landscaped as required per the minimum
Front                    landscape standards of Chapter 4. Vehicle and
                         pedestrian ingress and egress may be allowed in this
                         area up to a maximum of 40 percent of the landscaped
                         area
Side                     10 feet
3 or more units          15 feet
Rear                     20 feet
Wisconsin Avenue setback 35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right- of-way
 
Maximum height           35 feet
Permitted lot coverage   70 percent maximum
Off street parking       See
                         chapter 6  of this title
                         Accessory buildings conforming to the definition in
                         section
                         11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject to the
                         standards set forth in section
                         11-3-2 of this title. Accessory buildings with
Accessory buildings      footprints not exceeding 600 square feet must be set
                         back a minimum of 6 feet from side and rear property
                         lines that do not border a street, lake, any
                         intermittent or perennial stream, or the front 1/2 of
                         any adjoining lot. Setbacks for accessory buildings
                         with footprints exceeding 600 square feet must be the
                         same as those for the principal structure
                         See
Landscaping              chapter 4  of this title (single-family and duplex
                         uses exempted)
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 03-21, 9-2-2003; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord.
19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE P. WRB-1 LIMITED RESORT BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2P-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2P-2: Permitted Uses
11-2P-3: Conditional Uses
11-2P-4: Property Development Standards
11-2P-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WRB-1 District is intended for resort purposes; to provide for the
development of medium to high density resort uses, including hotels, motels,
resort condominiums and other similar uses oriented toward tourism and resort
businesses. This district is to also provide a place for meeting rooms,
convention centers and facilities, bars, lounges and restaurants and limited
ancillary retail and commercial uses intended primarily for the convenience of
guests of the facilities provided within this district. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982)
11-2P-2: PERMITTED USES:
•    Ancillary commercial and retail facilities in an established resort
complex which meet the following conditions:
   A.    The total floor area devoted to such commercial or retail uses must
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total floor area of the main building
situated on the lot.
   B.    No such commercial or retail use can have an outside entrance intended
for the use of the public. Entrances for ancillary uses must be located within
the main building. No individual shop can exceed five hundred (500) square feet
of floor space.
   C.    No exterior signs.
   D.    The commercial or retail facilities must be as listed below or of a
similar nature:
      •    Art galleries.
      •    Bakery shops.
      •    Barber and beautician shops.
      •    Bars/lounges/casinos in conjunction with and ancillary to
established lodging facilities. (Note: Requires a conditional use permit.)
      •    Candy shops.
      •    Coffee shops and restaurant facilities.
      •    Florist shops.
      •    Game rooms.
      •    Garment shops.
      •    Gift, curio and hobby shops.
      •    Grocery stores.
      •    Health studios.
      •    Ice cream shops.
      •    Laundry and cleaning pick up stations.
      •    Sporting goods shops.
      •    Travel agencies.
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•   Boarding houses.
•    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
•    Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•    Hotels and motels.
•    Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•    Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses or recreational facilities
including parks and playgrounds.
•    Residential:
   •    Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1  of this title).
   •    Fraternity and sorority houses.
   •    Single-family dwellings through multi-family dwelling units, including
mixed-use, short term residential rentals, resort and recreational
condominiums, townhouses, time sharing and interval ownership residences or
vacation units and other multiple ownership arrangement residential uses,
allowing overnight accommodations and ancillary services for the use of
occupants and guests.
•    Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14 C of this title). (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2022;
Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13,
8-21-2023)
11-2P-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Boat launching ramps and docks (commercial).
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses, parsonages,
rectories, convents and dormitories.
•   Clubs, private and semiprivate recreational facilities.
•   Colleges, business and trade schools.
•   Commercial recreational facilities.
•   Convention centers and facilities.
•   Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Funeral homes and mortuaries.
•    Marinas (commercial).
•    Professional offices.
•    Recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds (2 acre minimum size).
•    Residential:
   •    Dwelling groups or clusters.
   •    Manufactured home parks (5 acres minimum size).
•    Schools (K - 12).
•    Ski areas and facilities.
•   Type I community residential facilities. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; Ord. 22-04,
3-21-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2P-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
this district:
Minimum district size    5 acres
Minimum lot area         n/a
Minimum lot width        n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
                         15 feet, except when fronting on a public right of way
                         where there must be a front yard setback of not less
                         than 25 feet, landscaped as required per the minimum
Front                    landscape standards of Chapter 4. Vehicle and
                         pedestrian ingress and egress may be allowed in this
                         area up to a maximum of 40 percent of the landscaped
                         area.
Side                     10 feet
3 or more units          15 feet
Rear                     20 feet
Lakeshore setback        35 feet horizontally from the mean annual high water
                         line
Wisconsin Avenue setback 35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right- of-way
Maximum height           35 feet
Permitted lot coverage   40 percent
Off street parking       See
                         chapter 6 of this title
                         Accessory uses must maintain the same yard
                         requirements as the primary use. However, accessory
Accessory uses           uses (excluding any type of living quarters) may be
                         built within 6 feet of a side or rear lot line that
                         does not border a street, a river or lake, or the
                         front half of any adjoining lot
                         See
Landscaping              chapter 4 of this title (single-family and duplex uses
                         exempted)
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 03-21, 9-2-2003; Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord.
23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE Q. WRB-2 GENERAL RESORT BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2Q-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2Q-2: Permitted Uses
11-2Q-3: Conditional Uses
11-2Q-4: Property Development Standards
11-2Q-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WRB-2 District is intended to provide for the development of high density
resort oriented uses usually identified with a tourist or convention
destination center. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982)
11-2Q-2: PERMITTED USES:
•    Ancillary commercial and retail facilities in an established resort
complex which meet the following conditions:
   A.    The total floor area devoted to such commercial or retail uses must
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total floor area of the main building
situated on the lot.
   B.    No such commercial or retail use can have an outside entrance intended
for the use of the public. Entrances for ancillary uses must be located within
the main building. No individual shop can exceed five hundred (500) square feet
of floor space.
   C.    No exterior signs.
   D.    The commercial or retail facilities must be as listed below or of a
similar nature:
      •    Art galleries.
      •    Automotive service stations.
      •    Bakery shops.
      •    Barber and beautician shops.
      •    Bars/lounges/casinos in conjunction with and ancillary to
established lodging facilities. (Note: Requires a conditional use permit.)
      •    Candy shops.
      •    Coffee shops and restaurant facilities.
      •    Florist shops.
      •    Game rooms.
      •    Garment shops.
      •    Gift, curio and hobby shops.
      •    Grocery stores.
      •    Health studios.
      •    Ice cream shops.
      •    Laundry and cleaning pick up stations.
      •    Sporting goods shops.
      •    Travel agencies.
•    Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•    Boarding houses.
•    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
•    Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•    Hotels and motels.
•    Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•    Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses or recreational facilities
including parks and playgrounds.
•    Residential:
   •    Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1  of this title).
   •    Fraternity and sorority houses.
   •    Single-family through multi-family dwelling units, including mixed-use,
short term residential rentals, resort and recreational condominiums,
townhouses, time sharing and interval ownership
•    Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14C of this title). (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019, amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2022; Ord.
22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-
2023)
11-2Q-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Boat launching ramps and docks (commercial).
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses, parsonages,
rectories, convents and dormitories.
•   Clubs, private and semiprivate recreational facilities.
•   Colleges, business and trade schools.
•   Commercial recreational facilities.
•   Convention centers and facilities.
•   Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•    Funeral homes and mortuaries.
•    Marinas (commercial).
•    Professional offices.
•    Recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds (2 acre minimum size).
•    Residential:
   •    Dwelling groups or clusters.
   •    Manufactured home parks (5 acres minimum size)
•    Schools (K - 12).
•    Ski areas and facilities.
•   Type I community residential facilities. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; Ord. 22-04,
3-21-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2Q-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
Minimum district size    15 acres
Minimum lot area         n/a
Minimum lot width        n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
                         15 feet, except when fronting on a public right of way
                         where there must be a front yard setback of not less
                         than 25 feet, landscaped as required per the minimum
Front                    landscape standards of Chapter 4. Vehicle and
                         pedestrian ingress and egress may be allowed in this
                         area up to a maximum of 40 percent of the landscaped
                         area.
Side                     10 feet
3 or more units          15 feet
Rear                     20 feet
Lakeshore setback        35 feet horizontally from the mean annual high water
                         line
Wisconsin Avenue setback 35 feet from the Wisconsin Avenue right- of-way
Maximum height           35 feet
Permitted lot coverage   60 percent
Off street parking       See
                         chapter 6 of this title
                         Accessory uses must maintain the same yard
                         requirements as the primary use. However, accessory
Accessory uses           uses (excluding any type of living quarters) may be
                         built within 6 feet of a side or rear lot line that
                         does not border a street, a river or lake, or the
                         front half of any adjoining lot
                         See
Landscaping              chapter 4 of this title (single-family and duplex uses
                         exempted)
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 96-12, 10-7-1996; Ord. 03-21, 9-2-2003; Ord.
19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE R. WI INDUSTRIAL AND WAREHOUSING DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2R-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2R-2: Permitted Uses
11-2R-3: Conditional Uses
11-2R-4: Property Development Standards
11-2R-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WI district is intended for light industrial purposes and to provide for
light industrial and service uses in which a reasonable degree of control is
desirable for the general well being of the community area. (Ord. 03-15, 6-16-
2003)
11-2R-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Automobile and boat service.
•   Boat and recreational vehicle storage (see special provisions in section
11-3-32 of this title).
•   Building supply outlets.
•   Contractors' yards.
•   Heavy equipment service.
•   Janitorial services.
•   Light industrial manufacturing, fabricating, processing, repairing, packing
or storing facilities.
•   Marijuana manufacturing, cultivation, and testing.
•   Nurseries and landscape materials: retail and wholesale.
•   Office space (less than 10,000 square feet).
•   Parcel delivery services.
•   Petroleum products: retail.
•   Public utility facilities and storage yards.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Railroad yards.
•   Research laboratories and institutions.
•   Tire sales. (Ord. 09-05, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. 21-17, 12-6-2021)
11-2R-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Automobile and boat sales.
•   Automobile wrecking yards (requires state license).
•   Heavy equipment sales and rental.
•   Heavy industrial manufacturing, fabricating and processing.
•   Junkyards (requires state license).
•   Marijuana sales as an accessory use (administrative CUP).
•   Microbreweries and microdistilleries.
•   Outdoor amusements.
•   Petroleum products, wholesale.
•   Sexually oriented businesses, as defined in section
11-9-2 of this title.
•   Tire retreading and recapping. (Ord. 16-03, 2-1-2016; amd. Ord. 21-17, 12-
6-2021)
11-2R-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
this district:
Minimum district size  n/a
Minimum lot size       n/a
Minimum lot width      n/a
Minimum yard spaces:
 Front                30 feet
 Side                 5 feet each
                       5 feet when abutting an alley; 15 feet when abutting a
 Rear                 public street or highway; 20 feet when abutting a
                       residential or resort district
Maximum height         35 feet
Permitted lot coverage 70 percent
Off street parking     See
                       chapter 6 of this title
Accessory uses         Accessory uses must maintain the same yard requirements
                       as the primary use
Landscaping            See
                       chapter 4 of this title
 
(Ord. 03-15, 6-16-2003; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE S. WPUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2S-1: Purpose And Intent
11-2S-2: PUD Types And Permitted Uses
11-2S-3: Standards Of Development
11-2S-4: Legal Requirements
11-2S-5: Deviations From Standards
11-2S-6: Community Benefit
11-2S-7: Application Procedure
11-2S-8: Approval Of The Planned Unit Development
11-2S-9: Enforcement And Modification
11-2S-10: Abandonment Or Expiration
11-2S-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the WPUD overlay is to:
   A.   Provide a community development tool that encourages creativity and
innovation in design and development.
   B.   Allow design flexibility so as to enhance the character and quality of
development through variety in the type, design, and arrangement of structures
and improvements.
   C.   Allow the developer and design professionals the flexibility to respond
to unique qualities and environmental characteristics of a site.
   D.   Ensure that new development respects the character, scale, and
qualities of the surrounding neighborhood.
   E.   Encourage new development to integrate with existing neighborhoods to
result in stronger, livable, sustainable neighborhoods, rather than series of
individual developments.
   F.   Allow the developer to incorporate the latest innovations in design and
construction techniques to address market demands and housing needs of the
Whitefish community. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019)
11-2S-2: PUD TYPES AND PERMITTED USES:
Four (4) types of Planned Unit Development Overlays are available, depending on
the underlying zoning and intended use.
   A.   Residential Planned Unit Development (R-PUD): The purpose of the
Residential PUD option is to facilitate creatively designed, livable
neighborhoods in Residential Zoning Districts where the proposed product type,
density, scale, and character are appropriate and complement adjacent
development. The residential units provided could include single-family
attached and detached as well as duplex, triplex, fourplex and multi-family of
all types. The Residential PUD provides for design flexibility and the ability
to vary certain standards in order to deal effectively with physical
constraints such as parcel configuration, topography, and environmentally
sensitive areas.
      1.   A Residential PUD may be established in all districts except WB-4,
WI, and WI-T.
      2.   Permitted uses:
         •   Accessory buildings and uses.
         •   Any uses permitted or conditionally permitted in the underlying
zoning district, provided that any conditional use is specifically considered
with the PUD and all conditional use criteria required under this Code for that
use are met or conditioned with the PUD approval. If a conditional use is not
considered during the PUD approval, then such uses must follow the standard CUP
review process found in section
11-7-8 of this title.
         •   Private and/or semiprivate recreation and service facilities
intended for the residents of the district.
         •   Residential:
         •   Multi-family dwellings.
         •   Single-family dwellings.
         •   Two-family dwellings.
         •   Three-family dwellings.
         •   Four-family dwellings.
         •   A combination of any of the above arranged in attached, detached,
townhouse, apartment, or condominium configurations.
   B.   Mixed-Use Planned Unit Development (M-PUD): The Mixed-Use PUD is
primarily intended to provide for the mixing of compatible non-residential uses
allowed in the underlying zone with residential units of various types in urban
areas. Residential product types include single-family, two-family, three-
family, four-family, and multi-family in any ownership configuration.
Residential types also include units integrated into primarily non-residential
structures, including above office and retail space. Where the zoning is both
residential and non- residential, the amount of land dedicated to any non-
residential component must generally be consistent with and give due
consideration to the location and extent of the non-residential zoning.
      1.   A mixed-use PUD may be established in any Non-Residential Zoning
District with the exception of the WI, and the WI-T, as well as where the
overall development also includes both non-residential and residential zoning.
      2.   Permitted uses:
         •   Accessory buildings and uses.
         •   Any uses permitted or conditionally permitted in the underlying
zoning district, provided that any conditional use is specifically considered
with the PUD and all conditional use criteria required under this Code for that
use are met or conditioned with the PUD approval. If a proposed conditional use
is not noted with the PUD application, then such uses must follow the standard
CUP review process found in section
11-7-8 of this title. Other uses may also be considered for which justification
can be derived on the basis that the use will be compatibly incorporated into
the design and use of the planned development. Such uses should be integrated
with and complementary to included and adjacent residential uses.
         •   Private and/or semiprivate recreation and service facilities
intended for the residents of the district.
         •   Residential:
            •   Single-family dwellings.
            •   Two-family dwellings.
            •   Three-family dwellings.
            •   Four-family dwellings.
            •   Multi-family dwellings.
            •   A combination of any of the above arranged in attached,
detached, townhouse, apartment, or condominium configurations.
   C.   Commercial Planned Unit Development (C-PUD): The purpose of the
Commercial PUD option is to promote flexibility in design and permit planned
diversification in the relationships between location of and types of uses and
structures; promote the advantages of large scale site planning through the
efficient use of land, facilitating a more economic arrangement of buildings,
circulation systems, land uses, and utilities; preserve, to the greatest extent
possible, the existing landscape features and amenities, and to utilize such
features in a harmonious way.
      1.   A Commercial PUD may be established in the following districts: WB-
1, WB-2, WB-3, WB-4, WRB-1, WRB-2, WBMV, WBSD, WB-T, and WI-T
      2.   Permitted uses:
         •   Any uses permitted or conditionally permitted in the underlying
zoning district, provided that any conditional use is specifically considered
with the PUD and all conditional use criteria required under this Code for that
use are met or conditioned with the PUD approval. If a proposed conditional use
is not noted with the PUD application, then such uses must follow the standard
CUP review process found in section
11-7-8 of this title. Other uses may also be considered for which justification
can be derived on the basis that the use will be compatibly incorporated into
the design and use of the planned development.
   D.   Light Industrial Or Industrial Planned Unit Development (I-PUD): The
Industrial PUD options are intended to allow complexes and clusters of
industrial and light industrial uses in either a lot by lot or integrated
business park configuration. Light manufacturing and fabrication can be
combined with offices, warehousing, and showroom space to create multi-
functional business and industrial facilities. Caretaker and on-site work force
housing can be provided where appropriate and compatible with the neighborhood
and specific industrial uses in the project.
      1.   A Light Industrial or Industrial PUD may be established in the
following districts: WB-4, WI, WBSD, WB-T, and WI-T.
      2.   Permitted uses:
         •   Any uses permitted or conditionally permitted in the underlying
zoning district, provided that any conditional use is specifically considered
with the PUD and all conditional use criteria required under this Code for that
use are met or conditioned with the PUD approval. If a proposed conditional use
is not noted with the PUD application, then such uses must follow the standard
CUP review process found in section
11-7-8 of this title. Other uses may be considered for which justification can
be derived on the basis that the use will be compatibly incorporated into the
design and use of the planned development. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-
13, 8-21-2023)
11-2S-3: STANDARDS OF DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Minimum Site Area: The minimum site area designated for a planned unit
development is two (2) acres except in the WR-2, WR-3, WR-4, and WB-3 Zoning
Districts where the minimum site area is one acre. The minimum site area may be
reduced from the standards set forth above should the Zoning Administrator
determine that a parcel, by virtue of its unique character, is best developed
as a PUD, or, the project meets the provisions for the density bonus described
in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Density Bonus: Residential and mixed-use developments may request
additional density if at least ten percent (10%) of the project's units are
permanently deed restricted for affordability or an alternative means of
compliance is provided per
11-1A-2  D and/or
11-1A-4  of this title, meeting the development standards found in Chapter 1A,
"Whitefish Legacy Homes Program", and providing a Housing Mitigation Plan. Such
projects are allowed the density bonus permitted therein without justification.
The maximum allowed residential density bonus for a planned unit development is
as follows:
Underlying Zone Base Zoning Density Maximum Allowed PUD Density
Underlying Zone Base Zoning Density            Maximum Allowed PUD Density
WA              2/15 dwelling unit/gross acre  1/5 dwelling unit/gross acre
WCR             0.8 dwelling unit/gross acre   1 dwelling unit/gross acre
WSR             2 dwelling unit/gross acre     3 dwelling units/gross acre
WER             4 dwelling units/gross acre    6 dwelling units/gross acre
WLR             6 dwelling units/gross acre    10 dwelling units/gross acre
WR-1            8 dwelling units/gross acre    14 dwelling units/gross acre
WR-2            14 dwelling units/gross acre   18 dwelling units/gross acre
WR-3            14 dwelling units/gross acre   21 dwelling units/gross acre
                38 rental or condominium units 57 rental or condominium units
WR-4            or 21 townhouse units/gross    or 31 townhouse units/gross acre
                acre
WB-1*           13 dwelling units/gross acre   20 dwelling units/gross acre
WB-2*           18 dwelling units/gross acre   24 dwelling units/gross acre
WB-3*           13 dwelling units/gross acre   20 dwelling units/gross acre
WB-4*           13 dwelling units/gross acre   20 dwelling units/gross acre
WRR-1           10 dwelling units/gross acre   10 dwelling units/gross acre
WRR-2           15 dwelling units/gross acre   15 dwelling units/gross acre
WRB-1*          15 dwelling units/gross acre   15 dwelling units/gross acre
WRB-2*          15 dwelling units/gross acre   15 dwelling units/gross acre
WT-3*           14 dwelling units/gross acre   20 dwelling units/gross acre
WBSD*           2 dwelling units/gross acre    4 dwelling units/gross acre
WB-T*           13 dwelling units/gross acre   20 dwelling units/gross acre
 
(*Gross acreage excludes all lands set aside for commercial or industrial
activities and associated accessory uses unless the PUD contains residential
above commercial uses.)
      1.   Maximum Average Density: In order to allow greater development
flexibility to achieve the purpose and intent outlined in section
11-2S-1 of this article, when a proposed PUD overlay site is subject to more
than one underlying zoning district, density averaging must determine the
maximum allowable density. Maximum average density per acre is calculated as
follows: (maximum density of zoning district A multiplied by acreage of zoning
district A) + (maximum density of zoning district B multiplied by acreage of
zoning district B) divided by (total combined acreage of property within
proposed PUD boundary). In no case will a PUD allow more units to be approved
than the maximum average density.
   C.   Open Space: Not more than seventy percent (70%) of the planned unit
development site can be devoted to parking facilities, streets, buildings, and
accessory buildings. The remaining thirty percent (30%) must remain as open
space as defined under section
11-9-2 of this title. Note: This provision does not apply to commercial or
industrial PUDs, mixed use PUDs in the WB 1 and WB 3 nor projects which both
propose only permitted uses and which comply with the minimum lot sizes of the
underlying zone.
For purposes of this article, minimum standards for open space are:
      1.   Open space must be common areas available to all residents (and the
public where applicable) and not private areas.
      2.   Open space must have active and/or passive recreational facilities
appropriate to the persons expected to reside within the proposed development.
      3.   Landscaped areas around buildings, parking lots, or roadways must be
a minimum of twenty feet (20') wide to be considered open space.
      4.   If all or a portion of the open space provided is available for use
by the general public or provides one or more public benefits such as those
listed under section
11-2S-6 of this article, it may be considered a community benefit.
      5.   Open space for non-residential PUDs can include hard scape
courtyards, plazas, or other public spaces without structures as long as those
areas include intermittent landscaping elements.
      When a planned unit development provides "affordable housing" as defined
in these regulations, the applicant may devote eighty percent (80%) of the
development to parking, street, and buildings with City Council approval. The
remaining twenty percent (20%) of the property must remain as open space.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading: Off street parking and loading must be
provided according to chapter 6, "Off Street Parking And Loading", of this
title.
   E.   Landscaping: Additional landscaping may be required by the City Council
to provide a buffer between proposed uses or between the adjacent zoning
districts.
   F.   Utilities: Utilities must be provided in a manner to meet the
specifications of the City Council.
   G.   Architectural Design: Architectural design of buildings must be
aesthetically compatible throughout the development. However, the applicant
must take appropriate measures to ensure that multi-family buildings and town
homes have a varied exterior appearance within the overall architectural theme.
Visual monotony and institutional sameness are to be avoided. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-
2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 8-16-2021; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2S-4: LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:
In a planned unit development where ownerships are subject to restrictions, the
subdivision plat, dedications, covenants, and other agreements must be recorded
in the Office of the County Clerk and Recorder. These documents will include
those that:
   A.   Create automatic membership in a nonprofit homeowners' association or
corporation to be formed to control, develop, and maintain common areas,
properties, and facilities.
   B.   Place title to any common property or facilities in the association or
corporation. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2S-5: DEVIATIONS FROM STANDARDS:
In order to provide flexibility in the design approach, the Planned Unit
Development Overlay allows deviations from many standards of the underlying
zoning district as well as from certain standards in the "Standards for Design
and Construction" (Public Works Design Manual). Any proposed deviations from
adopted standards above and beyond those allowed under
chapter 1A of this title must be justified by one or more clear community
benefits as set forth in section
11-2S-6 of this article, and shall directly relate to the purpose and intent of
the PUD as set forth in section
11-2S-1 of this article.
   A.   The following standards may be deviated from through approval of a PUD
site plan and PUD overlay:
      1.   Setbacks;
      2.   Building height;
      3.   Lot coverage;
      4.   Minimum lot size;
      5.   Lot width and/or frontage;
      6.   Any other lot standards set forth in the subdivision regulations;
      7.   Street design;
      8.   Stormwater management;
      9.   Sidewalks, except that fee in lieu of sidewalks may not be waived
except by the City Council for just cause;
      10.   Landscape standards, except for required buffers; and
      11.   Parking and loading standards.
   B.   Standards that may not be deviated from through the PUD overlay
include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following:
      1.   Density standards as set forth in this chapter. Where the PUD
Overlay includes more than one underlying zoning district, maximum average
density cannot be exceeded (see subsection
11-2S-3B1 of this article);
      2.   General categories of use as set forth in the underlying zoning
district (nonresidential use in a Residential Zoning District, etc.) except as
set forth in this chapter;
      3.   Lakeshore protection regulations;
      4.   Whitefish Legacy Homes Program standards (see chapter 1A of this
title);
      5.   Utility standards for construction, installation, sizing, etc.;
      6.   Fire Code requirements such as through access, specific access and
circulation requirements, hydrant locations, and sprinkling; and
      7.   Any and all fees and charges except as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 8-16-2021; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2S-6: COMMUNITY BENEFIT:
As set forth in section
11-2S-5 of this article, deviations from adopted standards must be justified by
one or more clear community benefits. For purposes of this article, a community
benefit is an amenity, facility, or service that is of intrinsic or economic
value to the community and/or adjacent neighborhood introduced by the proposed
planned development that would not otherwise be required. Community facilities
and services such as streets, water, sewer, and storm drainage (including on
and off- site easements for these facilities), and parkland and parkland
dedications or fees in lieu, that are required under a conventional subdivision
or other City codes or standards may not be considered community benefits. The
following list outlines desirable community benefits and is not all-inclusive
as each development site is unique and the developer may propose alternative
community benefits.
   A.   Environmentally Sensitive Areas: Protects environmentally sensitive
areas that would not be protected otherwise to the same degree as without a
PUD;
   B.   Natural Features: Preserves, enhances, and rehabilitates natural
features of the subject property, such as significant woodlands, native
vegetation, view sheds, topography, or non- critical area wildlife habitats,
not otherwise required by other City regulations;
   C.   Public Access: Providing public access to a trail, trailhead, bike
path, waterbody, parks, schools, or public lands;
   D.   Streetscapes: Providing streetscape improvements such as pedestrian
signals, ADA compliant curb height crossings, street furniture, bike racks,
public art, cultural and interpretive displays, transit shelters, etc.;
   E.   Public Facilities: Provides public facilities that could not be
required by the City for development of the subject property without a PUD,
such as fire stations, utility facilities, public playgrounds, recreational
facilities, public parking, bike paths, etc.;
   F.   Use Of Sustainable Development Techniques: Design which results in
sustainable development; such as LEED certification, energy efficiency, use of
alternative energy resources such as solar power, stormwater re-use, low impact
development techniques, etc.;
   G.   Rights-Of-Way: Extending public streets, bike paths, trails, and/or
sidewalks in compliance with adopted transportation plans;
   H.   Affordable Housing: Providing employee housing and/or permanently deed
restricted affordable housing, land, or fees in lieu consistent with housing
needs assessments and the Whitefish Legacy Homes chapter;
   I.   Affordable Housing Type: Providing a greater mix of affordable housing
unit types consistent with the array of housing types provided in the overall
development; or
   J.   Overall Design: Provides a PUD design that is superior to the design
that would result from development of the subject property without a PUD. A
superior design may include the following:
      1.   Open Space/Recreation:
         a.   Provides increased functional open space or recreational
facilities beyond standard Code requirements; and
         b.   Provides a quality environment through either passive or active
recreation facilities and attractive common areas, including accessibility to
buildings from parking areas and public walkways; or
      2.   Circulation/Screening: Provides superior circulation patterns or
location or screening of parking facilities; or
      3.   Landscaping/Screening: Provides superior landscaping, buffering, or
screening in or around the proposed planned urban development; or
      4.   Site And Building Design: Provides superior architectural design,
placement, relationship or orientation of structures, or use of solar energy;
or
      5.   Alleys: Provides alleys for proposed detached or attached units with
individual, private ground-related entries. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord.
21-11, 8-16-2021)
11-2S-7: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
A pre-application meeting with planning staff is required prior to application
submittal. The application for zoning or rezoning to a PUD district must be
executed by the individual(s) whose successors and assignees will be
responsible for carrying out the requirements and obligations of the planned
unit development district. The application may be accompanied by the
preliminary plat for joint review. Draft covenants must also be submitted. Any
submittal requirements set forth herein that are found to be not applicable to
a particular project or site may be waived or deferred by the Planning and
Building Department.
   A.   The applicant must furnish the following information and materials with
the application:
      1.   A written report on the results of any citizen participation effort
done on their part. If an outreach is done, the report must include details of
the techniques the applicant may have used to involve the public and the
surrounding neighborhoods. That may include dates and locations of meetings
where citizens were invited to discuss the proposal, copies of mailings, posted
notices, concept plans, etc., the name and location of those receiving notice,
and the number of people that participated in the process. The outreach report
should also include a summary of concerns and issues expressed by the public,
and how the applicant will address or not address said issues or concerns in
their formal proposal;
      2.   The proposed time schedule for the completion of the development or
the phasing thereof;
      3.   A copy of all proposed covenants, restrictions, and easements;
      4.   An ownership designation and management plan must be provided for
open space and common areas, including maintenance and weed control
responsibilities. If a homeowner's association (HOA) is the owner, membership
in the HOA is mandatory for all property owners within the development and
their successors, and the HOA must have lien authority for collection of dues
from all members. Should the responsible party fail to maintain all or a
portion of the development in reasonable order and condition, the City may
assume responsibility for maintenance and may enter the premises to take
corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The cost of
such maintenance, plus administrative costs and penalties, may be charged to
the owner, HOA, or to individual property owners that make up the HOA, and
unpaid costs will become a lien on all properties within the development;
      5.   The developer must provide a draft housing mitigation agreement as
set forth in section
11-1A-5 of this title if deed restricting housing units. Once finalized and
approved by the City Council as a component of the PUD, this agreement is a
legally binding contract between the developer and the City of Whitefish;
      6.   A copy of the proposed articles of incorporation and bylaws of any
corporation and/or homeowners' association to be formed;
      7.   Verification that the property is within the city limits or the
applicant has submitted a concurrent petition to annex. If petitioning for or
recently annexed into city limits, an application for zoning map amendment must
accompany the planned unit development application;
      8.   Any other information that the Planning Board or the City Council
may deem necessary;
      9.   Written statement of intent and justification for any proposed
deviations from standards above and beyond those allowed in section
11-1A-6 of this title. Each PUD application must include a written explanation
describing how the development meets the purpose and intent (section
11-2S-1 of this article) and approval criteria (subsection
11-2S-8B of this article) and describing the specific community benefits
(section
11-2S-6 of this article) of the proposed development and how the project
provides greater benefits to the City as applicable than would a development
carried out in accordance with otherwise applicable Zoning and Subdivision
Ordinance standards. The statement must also include a comparison of the
proposed development with the standards of the base zoning district,
subdivision standards, or public works standards and how it deviates from or
exceeds those standards.
   B.   A detailed "to scale" site plan must be provided that includes the
following:
      1.   Complete land development program including:
         a.   Total gross acreage;
         b.   Total undevelopable acreage;
         c.   Total net acreage;
         d.   Total area covered by buildings;
         e.   Total floor area of buildings and floor area ratio (FAR);
         f.   Total area dedicated to parking, loading, drive aisles, and other
paved surfaces; and
         g.   Total area of open space and landscape ratio (LSR).
      2.   Present zoning classification and zoning classification of all
surrounding properties;
      3.   Location, size, height, and number of stories, use or uses to be
contained in each existing or proposed structure;
      4.   Location, width, surfacing and layout of all streets, parking areas,
and pedestrian walks;
      5.   Location and number of proposed parking spaces;
      6.   Location, size, height and orientation of all signs in excess of one
square foot;
      7.   Location and height of all fences, walls, and screen plantings;
      8.   Location of all common spaces and facilities;
      9.   Proposed landscaping; and
      10.   Notation of all proposed deviations from standards.
   C.   All documents included in the site plan must include space for
certification of approval in accordance with the form used for subdivision
platting.
   D.   The preliminary plat (if required) must be prepared in accordance with
requirements of the subdivision regulations unless variances are granted and
must include space for certification of approval by the City Council. (Ord. 19-
11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 8-16-2021; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2S-8: APPROVAL OF THE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Approval of a planned unit development must be based upon a finding
that the proposed project substantially achieves the intent of the PUD as set
forth in section
11-2S-1 of this article, the approval criteria outlined below are met as
applicable, and that there are one or more clear community benefits and proper
justification for any proposed deviations from standards.
   B.   A PUD may be approved by the Whitefish City Council upon findings that
the approval criteria set forth herein are substantially met as they may apply
and adverse impacts identified through the development review process are
avoided or effectively mitigated through plan modification, conditions of
record, or other legal and proper means. Approval criteria are as follows:
      1.   Environmentally sensitive areas of the site must be preserved and
protected by the proposed development to the extent possible. Environmentally
sensitive areas include, but are not necessarily limited to, wetlands and
marshes, slopes in excess of twenty five percent (25%) average grade, and water
bodies such as lakes or streams on and/or adjacent to the site. All lakeshore
protection and water quality standards must be met.
      2.   Development must be sensitive to and respectful of wildlife habitat
and/or seasonal migration corridors as identified by a competent wildlife
assessment or verified by empirical evidence.
      3.   Open space, either planned for persons expected to reside in the
completed development (children, young adults, seniors, etc.) or available to
the public in general, must be provided by the development.
      4.   The character and qualities of existing neighborhoods must be
preserved and protected. Proposed PUDs are to be integrated into the existing
neighborhood in terms of scale, quality, character, and street continuity.
When, in the judgment of the City Council, such integration is not possible,
practical, or will otherwise not produce desired outcomes for the existing
neighborhood, effective buffering and transitions must be provided by the
proposed development.
      5.   Street continuity must be maintained through extending the Whitefish
street grid and other established street systems consistent with adopted
transportation plans.
      6.   New development must provide attractive, high quality streetscapes
through the use of landscaping, sidewalks/bikeways, street trees, and quality
street lighting fixtures, including design consideration for and integration
with adjacent structures.
      7.   Proposed development must, to the extent possible, provide
pedestrian, transit, and bicycle facilities, and encourage transportation
alternatives consistent with the Whitefish Growth Policy, adopted
transportation plans, and the Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan.
      8.   New development must avoid a monotonous and/or institutional
appearance through varied architecture and orientation of buildings, and where
appropriate, varying the type of residential unit within the project.
      9.   Preliminary designs for necessary public facilities, infrastructure,
and services including but not limited to water, sewer, and stormwater, must be
deemed adequate.
      10.   All new development must demonstrate substantial compliance with
and/or implementation of the growth policy, including adopted neighborhood
plans and corridor plans.
   C.   In approving a PUD, the Council may impose reasonable conditions. Such
conditions may be imposed in order to:
      1.   Mitigate or avoid adverse impacts to adjacent property,
neighborhood, and/or the community at large.
      2.   Ensure the veracity of any claim of community benefit made by the
applicant.
      3.   Support a finding that an approval criterion is met and/or ensure
the veracity of the finding.
      4.   Address any subsequent procedural matters that may need additional
attention following PUD approval by the Council.
      5.   Ensure compliance with any other City requirement or procedure not
addressed in the application or in the findings for approval.
   D.   A PUD may be denied upon a finding that it does not substantially
achieve the intent of the PUD, the approval criteria in subsection B of this
section are not met, and/or deviations from standards are neither beneficial to
the neighborhood or community at large, nor properly justified.
   E.   The City Council must approve a planned unit development by ordinance,
and such approval will incorporate by reference the PUD site plan, all
conditions, and all related documents.
   F.   Because the site planning and design issues involved with PUDs can be
complex, there is no time limit for final action by the City Council.
   G.   When appropriate, a final plat must be submitted to and approved by the
City Council and properly recorded with Flathead County. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019;
amd. Ord. 21-11, 8-16-2021; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2S-9: ENFORCEMENT AND MODIFICATION:
   A.   Any substantive modification or deviation from the site plan adopted by
the Planned Unit Development Ordinance must be by amendment to the PUD
Ordinance. Substantive modification includes, but is not necessarily limited
to, an increase in number of units and/or density, reduction in open space,
alteration of buffers, additional deviations from standards, further
encroachment into environmentally sensitive areas or buffers, major changes in
access and/or circulation, or reduction of project amenities.
   B.   Minor modifications from the PUD site plan may be approved by the
Zoning Administrator upon written notice that any proposed modifications are
inconsequential to the proposed development, that impacts associated with a
proposed project are unchanged or diminished, and that no other issues
associated with PUD approval are compromised.
   C.   Any other modification or deviation from an approved PUD site plan not
otherwise authorized under this section will constitute a violation of the
ordinance establishing the PUD overlay, and the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the area or building in violation will be subject to the penalties and remedies
imposed by this Code. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2S-10: ABANDONMENT OR EXPIRATION:
Planned unit developments may be abandoned or expire if not developed within a
reasonable time frame as described below:
   A.   A planned unit development, the approval of which is contingent upon,
or requires the approval of a subdivision plat, will terminate or expire if the
preliminary plat of the subdivision lapses or the final plat fails to be
recorded. In a phased development, those portions of the planned unit
development that did receive final plat approval will remain in effect. Those
portions of the phased development, which fail to receive final plat approval,
and/or the preliminary plat lapses, will terminate or expire. In all of the
above cases, the undeveloped project area will revert back to the underlying
zone and the City will initiate a zoning map amendment to remove the overlay.
   B.   Planned unit developments, or portions of planned unit developments
which do not require subdivision approval, will be required to proceed in
accordance with an approved time frame. The owner/applicant will be notified by
the City of any noncompliance to the adopted time frame. The owner may petition
the City Council for an amended completion schedule. The City Council may amend
the completion schedule if it finds this action to be in the best interest of
the City.
   C.   Abandonment will be deemed to occur when no improvements have been made
pursuant to the approved planned unit development plan for a period of three
(3) years, or upon expiration of the completion schedule approved or amended as
part of the planned unit development approval process. Improvements, as defined
in this section, include actual construction and do not include design work or
the activities of securing financing. Upon abandonment, the zoning of the
undeveloped project area will revert to the underlying zone and the City will
initiate a zoning map amendment to remove the overlay. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019;
amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE T. WBMV BIG MOUNTAIN VILLAGE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2T-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2T-2: Permitted Uses
11-2T-3: Conditional Uses
11-2T-4: Property Development Standards
11-2T-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The Whitefish Big Mountain village district is intended to provide a regulatory
framework for primary resort residential land uses at mixed densities, and year
round resort uses including hotels, resort condominiums and similar uses
oriented towards tourism and resort businesses. Specific uses provided for
include convention facilities, bars, lounges, restaurants, and limited resort
oriented retail and commercial uses intended primarily for the convenience of
guests of the Big Mountain Resort. The Big Mountain village is a densely
compact resort core area characterized mainly by mixed and multiple use
buildings and complexes. Retail, commercial services, and dining and drinking
establishments will generally be located at street level, with hotel/
residential uses above, and parking typically below street level. The Whitefish
Big Mountain village district is subject to compliance with the Big Mountain
neighborhood plan for general locations of density, land use, and
transportation linkages. (Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006)
11-2T-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Bars/lounges.
•   Commercial, private, semiprivate and public recreational facilities.
•   Convention centers and facilities.
•   Emergency medical clinic.
•   Health studios and spas.
•   Hotel and motels.
•   Office/professional/finance.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses or recreational facilities
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •    Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Single-family, duplex and multi-family dwellings and mixed-use
developments, including short term residential rentals, resort and recreational
condominiums, townhouses, time sharing and interval
•    Restaurants.
•    Retail sales and service.
•    Ski areas and associated support facilities.
•    Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14C of this title).
•    Theaters and performing arts venues, indoor and outdoor. (Ord. 06-30, 10-
16-2006; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2022; Ord. 22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-
2023)
11-2T-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses, parsonages,
rectories, convents and dormitories.
•   Marijuana sales (administrative CUP).
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Schools (K-12).
•   Service and maintenance shop. (Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006; amd. Ord. 21-17, 12-
6-2021; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2T-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
the designation:
Minimum designation size As depicted in the Big Mountain neighborhood plan
 
Minimum lot area         Densities for the village are prescribed in the Big
                         Mountain neighborhood plan
 
Minimum lot width        n/a
 
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                    0
Side                     0
Rear                     15 feet when abutting a Whitefish Big Mountain resort
                         residential designation otherwise 0
Streams and creeks       See section
                         11-3-29 of this title
 
Maximum height           39 feet (see definition of height for Big Mountain
                         village and resort residential)
 
Permitted lot coverage   n/a
 
Off street parking       See
                         chapter 6 of this title
 
Landscaping              See Big Mountain architectural review standards
 
(Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006; amd. Ord. 08-04, 3-3-2008, eff. 4-2-2008; Ord. 23-13,
8-21-2023)
ARTICLE U. WBMRR BIG MOUNTAIN RESORT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2U-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2U-2: Permitted Uses
11-2U-3: Conditional Uses
11-2U-4: Property Development Standards
11-2U-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The Whitefish Big Mountain resort residential district is intended to provide
for lower urban densities with little or no commercial activity. Uses within
the resort residential will include nightly rentals, timesharing, interval
ownerships, vacation clubs, or other multiple ownership residential uses.
Density is either derived from the neighborhood plan or by previous approvals.
(Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006)
11-2U-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Bed and breakfast establishments.
•   Commercial recreational facilities.
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses or recreational facilities
including parks and playgrounds.
•    Residential:
   •    Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Single family, duplex, triplex, fourplex, and multi-family dwellings
provided the proposed density complies with the Big Mountain neighborhood plan,
including short term residential rentals, resort and recreational condominiums,
townhouses, timesharing and interval ownership residences or vacation units and
other multiple ownership arrangement residential uses, allowing overnight
accommodations and ancillary services for the use of the occupants and guests.
•    Land use approvals previously granted by Flathead County, including, but
not necessarily limited to, board of adjustment determinations and preliminary
plats, which have not yet expired, shall be recognized by the city of Whitefish
and carried forward as valid approvals. Any development standards not
specifically set forth in prior approvals shall be subject to the development
standards of this zoning designation.
•    Previously approved PUDs that have not yet expired and are fully built out
within two (2) years of the adoption of this zoning designation shall be
recognized by the city of Whitefish as valid and shall not be subject to the
development standards of this zoning designation.
•    Ski areas and associated support facilities.
•    Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14C of this title). (Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2022;
Ord. 22-05, 4-4-2022; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2U-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses, parsonages,
rectories, convents and dormitories.
•   Clubs, private and semiprivate recreational facilities.
•   Emergency medical clinic.
•   Information/reception center.
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Restaurant/bar (top of Stoltze Knob).
•   Schools (K-12).
•   Service, warehouse, and maintenance shop. (Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006; amd.
Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2U-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within the designation:
Minimum designation size As depicted on the Big Mountain neighborhood plan
 
Minimum lot area         Densities for the village are prescribed in the Big
                         Mountain neighborhood plan
 
Minimum lot width        n/a
 
Minimum yard spaces:
Front                    20 feet
Side                     10 feet
Rear                     20 feet
Streams and creeks       See section
                         11-3-29 of this title
 
Townhouse lots1:
Side                     6 feet, no encroachments within 5 feet of the property
                         line
Rear                     16 feet
 
                         28 feet for one through fourplex and 35 feet for
Maximum height           multi-family (see definition of height for Big
                         Mountain village and resort residential)
 
Permitted lot coverage   40 percent
 
Off street parking       See
                         chapter 6  of this title
 
Landscaping              See Big Mountain architectural review standards
 
Note:
1.   This only applies to townhouse lots within the Sunrise Ridge phase I (Wood
Run) and Moose Run subdivisions.
(Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006; amd. Ord. 07-15, 6-4-2007; Ord. 08-04, 3-3-2008, eff.
4-2-2008; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE V. WBSD BUSINESS SERVICE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2V-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2V-2: Permitted Uses
11-2V-3: Conditional Uses
11-2V-4: Property Development Standards
11-2V-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WBSD is intended to create defined areas that are appropriate for nonretail
limited commercial services and light industrial uses. This district is
restricted to those areas identified as business service center in the growth
policy. Typical uses would be light manufacturing and component assembly,
office/warehouse showrooms, contractors, wholesale trades, and other nonretail
commercial services of a destination nature. The grouping of uses must be
incorporated in order to develop as an island rather than as a strip.
Structures would be of moderate to high architectural quality and clearly not
“industrial” in appearance. Landscaping will be extensive with good quality and
effective screening and buffering. (Ord. 08-08, 5-19-2008; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-
21-2023)
11-2V-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Agriculture/silviculture.
•   Ancillary retail or showrooms, less than fifty percent (50%) of gross floor
area of each individual lease space or tenant.
•   Building and building contractor related companies.
•   Contractor storage yards.
•   Feed stores, agricultural supply and tack stores.
•   Home occupations, subject to
chapter 3 of this title.
•   Light assembly, manufacturing, fabricating, processing, including light
food manufacturing and processing, repairing, packing or storage facilities in
enclosed buildings, provided that such uses do not create objectionable
characteristics (such as dirt, noise, glare, heat, odor, smoke) which extend
beyond lot lines, and do not involve materials that are explosive, hazardous or
toxic.
•   Livestock, subject to
chapter 3 of this title.
•   Marijuana manufacturing, cultivation, and testing.
•   Small equipment sales, rental and repair conducted indoors without outdoor
storage.
•   Music and dance studios.
•   Nurseries and landscape materials, wholesale and retail.
•   Offices: professional, governmental or business.
•   Parks and playgrounds, private.
•   Personal services with incidental retail sales.
•   Private postal services and shipping services.
•    Printing and publishing.
•    Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding repair or storage facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings, uses or recreational facilities,
including parks and playgrounds.
•   Repair shops including small engines that do not involve open storage of
boats or vehicles.
•    Residential:
   •    Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling
(see special provisions under subsection 11-3-1 of this title).
   •    Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 individuals).
   •    Single-family and duplex dwellings
   •    Multi-family dwellings and multi-family mixed-use developments.
•   Sales stands for the sale of farm or ranch products produced on the
premises or items similar to those products.
•   Stables and riding academies.
•   Veterinary hospital.
•   Wholesale and warehousing, including offices and showrooms. (Ord. 08-08, 5-
19-2008; amd. Ord. 21-17, 12-6-2021; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2V-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•    Accessory housing in conjunction with a business.
•    Ancillary retail or showrooms, more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross
floor area.
•    Auditorium, convention facilities or other places of assembly.
•    Churches and/or similar places of worship.
•    Colleges, business or trade schools.
•    Daycare centers (16 or more individuals).
•    Kennels and animal training centers.
•   Marijuana sales (administrative CUP).
•    Ministorage facilities.
•    Research laboratories and institutions. (Ord. 08-08, 5-19-2008; amd. Ord.
21-17, 12-6-2021; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022)
11-2V-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
this district:
Minimum district size  5 acres
                       
Minimum lot area       1 acre
                       
Minimum lot width      125 feet
                       
Minimum yard spaces:    
Front                  30 feet
                       10 feet
Side                   30 feet if adjacent to a residential or agricultural use
                       or zone
                       15 feet
Rear                   30 feet if adjacent to a residential or agricultural use
                       or zone
                       
Maximum height         35 feet
                       
Permitted lot coverage 40 percent
                       
Off-street parking     See chapter 6 of this title
                       
Accessory uses         Accessory uses must maintain the same yard requirements
                       as the primary uses
                       
 
   A.   Bulk And Scale:
      1.   When not shown on the initial site plan required for zoning or
rezoning properties, all new structures with a gross floor area of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet or greater, existing structures where an addition causes
the total floor area to be ten thousand (10,000) square feet or greater, and
additions to structures where the total floor area already is ten thousand
(10,000) square feet or greater, with the exception of multi-family and mixed-
use with multi-family, are subject to a conditional use permit pursuant to
section
11-7-8  of this title.
      2.   One commercial use permitted per gross acre. Multiple commercial
uses should cluster development to include both shared parking areas and
internal road access. Buildings must be grouped into localized areas and must
not be developed in a linear fashion.
   B.   Site Plan Requirements:
      1.   A site plan, vicinity map and building concepts must accompany a
request to rezone the property or otherwise grade or develop a lot for a
permitted use prior to the issuance of a building permit or zoning compliance
permit. Prior to any site development, a detailed site plan must be submitted
to the zoning administrator to demonstrate compliance with the approved
development plan, and a building permit or zoning compliance permit must be
obtained.
Site plans must include all buildings, structures, parking, driveways,
sidewalks, utilities, drainage, hydrants, landscaping and signage. The vicinity
map must include surrounding parcels, buildings, structures, circulation
systems and major physical features. The site plan must demonstrate conformance
with the zoning regulations and other applicable city regulations. All projects
constructed in accordance with an approved site plan must be permanently
maintained as approved. Any desired subsequent changes must be submitted for
approval as an amendment to the site plan. Prior to occupancy, the site must be
inspected for compliance with the site plan. All improvements must be installed
and functioning before occupancy will be allowed.
      2.   Shared driveway access or frontage roads (whether public or private)
are required where possible to provide a cohesive internal circulation pattern
and to limit access onto arterials and collectors when development contains
multiple commercial uses.
      3.   Minor deviations to the site plan must be allowed which do not
involve more than ten percent (10%) of the building site for a single building.
This would include, but is not limited to, the location and/or expansion of the
building, parking lot location, signage, number of parking spaces and
landscaping. Minor deviations to the site plan must be reviewed and approved by
the zoning administrator. Substantial modifications to the site plan will be
required to be reviewed and approved by the city council. Substantial changes
would include, but not be limited to, an increase in the number of buildings,
major changes in access or circulation, an increase in building size by more
than ten percent (10%), major changes to signage and major changes to
landscaping design and location.
   C.   Clustering:
      1.   Clustering of uses includes incorporation of common shared areas
such as courtyards to create central nodes of business/development as opposed
to linear development.
      2.   Clustering should include shared access, parking, landscaping, with
the overall development designed to protect surrounding properties from adverse
impacts.
      3.   For the purpose of clustering, the site will be developed as one
lot. Property setbacks for commercial uses do not apply except for separation
from residential uses. This allows for cohesive development on multiple
properties developed in conjunction with an overall development theme or
business park plan.
   D.   Landscaping 1 :
      1.   Landscape design must be in accordance with the concept of a
business park. A combination of landscape materials should be arranged in a
harmonious manner as an integral part of the project design to enhance building
design, public view and interior spaces and provide buffers and transitions, as
appropriate.
      2.   Parking lot landscaping must comply with the requirements of chapter
6 of this title.
      3.   Exposed utilities, storage areas, machinery, installations, service
and loading areas and similar accessory areas and structures must be set back
to the primary structure requirements or screened to minimize the loss of
views, privacy and the general aesthetic value of surroundings.
   E.   Signage: An overall sign plan for the district must be provided that
incorporates the architectural theme and landscape design as an integrated
concept and must be in accordance with the concept of a business park. A
combination of natural materials and colors should be arranged in a harmonious
manner that complements the overall design of the site and does not create
visual clutter, distractions for passing motorists or the obstruction of
important architectural or landscaping features. (Ord. 08-08, 5-19-2008; amd.
Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See
  chapter 4 of this title.
ARTICLE W. WT-3 NEIGHBORHOOD MIXED USE TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2W-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2W-2: Permitted Uses
11-2W-3: Conditional Uses
11-2W-4: Property Development Standards
11-2W-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WT-3 District is intended for transitional development including high
density residential, professional offices, light manufacturing, light assembly
and ancillary services to provide a performance based mixed use environment
with a recreational amenity, a community gateway, and adaptive use areas which
are transitioning from their traditional uses and lots that primarily border
either the Whitefish River or Industrial zoned property. The boundary of this
district is along the north side of Highway 93 from both sides of North Karrow
Avenue to the Whitefish River. This zoning classification is not intended for
general application throughout the Whitefish area. (Ord. 16-06, 3-7-2016)
11-2W-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Open space for active or passive, public or private, outdoor space,
including such uses as parks, plazas, greens, playgrounds, community gardens.
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings and uses.
•   Residential:
   •   Accessory dwelling units (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-1) of this title).
   •   Daycare (registered home, 5 to 15 children).
   •   Single-family through fourplex dwelling units.
•   Sublots (see special provisions in subsection
11-3-14C of this title). (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022;
Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2W-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•   Caretaker's unit.
•   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish houses, parsonages,
rectories, convents and dormitories.
•   Clubs, private and semiprivate recreational facilities.
•   Daycare centers (more than 15 individuals).
•   Hotels and motels and associated uses customarily accessory thereto are
permitted within a portion of the Whitefish River frontage area, said frontage
area being a strip of land three hundred feet (300') wide and lying
southwesterly of, and contiguous to, the requisite buffer and setback areas of
the Whitefish River north of 1st Street. The width of this area may be modified
by the Zoning Administrator if geotechnical analysis reveals the presence of
unstable fill material along the bank of the Whitefish River.
•   Manufacturing, artisan (see special provisions in section
11-3-39 of this title).
•   Personal services (street level only).
•   Professional artist studio and gallery (see special provisions in section
11-3-15 of this title).
•   Professional offices (street level only).
•   Public golf courses.
•   Residential:
   •   Boarding houses.
   •   Dwelling groups or clusters.
   •    Guesthouses.
   •    Multi-family dwellings, five (5) to eight (8) dwelling units -
administrative conditional use permit (subsection
11-7-8M of this title) (see special provisions in section
11-3-42 or
11-3-43 of this title).
   •    Multi-family dwellings, nine (9) or more dwelling units (see special
provisions in section
11-3-42 or
11-3-43 of this title). (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord.
23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2W-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
                                     All new structures with a building
                                     footprint of 3,500 square feet or
                                     greater, existing structures where an
                                     addition causes the total footprint to
Bulk and scale                       be 3,500 square feet or greater, and
                                     additions to structures where the
                                     footprint is already 3,500 square feet
                                     or greater, are subject to a conditional
                                     use permit pursuant to section
                                     11-7-8 of this title
Minimum district size                n/a
Minimum lot area:                     
 Single-family and duplex dwellings 6,000 square feet
 Multi-family dwellings/unit        3,000 square feet
 Attached one-family dwelling on a  2,400 square feet
  sublot
Minimum lot width                    50 feet
Minimum yard spaces:                  
 Front                              25 feet
 Side                               10 feet for single-story, 15 feet for
                                     two- story
 Rear                               20 feet
                                     35 feet. The maximum building height may
Maximum height                       be increased up to 42 feet for mixed use
                                     buildings or when the majority of the
                                     roof pitch is 7/12 or steeper
Permitted lot coverage               50 percent maximum
Off street parking                   See
                                     chapter 6 of this title
                                     A. Shared parking is allowed among
                                     different categories of uses or among
                                     uses with different hours of operation,
                                     but not both
                                     B. If a nonresidential and a residential
                                     use share off street parking, the
                                     parking requirement for the residential
                                     use may be reduced by 50 percent
                                     C. Applicants must provide a shared
                                     parking agreement executed by the
                                     parties establishing the shared parking
                                     spaces. Shared parking privileges will
                                     continue in effect only as long as the
                                     agreement, binding on all parties,
                                     remains in force. If the agreement is no
                                     longer in force, then parking must be
                                     provided as otherwise required by
                                     chapter 6 of this title
                                     D. Shared or leased parking may be
                                     located within 300 feet of the site
                                     E. Required accessible parking spaces
                                     (for persons with disabilities) may not
                                     be shared and must be located on site
                                     7:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M. for
Hours of operation                   nonresidential uses if within 100 feet
                                     of a residential use
                                     Accessory buildings conforming to the
                                     definition in section
                                     11-9-2 of this title are allowed subject
                                     to the standards set forth in section
                                     11-3-2 of this title. Accessory
                                     buildings with footprints not exceeding
                                     600 square feet must be set back a
Accessory buildings                  minimum of 6 feet from side and rear
                                     property lines that do not border a
                                     street, lake, any intermittent or
                                     perennial stream, or the front 1/2 of
                                     any adjoining lot. Setbacks for
                                     accessory buildings with footprints
                                     exceeding 600 square feet must be the
                                     same as those for the principal
                                     structure
                                     See
Landscaping                          chapter 4  of this title (single-family
                                     and duplex uses exempted)
 
(Ord. 16-06, 3-7-2016; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE X. WI-T INDUSTRIAL TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2X-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2X-2: Permitted Uses
11-2X-3: Conditional Uses
11-2X-4: Property Development Standards
11-2X-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WI-T district is intended to allow for the gradual transition on vacant or
underutilized sites that were traditionally used for heavy manufacturing to
adaptive, clean industries and business incubators. These sites are generally
proximate to the downtown, have existing high capacity utility services and
existing multimodal transportation opportunities such as rail and highway
access. The applicable boundary of this district is along the north side of
West 1st Street east of Murray Avenue to the BNSF railway corridor and where a
buffer of mixed use zoning shall separate it from the Whitefish River. This
zoning classification is not intended for general application throughout the
Whitefish area. (Ord. 16-06, 3-7-2016)
11-2X-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Building supply outlets.
•   Janitorial services.
•   Light industrial manufacturing, fabricating, processing, repairing, packing
or storing facilities.
•   Live/work units (see special provisions in section
11-3-41 of this title).
•   Marijuana manufacturing, cultivation, and testing.
•   Open space for active or passive, public or private, outdoor space,
including such uses as parks, plazas, greens, playgrounds, community gardens.
•   Parcel delivery services.
•   Professional offices.
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings.
•   Warehousing. (Ord. 16-06, 3-7-2016; amd. Ord. 21-17, 12-6-2021; Ord. 23-13,
8-21-2023)
11-2X-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Any use allowed as a permitted use under the WI district not listed above
under permitted uses.
•   Bed and breakfast establishments (see special provisions in section
11-3-4 of this title).
•   Business incubator. The following uses are permitted within a business
incubator facility, not to exceed three thousand six hundred (3,600) square
feet of floor area per use:
•   Advanced materials.
•   Arts.
•   Biosciences/life sciences.
•   Computer hardware and software.
•   Construction.
•   E-business and e-commerce.
•   Electronics/microelectronics.
•   Energy.
•   Environment/clean technologies.
•   Healthcare.
•   Internet.
•   Kitchen/food.
•   Manufacturing.
•   Marijuana sales.
•   Media.
•   Medical devices.
•   Nanotechnology.
•   Services/professional.
•   Telecommunications.
•   Tourism.
•   Wireless technology.
•   Wood/forestry.
•   Coffee shops and sandwich shops (no "formula" businesses), with no more
than two thousand (2,000) square feet of gross floor area.
•   Colleges, business and trade schools.
•   Contractors' yards.
•   Grocery stores (less than 5,000 square feet of enclosed gross floor area
per lot of record).
•   Heavy equipment sales, rental and service.
•   Manufacturing, artisan (see special provisions in section
11-3-39 of this title).
•   Microbreweries and microdistilleries.
•   Nursing and retirements homes, personal care facilities, community
residential facilities, types I and II.
•   Petroleum products, wholesale.
•   Research facilities.
•   Wireless service facilities. (Ord. 16-06, 3-7-2016; amd. Ord. 21-17, 12-6-
2021)
11-2X-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards shall apply to land and buildings
within this district:
                              All new structures with a building footprint of
                              15,000 square feet or greater, existing
                              structures where an addition causes the total
                              footprint to be 15,000 square feet or greater,
Bulk and scale                and additions to structures where the footprint
                              is already 15,000 square feet or greater, are
                              subject to a conditional use permit pursuant to
                              section
                              11-7-8 of this title
Minimum district size         5 acres
Minimum lot area              n/a
Minimum lot width             50 feet
Minimum yard spaces:           
 Front                       25 feet
 Side                        10 feet. 20 feet if adjacent to a residential
                              zone or park
 Rear                        20 feet
Maximum height                35 feet
Permitted lot coverage        70 percent
Off street parking            See
                              chapter 6 of this title
                              No outdoor processes can be employed in the
                              operation of businesses. Waste and recycle
Outdoor storage and processes receptacles must be maintained within an enclosed
                              structure. Limited outdoor storage areas are
                              allowed, subject to the following criteria:
                              A. Outdoor storage areas must not be located in
                              the front yard setback
                              B. Outdoor storage areas must be screened with a
                              sight obscuring fence at least 6 feet in height
                              but not to exceed 8 feet in height. Fencing must
                              be located behind the required perimeter
                              landscaping
                              C. Equipment, vehicles, materials, containers,
                              and other items located within outdoor storage
                              areas must be maintained in an orderly fashion
                              D. Outdoor storage areas must not be used to
                              store waste or recycle materials
                              A. The site plan, vicinity map and building
                              elevations must be submitted to and approved by
                              the zoning administrator to erect new buildings
                              or structures, make additions exceeding 10
                              percent of the floor area or existing buildings
                              or structures, or otherwise grade or develop a
                              lot for a permitted use prior to the issuance of
                              a building permit. A comprehensive site plan is
                              required for multiple-tenant projects. Site plans
                              must include all buildings, structures, parking,
                              driveways, sidewalks, utilities, drainage,
                              hydrants, open space, landscaping and signage.
Site plan requirements        The vicinity map must include surrounding
                              parcels, buildings, structures, circulation
                              systems and major physical features. The site
                              plan must demonstrate conformance with the zoning
                              regulations and other applicable city
                              regulations. All projects constructed in
                              accordance with an approved site plan must be
                              permanently maintained as approved. Any desired
                              subsequent changes shall be submitted for
                              approval as an amendment to the site plan. Prior
                              to occupancy, the site must be inspected for
                              compliance with the site plan. All improvements
                              must be installed and functioning before
                              occupancy will be allowed
                              B. Minor deviations to the site plan shall be
                              allowed which do not involve more than 20 percent
                              of the building site for a single building. This
                              would include, but is not limited to, the
                              location and/or expansion of the building,
                              parking lot location, signage, number of parking
                              spaces, and landscaping. Minor deviations to the
                              site plan must be reviewed and approved by the
                              zoning administrator
                              C. Substantial modifications to the site plan
                              will be required to be reviewed and approved by
                              the city council. Substantial changes would
                              include, but not be limited to, an increase in
                              the number of buildings, major changes in access
                              or circulation, an increase in building size by
                              more than 20 percent, and major changes to
                              landscaping design and location
Accessory buildings           Accessory buildings must maintain the same yard
                              requirements as the primary use
                              See
Landscaping                   chapter 4 of this title. Subsection
                              11-4-5E of this title applies
 
(Ord. 16-06, 3-7-2016; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
ARTICLE Y. WB-T BUSINESS TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-2Y-1: Intent And Purpose
11-2Y-2: Permitted Uses
11-2Y-3: Conditional Uses
11-2Y-4: Property Development Standards
11-2Y-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The WB-T District is intended for transitional highway frontage areas between
existing county Business Service areas and the city’s Secondary Business
District. While the majority of development would be tightly controlled by the
conditional use permit process, the district is appropriate for light
commercial and ancillary services fronting the highway with single-family to
high density residential uses typically located behind to provide a performance
based mixed-use environment in a highway community gateway setting. Due to high
vehicle speeds and limited access points, high traffic uses are discouraged,
and frontage or backage roads will be developed to consolidate highway
accesses. This zoning classification is intended for areas annexing into the
city with current county B-4 zoning, and not intended for general application
throughout the Whitefish area, nor is it to be extended south of Emerald Drive/
Russell Road on Highway 93 South. (Ord. 23-01, 2-21-2023)
11-2Y-2: PERMITTED USES:
•   Accessory dwelling units when accessory to a single-family dwelling (see
special provisions in subsection
11-3-1  of this title).
•   Daycares and daycare centers.
•   Home occupations (see special provisions in section
11-3-13 of this title).
•   Public utility buildings and facilities when necessary for serving the
surrounding territory, excluding business offices and repair or storage
facilities.
•   Publicly owned or operated buildings and uses.
•   Residential:
   •   Single-family through multi-family dwellings, including mixed-use
development. (Ord. 23-01, 2-21-2023; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-2Y-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
•   Churches.
•   Hospitals, nursing, retirement homes, or personal care facilities.
•   Kennels and animal training centers.
•   Light assembly, manufacturing, fabricating, processing, including light
food manufacturing and processing, repairing, packing, and related storage
facilities in enclosed buildings, provided that such uses do not create
objectionable characteristics (such as dirt, noise, glare, heat, odor, smoke)
which extend beyond lot lines, and do not involve materials that are explosive,
hazardous or toxic.
•   Marijuana facilities.
•   Medical clinics and associated therapeutic health services.
•   Micro-breweries or micro-distilleries.
•   Nurseries and landscape materials.
•   Professional offices.
•   Recreational facilities, private and commercial.
•   Recreational guides and outfitters.
•   Research laboratories and institutions.
•   RV parks and campgrounds.
•   Residential:
   •   Boarding houses.
   •   Caretaker units.
•   Restaurants (non-formula).
•   Veterinary offices and hospitals. (Ord. 23-01, 2-21-2023; amd. Ord. 23-13,
8-21-2023)
11-2Y-4: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following property development standards apply to land and buildings within
this district:
              All new structures with a building footprint of 7,500 square feet or greater,
              existing structures where an addition causes the total footprint to be 7,500
Bulk and      square feet or greater, and additions to structures where the footprint is
scale         already 7,500 square feet or greater, with the exception of multi-family and
              mixed-use with multi-family, are subject to a conditional use permit pursuant to
              section
              11-7-8  of this title.
             Maximum building footprint is 15,000 square feet.
Minimum       n/a
district size
Minimum lot   n/a
area
Minimum lot   50 feet
width
Minimum yard
spaces:
   Front   30 feet, 50 feet landscaped buffer when abutting Highway 93 and Highway 40.
              10 feet, 30 feet landscaped buffer when abutting residential or agricultural
   Side    zoned properties, 50 feet landscaped buffer when abutting Highway 93 and Highway
              40.
   Rear    20 feet, 30 feet landscaped buffer when abutting residential or agricultural
              zoned properties.
Maximum       35 feet
height
Permitted lot n/a
coverage
Off street    See chapter 6 of this title.
parking
Landscaping   See chapter 4 of this title (single-family and duplex uses exempted).
General       1.   Shared driveway access or frontage roads (whether public or private) are
requirements: required to provide a cohesive internal circulation pattern and to consolidate
              access onto arterials and collectors.
              2.   Where access can be achieved via an adjacent or internal street or
             easement, the lot must take its access from that location instead of direct
              access onto the highway.
              3.   Where no adjacent street network is available, site design of individual
             lots must provide for shared access with neighboring parcels and easements must
              be provided for future road locations.
              4.   Site design should incorporate shared parking and landscaped buffers to
             protect surrounding properties from adverse impacts to the greatest extent
              possible.
              5.   Exposed utilities, storage areas, machinery, service and loading areas and
              similar accessory areas and structures must be set back to the primary structure
             requirements and fully screened with fencing and/or landscaping to minimize the
              loss of views, privacy and the general aesthetic value of surroundings. (Ord.
              23-01, 2-21-2023; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
 
CHAPTER 3
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU)
11-3-2: Accessory Buildings
11-3-3: Architectural Standards
11-3-4: Bed And Breakfast Establishments
11-3-5: Building Height
11-3-6: Caretaker's Unit
11-3-7: Casinos
11-3-8: Clear Vision Triangle
11-3-9: Daycare Centers
11-3-10: Dwelling Groups
11-3-11: Fences And Retaining Walls
11-3-12: Guesthouses
11-3-13: Home Occupations
11-3-14: Lots
11-3-15: Professional Artist's Studio/Gallery
11-3-16: Professional Offices
11-3-17: Retreat Center
11-3-18: Service Stations
11-3-19: Shipping Containers
11-3-20: Swimming Pools
11-3-21: Temporary Uses
11-3-22: Uses Regarding Animals
11-3-23: Mobile Food Vendors
11-3-24: Wireless Service Facilities
11-3-25: Outdoor Lighting Standards
11-3-26: Optional Zoning Compliance Permit (Rep. by Ord. 11-04, 4-18-2011)
11-3-27: Lakeshore Protection Zone Delineation And Setback
11-3-28: Community Decay
11-3-29: Water Quality Protection
11-3-30: Personal Services
11-3-31: Music And Dance Schools And Studios
11-3-32: Recreational Vehicle Storage
11-3-33: Erosion And Sediment Control
11-3-34: Marijuana Facilities
11-3-35: Short-Term Rental Standards
11-3-36: Manufactured Home Park Standards
11-3-37: Recreational Vehicle Park And Campground Standards
11-3-38: Airports, Landing Strips, Heliports, And Helipads
11-3-39: Artisan Manufacturing
11-3-40: Microbreweries And Microdistilleries
11-3-41: Live/Work Units
11-3-42: Multi-Family Development Standards
11-3-43: Mixed-Use And Non-Residential Building Development Standards
11-3-1: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADU):
   A.   Purpose: Create an affordable housing option for the Whitefish
workforce and Whitefish residents that responds to downsize trends, smaller
households, and provides a supplemental income stream for owners of residential
property. ADUs support an efficient use of existing housing stock and public
infrastructure, provide an environmentally friendly, more sustainable housing
choice with less average space per person.
   B.   An accessory dwelling unit may be detached from or attached to a
primary single-family dwelling or attached to a garage located on the same lot
as the primary single family dwelling. The interior habitable floor area of the
accessory unit must not exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet or seventy five
percent (75%) of the gross floor area of the primary structure, whichever is
less.
   C.   Only one ADU or guesthouse per lot is permitted. ADUs must remain
accessory to the primary single-family home and may not be separately sold or
transferred to another owner.
   D.   Any part of a structure non-conforming with respect to setbacks and/or
height may be used for an ADU provided the degree of non-conformity is not
increased.
   E.   No off street parking spaces beyond what is required for the primary
dwelling are required for the accessory dwelling unit.
(Ord. 04-03, 3-1-2004; amd. Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-22, 10-16-2023)
11-3-2: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Accessory buildings meeting the definition in section
11-9-2 of this title are allowed in all zoning districts. Accessory buildings
less than two hundred (200) square feet in floor area and not intended for
human occupancy do not require building permits.
   B.   Accessory buildings in Residential Zoning Districts are subject to the
setbacks and lot coverage standards listed in each district, and no accessory
building in a residential district, with the exception of a detached accessory
dwelling unit may exceed twenty four feet (24') in height. Any accessory
structure in a residential district with a building footprint exceeding six
hundred (600) square feet must meet the setbacks for a primary structure. All
standards in this subsection apply to resort residential zoning districts as
well.
   C.   Regardless of setbacks, it is the responsibility of the property owner
to prevent roof drainage, including snow, from falling or flowing onto adjacent
property.
   D.   Accessory buildings in nonresidential districts are subject to the same
setbacks as a primary structure.
   E.   No accessory structure in a residential or resort residential district,
with the exception of an accessory dwelling unit, may be set forward of the
foundation line of any principal structure on the same lot or parcel regardless
of the actual setback dimension of the principal structure. The zoning
administrator may waive this provision for just cause due to lot configuration,
topography, environmentally sensitive areas, tree preservation, or similar
physical factors on the subject property.
(Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; amd. Ord. 16-03, 2-1-2016; Ord. 23-22, 10-16-2023)
11-3-3: ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The architectural design standards are based on a commitment
to preserving the city's historic character and heritage through high quality
design of new and significantly modified buildings. The purpose of this section
is to inform property owners about the adopted design policies. Understanding
these policies will help owners in making decisions about their buildings by
focusing on the principles of urban design which promote an environment scaled
to pedestrians, while maintaining cohesive neighborhood identity and respecting
the unique qualities of Whitefish.
   B.   Scope: The architectural standards apply to construction of all new
buildings, including residences constructed in a commercial district, except
detached single-family and duplexes within the city’s zoning jurisdiction. In
addition, with regard to all applicable buildings, any additions or exterior
modifications or alterations will invoke compliance with the standards for
altered components. The zoning administrator or designee may waive this
requirement if it is determined that the modification is insignificant and
inconsequential to the purpose and intent of the architectural standards.
Finally, any resumption of use after abandonment will require compliance with
the standards.
   In cases where the city council has reviewed building design through the
conditional use permit or planned unit development process, the city council is
not the final architectural review approval, but an approval of the conceptual
plans. Final architectural review is required prior to submitting a building
permit application.
   In any development containing more than one multi-family and/or townhouse
structure, the architectural review committee must review building plans for
such structures to assure that there is visual variety and distinctiveness of
exterior appearance among multi-family structures in the same development. The
objective of this provision is to avoid visual monotony among multi-family
structures while encouraging a common, high quality design theme. If two (2) or
more developments containing more than one triplex, four-plex, multi-family
and/or townhouse structure occur in close proximity to one another, building
plans will be reviewed for such structures to assure they are all substantially
varied in exterior appearance from other residential structures in a
neighboring development.
   C.   Applicability: The architectural design standards supplement the city's
zoning regulations as a stand alone document. The city adopted the
architectural design standards by ordinance as zoning regulations and have the
same force and effect as all of the city's zoning regulations. A violation of
the architectural design standards may be enforced pursuant to
chapter 7 of this title. The standards contain both broader objectives and more
specific architectural and lighting guidelines than the zoning regulations.
This section creates the mechanism for adopting the architectural standards
within the zoning jurisdiction.
Although the standards are more than merely advisory, they also allow room for
consideration of design proposals not found within the standards. Each project
is different. Therefore, some standards might be emphasized while others are
deemphasized, but no standard will be overlooked.
The objective of the standards is to encourage quality building and development
to enhance both the natural and built environments in Whitefish.
   D.   Architectural Review Committee: Provisions relating to the
architectural review committee are provided for in
title 2, chapter 10 of this code.
   E.   Contents Of Standards: See the architectural review standards document
for the application procedures and appeals provisions.
      1.   The standards cover the following topics:
         a.   Site planning.
         b.   Landscaping.
         c.   Parking.
         d.   Lighting design.
         e.   Required architectural building design elements.
      2.   The standards break the city up into four (4) different zones with
specific standards for each. The design standard zones are:
         a.   Resort community business district (Wisconsin Avenue and Highway
93 North).
         b.   Highway district (Highway 93 South and areas zoned industrial).
         c.   Old Town district: central, south, railway.
         d.   Residential district (except single family detached and duplex).
(Ord. 09-13, 8-17-2009; Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015; Ord. 23-14, 8-21-2023)
11-3-4: BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   The operation of a bed and breakfast shall be limited to single-family
houses. Preference is given to houses on, or eligible to be placed on, the
national register of historic places.
   B.   Preference is given to bed and breakfast uses on collector and arterial
streets.
   C.   The residential structure shall not be significantly modified to
provide additional sleeping rooms or exhibit a nonresidential appearance.
   D.   Signage shall be architecturally compatible to the residence and shall
not flash, rotate or blink.
   E.   A family or manager must be in permanent residence and maintain full
use of the kitchen and at least one bedroom.
   F.   Sleeping quarters and breakfast facilities shall not be allowed in an
accessory building.
   G.   Overnight lodgers shall not have direct access to cooking facilities
although the permanent residents of the dwelling may provide breakfast service
to the guests.
   H.   Use of the residential structure shall be limited to the exclusive use
of the resident dwellers and their overnight guests. No other use such as a
restaurant, bar, or other use which attracts nonboarding customers is
permitted. No alcoholic beverages will be sold on the premises. (Ord. A-407, 3-
15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
11-3-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Buildings higher than thirty five feet (35') shall adhere to the following 1 :
   A.   Provide suitable ladder access to all occupiable areas and the roof, as
approved by the fire marshal. The building shall be constructed of
noncombustible materials, except for interior improvements. Install sprinklers
to comply with NFPA13 standards, regardless of building square footage.
   B.   No portion of a building above thirty five feet (35') in height, or two
(2) stories, whichever is less, shall be closer than twenty (20) horizontal
feet from the street right of way, in order to mitigate the aesthetic impact of
additional height from the street. (See diagram in section
11-8-1, appendix D of this title.)
   C.   The maximum diagonal horizontal dimension of any portion of a building
in excess of thirty five feet (35') in height shall be one hundred twenty feet
(120') measured to the outside of the building face, in order to limit
excessive massiveness in taller buildings. A minimum separation of thirty feet
(30') shall be maintained between those portions of structures exceeding thirty
five feet (35') in height, except for uninhabited architectural extensions.
(See diagram in section
11-8-1, appendix D of this title.) (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-
21-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See diagram in section
  11-8-1, appendix D of this title.
11-3-6: CARETAKER'S UNIT:
A caretaker's unit is a residential structure or portion of a structure
intended for permanent occupancy by a manager, watchperson, family, property
owner or employee for the purpose of security, oversight, convenience or
caretaking of the use or activity being conducted. A caretaker's unit must
comply with all of the following criteria:
   A.   The caretaker's unit be secondary or accessory in nature to the primary
commercial use of the property.
   B.   The caretaker's unit be placed on the same lot as the commercial
property or tied to it by deed restriction should the commercial property be on
an adjacent lot.
   C.   The caretaker's unit shall not be sold off separately or severed from
the commercial use of the property.
   D.   The caretaker's unit shall provide two (2) off street parking spaces
and comply with the access, paving and parking requirements of the zone.
   E.   The caretaker's unit shall abide by all setback and height requirements
of the zone.
   F.   Only one caretaker's unit per lot or commercial use. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-
1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
11-3-7: CASINOS:
   A.   The city council may amend the zoning jurisdiction regulations and
create within the WB-2 district a specific geographic area defined as casino
overlay zone.
   B.   A new casino may only be located within a WB-2 district in a location
specifically designated casino overlay zone on the official zoning jurisdiction
map.
   C.   Those casinos that exist outside of a designated casino overlay zone
shall be considered nonconforming and shall be regulated according to section
11-7-11 of this title. The addition of any gambling machines or gambling
devices or increase in number of gambling machines or gambling devices shall be
considered an expansion of use under subsection
11-7-11D of this title. (Ord. 00-06, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
   D.   A nonprofit entity which holds appropriate state alcoholic beverage and
gambling licenses and which is a legal nonconforming use not located within the
casino overlay, as described in this section, may operate up to four (4)
gambling machines subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No signs or advertising of any type can be used to publicize the
existence of gambling machines, gambling opportunities, or a casino; and
      2.   Use of gambling machines must be primarily by members of the
nonprofit entity. (Ord. 06-06, 4-3-2006)
11-3-8: CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE:
A "clear vision triangle", as defined in section
11-9-2 of this title, shall be maintained on the corners of all public and
private property within the intersection of roadways or of a roadway and
railroad. The clear vision area shall contain no trees, shrubs or other
plantings, nor any fences, walls, signs or other temporary or permanent sight
obstructions of any nature exceeding thirty inches (30") in height above the
existing centerline elevation of the adjacent roadway, except that trees
exceeding thirty inches (30") in height may be permitted if all branches and
foliage be removed to a height of nine feet (9') above the existing centerline
of the adjacent roadway. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
11-3-9: DAYCARE CENTERS:
Daycare centers providing for sixteen (16) or more individuals shall:
   A.   Provide a suitable drop off and pick up facility. This shall be based
on the maximum number of individuals cared for at a single time. There shall be
twenty feet (20') of signed loading area for each eight (8) individuals.
   B.   Where outside play facilities are provided, there shall be maintained a
six foot (6') sight obscuring fence around the play yard and the play yard
should be situated on the rear one-half (½) of the site.
   C.   In all residential zones (WCR through WR-4) and resort zones (WRR-
1 through WRB-2):
      1.   Existing residential structures shall not be significantly modified
so as to exhibit a nonresidential appearance.
      2.   Signage shall be architecturally compatible to the primary building
and shall not flash, rotate or blink.
      3.   Preference is given to daycare facilities located on collector or
arterial streets. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; Ord. 22-
04, 3-21-2022)
11-3-10: DWELLING GROUPS:
When authorized as a use in the zoning district in which it is proposed to be
located, a dwelling group may be developed subject to the issuance of a
conditional use permit in accordance with the provisions of section
11-7-8 of this title and subject also to compliance with all of the following
site requirement conditions:
   A.   The number of dwelling units permitted on the site shall be based upon
the density limits of the zoning district.
   B.   The yard, height, lot coverage and area requirements of the district
shall apply to the entire site.
   C.   No two (2) buildings containing dwelling units shall be closer together
than twice the minimum side yard for the district.
   D.   A permanent open court shall be required adjoining the entire length of
every building containing a dwelling unit. The court shall have a depth equal
to the minimum front yard required in the district. In no case shall the
minimum rear yard of the site be used to furnish the required court area.
   E.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with the parking and
loading provisions of this title 1 . Where necessary to avoid congestion on
abutting streets in a single-family district, the city council may require
additional spaces for visitor parking.
   F.   A permanent ten foot (10') landscaped strip shall be maintained along
the side and rear lot lines of the entire development. Such strips shall not be
used as drives or for parking.
   G.   The location, size, nature and topography of the open space areas shall
be suitable for use as common areas for park, recreational purposes and buffer
areas between groups of homesites. Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
open space areas resulting from the clustering of dwellings shall have a slope
in excess of twenty percent (20%).
   H.   Adequate provision shall be made for the perpetual maintenance of all
open space areas by the inclusion of covenants running with the land in the
deeds or other instruments of conveyance which delineate such open areas. (Ord.
A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See
  chapter 6 of this title.
11-3-11: FENCES AND RETAINING WALLS:
   A.   Fences: The following fence regulations shall apply to all districts
except the WA zone:
      1.   No fence, hedge or freestanding wall (not supporting a building or
structure) anywhere within or bounding the front yard shall exceed forty eight
inches (48").
      2.   An ornamental entry may exceed the maximum height in subsection A1
of this section, when constructed at the entrance to a new subdivision, planned
unit development or multi-family development. No such entry shall exceed more
than thirty percent (30%) of the width of the parcel at the front lot line,
interfere with any clear vision zones or exceed eighteen feet (18') in height.
      3.   No fence or freestanding wall within or bounding a rear or side yard
from the point of the front setback line shall exceed a height of six and one-
half feet (61/2').
      4.   Open wire fences exceeding the above height may be built around
schools or other public or quasi-public institutions when necessary for the
safety or restraint of the occupants thereof.
      5.   Open wire fences exceeding the above height may be built around
tennis courts and swimming pools at the discretion of the zoning administrator
after giving consideration to location of planned courts or pool safety, and
effects on the neighborhood.
      6.   Security fences are allowed in side and rear yards up to eight feet
(8') in height when used to enclose commercial or industrial storage yards.
      7.   Barbed wire fences are allowed only in the WA, WCR and WSR zones.
Furthermore, they may be allowed along the boundary of any district which
directly abuts the side or rear of a WA, WCR or WSR Zone.
      8.   In the WCR through WR-1 Zones, usable pasture and the enclosing
fence shall not be allowed in the front yard setback or closer than two feet
(2') from a property line or ten feet (10') from a residential dwelling. (Ord.
A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
   B.   Retaining Walls: Retaining walls help facilitate development of lots
with steep terrain by leveling certain areas or inhibiting sloughing. Retaining
walls can help reduce the steepness of slopes enabling the development of a
lot. The purpose of these retaining wall standards is to ensure the natural
topography is maintained to the greatest extent possible, that exceedingly tall
walls are not constructed, that landscaping is implemented to mitigate the
effects of terracing and that the scale and texture of the retaining wall
complements the character of the neighborhood.
      1.   All retaining walls require a building permit unless clearly a wall
installed for landscaping purposes.
      2.   Retaining walls must not exceed four feet (4') measured from
adjacent finish grade on the downhill side. Where greater heights must occur,
the project must use a series of terraced or stepped walls. The width of a
retaining terrace must be no less than three feet (3') and must incorporate
landscaping.
         a.   Retaining walls two feet (2') and under measured from the
adjacent finish downhill grade have no setback requirement. Retaining walls
above two feet (2') and up to four feet (4') in height measured from adjacent
finish downhill grade must have a setback of at least six feet (6') from the
property line. Retaining walls exceeding four feet (4') in height measured from
adjacent finish downhill grade must meet required principal building setbacks
for the zoning district.
         b.   Retaining walls necessary to accommodate minimum required off
street parking or primary vehicle or pedestrian access to a building may be up
to eight feet (8') in height from finished downhill grade. Such retaining walls
are not subject to terracing but must meet all setback requirements based on
wall height as noted above with the exception that retaining walls necessary
for primary vehicle access or minimum required off street parking are not
subject to front yard setback requirements.
         c.   Standard basement egress window wells are not considered
retaining walls and are exempt from setback requirements if they are the
minimum depth and width necessary to meet building codes.
      3.   If the retaining walls not located within required setbacks on a
particular project are unable to meet the height limitations in subsection B2
of this section due to extreme topography or other unique land features, a
proposal may be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for a waiver to these
standards. Such a request must include the following information:
         a.   A grading plan;
         b.   A drainage plan;
         c.   Section drawings;
         d.   A landscaping plan;
         e.   An elevation showing the proposed materials; and
         f.   Any other items needed to show the full extent of the proposal,
including a written explanation explaining the hardship and why a greater
height is necessary.
      4.   Retaining walls in the lakeshore protection zone shall be exempt
from these regulations and shall be regulated by the appropriate lake and
lakeshore protection regulations. (Ord. 13-01, 1-22-2013; amd. Ord. 20-03, 3-
16-2020; Ord. 23-03, 4-3-2023)
11-3-12: GUESTHOUSES:
   A.   A guesthouse must be located in a detached accessory building on a lot
for which the primary use is a single-family residential dwelling. A guesthouse
may also be one component of an accessory building, such as over a detached
garage, workshop, or residential storage building. A guesthouse may be on more
than one level and may contain cooking and bathroom facilities. There is no
limit to total floor area, but guesthouses are subject to all standards of the
applicable zoning district, including total lot coverage. (Ord. 19-14, 7-1-
2019)
   B.   Any lot on which a guesthouse is located must conform to lot size and
width requirements for the applicable zoning district. Guesthouses will not be
permitted on lots of substandard size and/or width.
   C.   A guesthouse may not be permitted as accessory to a multi- family unit
or attached single-family unit of any kind, nor to a nonresidential use.
   D.   Only one guesthouse per lot is allowed.
   E.   One off street parking space shall be provided for any guesthouse of
one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet total floor area or smaller, and
for any guesthouse over one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet, two (2)
spaces shall be required. Required parking for guesthouses is in addition to
off street parking required for the primary residence. (Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
   F.   No rent may be charged or received for any guesthouse in any nonresort
Residential District, except that for a guesthouse used as quarters for
domestic workers working on the premises, rent may be charged as part of the
compensation arrangement between domestic worker(s) and owner. In resort
residential districts, guesthouses may be rented for any term of occupancy
allowed in the applicable resort residential district. Guesthouses may not be
used as a permanent residence for anyone employed in a home occupation on the
subject property. (Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005; amd. Ord. 16-04, 2-16-2016)
11-3-13: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Registration And Licensing Required: Home occupations that have
employees and/or drop in customers must have an approved "to scale" site plan
that shows required off street parking. Home occupations operating within the
city limits must also obtain a city business license. (Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015)
   B.   Conditions: Home occupations are permitted in any dwelling unit,
subject to the following provisions. An occupation which does not comply with
the following criteria shall not be deemed a home occupation:
      1.   Not more than one person other than members of a family residing on
the premises shall be engaged in a home occupation. If more than one nonfamily
member is to be engaged in a home occupation, a conditional use permit is
required.
      2.   The use of the dwelling unit shall be clearly incidental and
subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its occupants. Not more than
an area equal to one-fourth (1/4) of the gross floor area of the primary
residence shall be used for the home occupation. If an accessory building is
proposed for use, only an area not to exceed one-fourth (1/4) of the gross
floor area of the primary residence shall be used. Additional area in both
cases is allowed only by granting of a conditional use permit.
      3.   No exterior display, including window displays, shall be permitted.
      4.   No outdoor storage shall be permitted.
      5.   Exterior signs shall be restricted to a building mounted sign a
maximum of two (2) square feet and shall comply with the provisions of
subsection
11-5-6-4A2 of this title.
      6.   There shall be no other exterior indication of the home occupation.
      7.   No home occupation shall be conducted in such a manner, and/or no
materials or mechanical equipment shall be used, which will be detrimental to
the residential use of the residence or cause a nuisance to surrounding
residences, because of vibration, noise, dust, smoke, odor, interference with
radio or television reception or any other factor.
      8.   Any need for parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation
shall be met off the street on site.
      9.   The home occupation shall not generate pedestrian or vehicle traffic
in excess of that which is characteristic of the neighborhood in which it is
located. Vehicle traffic may not be increased by more than one at a given time
or by more than eight (8) during any one day.
      10.   No home occupation shall generate as a byproduct for disposal or
cause to be dumped in a city sewer any hazardous waste including chemicals and
cleaners, other than the volume and types that would be normally generated by a
typical single-family home.
      11.   No home occupation shall cause an increase in any one or more
utilities (water, sewer, garbage) so that the combined total use for dwelling
and home occupation purposes exceeds the average for residences in the
neighborhood.
      12.   In no case shall a home occupation consist of any of the following:
         a.   Any type of repair or assembly of vehicles or equipment with
internal combustion engines (such as automobiles, motorcycles, scooters,
snowmobiles, outboard marine engines, lawn mowers, chain saws, and other small
engines), or of large appliances (such as washing machines, dryers, and
refrigerators) or any other work related to automobiles and their parts, with
the exception that automobile detailing services are allowed provided that
washing occurs off site and detailing occurs only within an enclosed garage one
vehicle at a time with no outside storage of additional vehicles not owned by
the resident.
         b.   Equipment or vehicle rentals.
         c.   Retail sales with stock and trade on premises, with the exception
of yard and garage type sales (see subsection C of this section).
         d.   Storage of household goods, equipment, or materials not owned by
the resident.
         e.   Extermination services.
         f.   Pet boarding services.
         g.   Dispatch centers or other businesses where employees come to the
site and are dispatched to other locations.
      13.   There is a limit of two (2) business vehicles per home occupation
allowed parked on the premises. In connection with a home occupation, a
business vehicle is any vehicle that is used in the conduct of the home
occupation, or which has the name or logo under which the home occupation
activity is conducted painted or otherwise exhibited on the vehicle.
      14.   If the home occupation is to be conducted on a rental property, the
property owner's written authorization for the proposed use shall be obtained
with the application.
   C.   Exceptions: Temporary yard or garage sales are not considered a home
occupation and are exempt from the above requirements. Such sales are limited
to three (3) 3-day weekends or ten (10) consecutive days every six (6) months,
shall consist only of used personal items not purchased for resale, and all
merchandise shall be removed from public view between sales.
(Ord. 12-09, 6-18-2012)
11-3-14: LOTS:
   A.   General: A "lot", as defined, is subject, where applicable, to the
following special regulations:
      1.   Where two (2) or more lots are used as a building site, and where
main buildings cross lot lines, the entire area is considered as one lot,
except that the front of the parcel will be determined to be the front of the
individual lots as platted, subdivided or laid out. Prior to, or as a condition
of, the issuance of a building permit, the interior lot lines must be
abandoned.
      2.   For a flag lot, the following special standards shall apply:
         a.   All flag lots must have a twenty foot (20') minimum width access
road which abuts to a public or private street.
         b.   Any portion of the access road which measures less than thirty
feet (30') in width will not be figured as part of the lot area, lot width or
lot depth.
         c.   A fifteen foot (15') setback will be applied to all setbacks
within the lot. There will be no distinction between front, rear or side yards.
         d.   The zoning administrator will determine lot width (typically the
distance between the longest parallel lot lines when excluding the access road)
and lot length (typically the distance between the shortest parallel lot lines
when excluding the access road).
   B.   Multiple Uses On Same Lot; Conditional Use Criteria:
      1.   Total signage is limited to that permitted based on building
frontage. A master sign plan must be submitted showing the size, location,
materials and design of any proposed signage with the application for
conditional use permit.
      2.   Parking must be provided according to the sum of the uses on the
property. A generalized parking, drainage and landscaping plan must be
submitted with the application for conditional use permit to show the necessary
parking, drainage and landscaping can be accommodated on the property.
      3.   When the use requires the construction of multiple buildings, the
site layout and building design must ensure lots or sublots meeting the
requirements of subsection C of this section and the city subdivision
regulations 1 can be created. All reservations necessary for future roads and
utilities in the event of subdivision must be identified in the application.
Development of these areas is not permitted.
      4.   All buildings or groups of buildings must be arranged as to permit
emergency vehicle access by some practical means to all sides of each building.
      5.   Uses generally compatible with one another will be integrated by
design to the degree of their compatibility and separated to the degree of
their incompatibility.
      6.   A conditional use permit will not be granted in cases where the
proposed uses are unrelated and the conditional use permit process is being
used as an alternative to subdivision.
   C.   Sublots: When authorized as a permitted use in the zoning district in
which it is proposed to be located, dwellings with common party walls may be
constructed on a sublot and separately conveyed subject to compliance with the
subdivision regulations of the city and with all of the following conditions:
      1.   Site Requirements:
         a.   Recorded Lot: Each sublot must be located in a recorded
subdivision lot which meets the minimum lot size in the zoning district where
it is located.
         b.   Number Of Sublots: The allowable number of sublots will be
determined by dividing the gross area of the platted lot by the density limits
of the zoning district. In no case, however, will a sublot have an area of less
than two thousand (2,000) square feet nor more than one dwelling unit thereon.
Neither the community development board nor the zoning administrator has
authority to vary this provision. For density computation purposes, the gross
area of the lot will not be reduced by the area of drainageways dedicated to
the city.
      2.   Building Limitations: The yard, height and area requirements of the
district apply to the entire area of the platted lot or of the developed tract.
      3.   Use of Common Areas: When the proposed sublots are located in a
subdivision which also contains areas to be held in common ownership by the
respective owners of lots or sublots, such common area may be used for required
and supplementary parking for accessory buildings and for recreational
facilities.
      4.   Private Accessways: Private accessways may be used for vehicular
ingress and egress when shown on the preliminary plat, provided they are
constructed in accordance with standards and specifications approved by the
city council.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 97-2, 10-20-1997; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005;
Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
11-3-15: PROFESSIONAL ARTIST'S STUDIO/GALLERY:
Conditional use criteria for professional artists' studios or galleries shall
be as follows:
   A.   No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
structure, or three hundred (300) square feet, shall be devoted to gallery
exhibits/sales, and there may be no outside storage or display.
   B.   The studio shall be operated by the artist. A maximum of one outside
full time equivalent employee shall be engaged in the sales operation.
   C.   Signage shall be limited to that allowed by the zone.
   D.   Only original art objects shall be produced and sold on site. "Original
art" is defined as that which appeals to the aesthetic senses, is individually
created versus mass produced, is intended to have individual, enduring quality
versus immediate, short term consumption or use, and would typically include
such things as pottery, watercolor and oil painting, bronze work, sculpture,
etc., and would specifically not include T-shirt or tie dyeing shops, wood
chain saw art or similar activities.
   E.   The studio/gallery shall be allowed only within an existing building.
Any exterior modifications to the building shall be in keeping with the
residential architecture and scale of the adjacent neighborhood. (Ord. A-407,
3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
11-3-16: PROFESSIONAL OFFICES:
Conditional use criteria for professional offices shall be as follows:
   A.   When specified as a conditional use, the criteria in section
11-7-8 of this title shall be applied; provided, however, if the use is in a
WR-3 or WR-4 zoning district and abuts U.S. Highway 93 (Spokane Avenue or
Second Street), and involves an existing structure, an administrative
conditional use permit, as provided in subsection
11-7-8M of this title, shall be obtained.
   B.   The applicant shall meet the following design standards:
      1.   Total signage shall be as provided in
chapter 5 of this title.
      2.   All parking shall be provided off street according to the sum of the
uses on a particular property as follows:
         a.   Two (2) spaces per residential unit.
         b.   One space per employee per maximum shift, excluding resident
family members.
         c.   One space for each client, customer or visitor who will be
present or arriving during the period of daily activity.
         d.   In no case shall required parking be less than that required in
chapter 6 of this title.
      3.   All landscaping and parking lot improvements, including asphalt/
concrete work, shall be completed prior to occupancy; provided, however, should
occupancy occur between November and April, the owner/applicant may delay
landscaping and parking lot/driveway hard surfacing until the following May 15
to avoid inclement weather.
      4.   Any exterior modifications to the building shall be done in a mode
architecturally compatible to and in scale with buildings in the adjacent
residential neighborhood. Exterior modifications shall not exceed paint,
siding, roofing and exterior refurbishment.
   C.   The city shall design a sidewalk/bike trail system along West Second
Street in conjunction with any major construction or repairs thereof. As part
of the site improvements, the applicant/owner shall be required to install that
portion of the sidewalk/trail that crosses or abuts their property. (Ord. 11-
03, 4-18-2011)
11-3-17: RETREAT CENTER:
A "retreat center use" is defined as a land use to allow for the gathering of
individuals to educate, train, counsel and recreate together in a rural
setting. The uses permitted must be affiliated with the organization running
the retreat center, and general use is restricted to employees, participants in
the retreat center and its activities. A retreat center may be an accessory use
within an existing dwelling or a stand alone facility.
   A.   The minimum lot size shall be twenty (20) acres.
   B.   A camp or retreat center designation shall be restricted to the WA and
WCR districts.
   C.   Guests are limited to two (2) per gross acre.
   D.   The following uses may be appropriate in a retreat center. These uses
shall not be inferred to be automatically approved for all retreat centers.
Each use permit application must state specifically which uses are proposed.
      1.   Auditoriums.
      2.   Boat marinas.
      3.   Churches and other places of worship.
      4.   Community center buildings (e.g., crafts, games).
      5.   Meeting rooms.
      6.   Dormitories and cabins limited to one per two and one-half (21/2)
acres (for both guests and employees).
      7.   Daycare.
      8.   Kitchen and dining facilities.
      9.   Laundry facilities.
      10.   Maintenance, repair and storage facilities.
      11.   Offices for camp employees.
      12.   Outdoor recreation, low impact facilities.
      13.   Outdoor cooking facilities. (Ord. 05-01, 1-18-2005; amd. Ord. 05-
25, 11-21-2005)
11-3-18: SERVICE STATIONS:
Pump setback from the front property line shall be twenty five feet (25');
pavement setback from the front property line, exclusive of driveways, shall be
ten feet (10'). (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-01, 1-18-2005; Ord. 05-25,
11-21-2005)
11-3-19: SHIPPING CONTAINERS:
   A.   Definitions:
    SHIPPING CONTAINERS: A metal sided container typically used for multimodal
shipping, not placed on a foundation, and used only for storage associated with
the business on the premises. The containers shall have no wheels and were not
designed with wheels. Semitrailers, box trailers, etc., are also considered
storage containers.
   B.   Permitted Areas:
      1.   Permitted in the WI industrial zoning classifications.
      2.   Permitted in the WB-2 secondary business zoning classifications
subject to the following standards:
         a.   A limit of three (3) shipping containers per lot or tract.
         b.   The shipping container shall be accessory to an existing business
and shall not be a stand alone use.
         c.   Shipping containers shall be placed at the rear of the property
behind building(s) to minimize their visibility from the street.
         d.   Shipping containers shall be screened from adjacent side and rear
properties with thick vegetation, a solid fence, or equivalent.
   C.   Temporary Uses:
      1.   Shipping containers used by contractors for equipment storage on a
temporary basis during construction projects are exempt from these requirements
and are allowed in any zoning classification.
      2.   Shipping containers may be used on a temporary basis not to exceed
thirty (30) days per year (and not 30 day consecutive periods) in all zones.
(Ord. 03-12, 5-19-2003; amd. Ord. 05-01, 1-18-2005; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
11-3-20: SWIMMING POOLS:
   A.   The intent of the requirements in this section is to make swimming
pools inaccessible to small children for reasons of safety, and therefore,
these requirements shall not be abridged except in a manner to exceed the
specific requirements listed below:
      1.   All swimming pools shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence,
chainlink fence or wrought iron fence having vertical bars of at least one-half
inch (1/2") cross section spaced no farther apart than four inches (4") between
bars.
      2.   Required enclosure walls or fences shall be constructed so as to be
unclimbable by children. Therefore, wood (woven) fences shall be prohibited
where the boards or slats are horizontal; chainlink fences shall have
interwoven slats.
      3.   All walls or fences shall not be less than five feet (5') nor more
than seventy eight inches (78") in height except that at the discretion of the
zoning administrator and after giving consideration to location, safety and
effects on the neighborhood, a higher fence may be allowed.
      4.   No fence or wall shall have more than four inches (4") between the
bottom of the wall or fence and the underlying ground.
      5.   Where possible, the ground underlying a fence or wall should be made
impervious to any digging that a small child may attempt.
      6.   All gates shall be self-closing and shall have self-latching latches
which shall be not less than four and one-half feet (41/2') above the ground or
otherwise inaccessible from the outside to small children.
   B.   In any single-family residence district, private swimming pools shall
be in the side or rear yard and there shall be a distance of at least three
feet (3') between any property line and the water's edge, provided that at no
time shall a swimming pool be closer than twenty feet (20') to a public right
of way.
   C.   No public swimming pool shall be located closer than twenty five feet
(25') to any lot line of the lot on which it is situated. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-
1982; amd. Ord. 05-01, 1-18-2005; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
11-3-21: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   All temporary uses shall be approved in writing through the granting of
a temporary use permit by the zoning administrator on a case by case situation.
At the discretion of the zoning administrator, conditions may be imposed to
promote neighborhood compatibility or mitigate health and safety issues. The
operation of temporary uses does not include vendors or mobile vendors of
retail or food products subject to section
11-3-23 of this chapter.
   B.   Temporary uses may be granted for a period not to exceed six (6)
months.
   C.   Temporary uses must comply with all setback requirements of the zone.
   D.   Temporary uses in the form of a class A, B or C manufactured home or RV
camper may be allowed on the same lot when either a building or demolition
permit is secured and the occupants of the temporary use are actively involved
in demolishing and clearing the site or in construction of a new primary
building.
   E.   All temporary uses must have their method of providing sewer and water
approved by the Flathead city-county health department, where appropriate and
the Whitefish zoning administrator. (Ord. 09-10, 8-17-2009)
   F.   Seasonal temporary uses for the operation of fireworks stands,
Christmas tree sales and nursery/produce stands shall have specific and
definable time frames to coincide with the particular season.
      1.   For fireworks stands within the city limits and within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the city limits, the sale of fireworks is limited to the days
of July 2 through July 4 and for the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
through eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. 1 . Sales of fireworks at any other times
other than specified in this subsection are prohibited. (Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015)
      2.   Signage shall be unlighted and approved by the planning department
subject to the provisions of
chapter 5 of this title.
   G.   The temporary use structures shall be removed from the property and the
entire property shall be restored to compliance with the zone within ten (10)
days after expiration of the permit. (Ord. 09-10, 8-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-1-6C of this code.
11-3-22: USES REGARDING ANIMALS:
   A.   Animal Hospitals, Pounds, Kennels And Shelters:
      1.   Animals boarded overnight shall be kept in climate controlled,
soundproofed buildings.
      2.   Where facilities are not soundproofed or climate controlled, no
partially or fully enclosed structure or fenced open area used to board animals
shall be closer than one hundred feet (100') from an adjacent property line.
      3.   Animal excreta shall be removed from the site daily or as otherwise
necessary to avoid the spread of objectionable odors, insect pests and
objectionable surface drainage.
   B.   Livestock:
      1.   The maximum density permitted outright for livestock in designated
zones shall be determined by the use of the following table:
Permitted Livestock Livestock Per Acre
Permitted Livestock    Livestock Per Acre
Calf                   2
Cattle                 2
Chickens               50
Colt/filly             2
Cow with calf          3
Fowl                   50
Goats                  5
Goats with kids        5
Horse                  2
Horse with foal        3
Kids                   5
Lambs                  5
Llama                  7
Llama with baby (cria) 7
Sheep                  5
Sheep with lambs       5
Swine                  21
 
   Note:
1.   See subsection B7 of this section.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-01, 1-18-2005; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
      2.   Where an applicant wishes to exceed the animal densities as provided
for in the above table, the applicant may apply for a conditional use permit.
Criteria to be considered when granting either permit may include:
         a.   Character of the neighborhood.
         b.   Adjacent land use.
         c.   Animal management abilities of applicant.
         d.   External impacts associated with increased density including
noise, odor and runoff.
         e.   Animal waste disposal plan.
         f.   Any unusual or advanced designs or methods in animal handling or
sheltering which would lessen potential negative impacts on present or future
neighboring uses. (Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015)
      3.   The amount of available "pastureland", defined as that land inside a
completely fenced area available to the livestock for as long as the livestock
are on the property, must equal or exceed the actual number of livestock units
allowed. The keeping of livestock will not be permitted where the usable
pastureland is less than one-half (1/2) acre.
      4.   Should the amount of usable pastureland be reduced either seasonably
or permanently as a result of action either by the landowner or tenant, or by a
public agency, the number of allowable livestock units shall be reduced
correspondingly.
      5.   In the WCR through WR-4 zones, usable pasture and the enclosing
fence shall not be allowed in the front yard setback or closer than two feet
(2') from a property line or ten feet (10') from a residential dwelling.
      6.   In the WA zone, livestock fences shall be allowed in the front yard
setback and on property lines except as where limited elsewhere in these
regulations.
      7.   Livestock in WCR through WR-1 zones are only allowed for domestic
use or consumption and shall not be raised for commercial purposes. The keeping
or raising of swine or pigs in residential zoned areas zoned WR-1 through WR-
4 is not allowed.
      8.   All livestock in residential zones shall be kept inside fenced
enclosures. Related buildings such as barns, stables, and coops shall be
allowed only in the rear and side yards of main buildings and shall be at least
fifty feet (50') from the property lines of the subject tract or lot. (Ord. A-
407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 05-01, 1-18-2005; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005)
   C.   Poultry As Pets:
      1.   The keeping of five (5) or less hens are allowed as pets in
residential zones without permits.
      2.   All hens kept as pets must be kept in rear and side yards, inside
fenced enclosures and coops which must be set back a minimum of ten feet (10')
from the property lines of the subject tract or lot.
      3.   The keeping of hens as pets in residential zones shall be limited to
single-family and two-family residential uses (duplexes, sublots, accessory
apartments and guesthouses). (Ord. 08-26, 1-5-2009)
11-3-23: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS:
   A.   Purpose: Food and beverage vendors are permitted to operate on private
property or on public property if city policy allows such, outside of community
wide events or private catering contracts upon issuance of a vendor permit.
Vendor operations are temporary in nature and provide a unique service to the
community by providing affordable food and/or beverages to go and by helping
incubate small businesses. Vendor locations are restricted to those zoning
designations where listed as a permitted use as specified within
chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   Vendor Standards: Vendors operating outside of a community wide or
special event are limited to food and beverage sales only with the exception of
seasonal uses such as produce stands, fireworks stands and Christmas tree lots
administered under temporary uses. Conditions of approval for food vendor
operations include:
      1.   Payment of a permit fee as established by the city council.
      2.   A vendor application must be submitted with a "to scale" site plan
showing the proposed location of the cart or trailer in relation to the
property lines, existing buildings, existing parking lots and sidewalks.
      3.   Proof that all setbacks will be met and that the vendor's structure
and activity will not affect the required parking of the primary use of the
property.
      4.   Signs advertising the activities or menus of vendors must be
attached to the surface of the cart or sales facility. Such signs must be
unlighted. Temporary signs, banners or flags are not permitted, with the
exception that one portable "A-frame" or menu sign is permitted per site in the
Old Town Sign District downtown provided it meets the requirements of
11-5-6-2-A-6.
      5.   All vendors must have their method of providing sewer and water
service approved by the Flathead city-county health department, where
appropriate, and the Whitefish building official and the Whitefish zoning
administrator.
      6.   No temporary or permanent water, sanitary sewer or storm drainage
connections are permitted from vendor operations/vehicles to public or private
utility systems.
      7.   All vendors must have their method of providing electricity from a
generator or an electrical outlet via a portable cord that is in conformance
with the electrical code as adopted by the city of Whitefish.
         a.   Electrical lines are not allowed overhead or lying on a sidewalk.
         b.   The outlet location must be placed outside the walkways which are
accessible to public and private use.
         c.   Length of electrical hookup must be within fifteen feet (15') of
the stand.
         d.   No extension cords will be allowed.
         e.   Hookup must be permanently wired to the retail stand and meet
national electrical code requirements as to type, size and grounding,
terminating in an approved outside weatherproof type receptacle. An electrical
permit is required for new connections.
         f.   Each vendor stand or trailer must have a fire and building code
inspection prior to issuance of a permit.
         g.   All vendors using propane inside a trailer or food truck must
have an operational propane gas detector located inside at all times.
      8.   All vendors engaged in the sale of food must have a valid Flathead
city-county food service permit and must comply with all applicable laws, rules
and regulations regarding food handling and preparation. All vehicles used for
the sale of food by mobile vendors must comply with all the laws, rules and
regulations respecting such vehicles, and the appearance of such will be
reviewed by the zoning administrator prior to issuance of a permit.
      9.   A drive-through is not permitted in conjunction with a vendor.
      10.   Vendors must not operate in public rights of way, public parking
spaces, driveways or fire lanes or within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant,
fire escape, bus stop, loading zone, handicapped parking space or access ramp
unless otherwise authorized by the city manager or public works director.
      11.   All facilities and equipment used by vendors must be portable. This
requirement is deemed met if setup time does not exceed thirty (30) minutes.
      12.   Proof of property owner permission is required.
      13.   A five (5) pound ABC fire extinguisher is required if a heating or
cooking appliance is used by the vendor.
      14.   Proof of an insurance policy, issued by an insurance company
licensed to do business in the State of Montana:
         a.   For public liability insurance in an amount of not less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for injuries, including those resulting
in death, resulting from any one occurrence, and on account of any one
accident; and
         b.   Property damage insurance in an amount of not less than twenty-
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for damages on account of any one accident
or occurrence.
      15.   Proof of permission for employees to use restroom facilities
nearby.
   C.   Prohibited Conduct: No vendor will:
      1.   Leave any stand unattended or store, park or leave any stand
overnight, unless approved as a food vendor court with an approved
administrative conditional use permit for multiple food vendors on one site;
      2.   Sell food or beverages for immediate consumption unless he or she
has available for public use a garbage can maintained by the vendor within ten
feet (10') of the service window;
      3.   Leave any location without first picking, removing and disposing of
all trash or refuse remaining from sales made by the vendor.
   D.   Vendor Permit Process:
      1.   Upon receipt of a completed application that meets all requirements
of this section and any associated fees, and verification that a city business
registration has been obtained, the Zoning Administrator may grant a one year
permit for operations. If the applicant complies with all standards associated
with the approved permit, State law and City ordinances, the Zoning
Administrator may renew the permit at the request of the applicant. If there is
a valid complaint that the vendor does not meet one or more of the standards
outlined in this section, the Zoning Administrator may, at his own discretion
or at the direction of the City Council, cancel the permit and/or deny any
renewals. A vendor may appeal that decision in writing, and in such cases a
hearing before the City Council will be scheduled on the renewal. The decision
of the City Council will be final.
      2.   All vendor permits may be approved in writing through the granting
of a vendor permit by the Zoning Administrator on a case-by-case basis.
Additional conditions may be imposed on the use in order to promote
neighborhood compatibility or to mitigate health and safety issues.
      3.   Vendor operations are limited to one per lot unless otherwise
approved as a food vendor court through the administrative conditional use
permit process outlined in section
11-7-8 of this title.
(Ord. 14-02, 3-17-2014; amd. Ord. 23-28, 11-20-2023)
11-3-24: WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITIES:
   A.   Scope: This section does not apply to "small wireless facilities" as
defined in section
7-6-1 of this Code. "Small wireless facilities" require a small cell permit in
accordance with the provisions of
title 7, chapter 6 of this Code.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Wireless service facilities are permitted in the WA,
WCR, WSR, WER, WLR, WR, WB, WRR, WRB and WI zoning classifications, provided:
      1.   The structure is collocated on an existing tower or monopole and the
height is not increased on the previously existing structure; or
      2.   The structure is attached to an existing building or structure
(water tower, church steeple, clock tower, etc.), is architecturally compatible
and does not extend above the roofline.
      3.   If a perimeter fence is requested, a five foot (5') landscape screen
is placed around the proposed perimeter fencing.
   C.   Conditional Uses: Wireless service facilities require a conditional use
permit in the WA, WCR, WSR, WER, WLR, WR, WB, WRR, WRB and WI zoning
classifications if the structure/tower does not meet the requirements in
subsection A of this section. The City is reviewing in the wireless service
structures/towers for neighborhood compatibility, as provided for in the 1996
Telecommunications Act. The following questions must be addressed in the
application for a conditional use permit of a wireless service facility and
they may be used as the basis for approval or denial of the application:
      1.   Will the location visually impact neighboring property owners? Will
a tower block the view of neighboring residents from prominent features such as
Big Mountain or Tea Kettle Mountain and the Badrock Canyon?
      2.   Will the structure be placed on the crest of a mountain or hill and
extend into the skyline thus impacting aesthetic concerns?
      3.   Will the Federal Aviation Administration require lighting for
aviation safety?
      4.   Can the structure/tower be camouflaged to look like a flagpole,
streetlight, evergreen tree, etc., in order to blend in with the surrounding
environment? Camouflage is also considered as placement on existing water
towers or on top of existing buildings.
      5.   Will the new structure allow for collocation and, if so, how many
positions will be available for collocation?
      6.   Each applicant for one or more towers shall provide the Planning
Department an inventory of existing towers within the planning jurisdiction
including design information criteria and photos. The City may share such
information at its discretion.
   D.   Standards: The following standards shall apply to any request for a
conditional use permit under subsection C of this section:
      1.   No tower under one hundred fifty feet (150') shall be artificially
lighted except as required by the FAA.
      2.   No advertising is permitted anywhere on the facility, with the
exception of identification signage not to exceed eight (8) square feet.
      3.   Except for collocation on existing towers or camouflaged towers 1 ,
new wireless communication towers shall not be located in open pasture or
agricultural lands. All visual screening shall be maintained throughout the
life of the facility.
      4.   Any applicant requesting permission to install a new tower shall
provide collocation potential for additional carriers with comparable antennas
within forty five (45) days. For towers one hundred feet (100') and over, the
applicant shall provide accommodations for at least two (2) additional users.
For new towers fifty feet (50') to ninety nine feet (99') in height, the
applicant shall provide for at least one additional user.
      5.   Any applicant requesting permission to install a new tower shall
provide evidence of a written contract with all wireless service providers who
supply service within one mile of the proposed facility. The applicant shall
inquire about the potential collocation opportunities at all technically
feasible locations.
      6.   The applicant shall demonstrate that the tower must be located where
it is proposed in order to serve the applicant's service area. There shall be
an explanation of why a tower and this proposed site is technically necessary.
      7.   Except for collocation on existing towers, new wireless
communication towers shall be set back at least the distance required in the
underlying zone from all property lines of the parent tract.
      8.   If a security fence is proposed, a five foot (5') tall dense
landscaping screen shall be planted around the security fence of any structure/
tower.
      9.   Screening or camouflage may be required to visually obscure wireless
communication facilities in highly visible locations.
   E.   Abandonment: Should any wireless service facility be abandoned or cease
to operate for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days, the structure/tower
shall be removed. It shall be the responsibility of the structure/tower owner
to promptly notify the City if a facility is abandoned or ceases operation.
(Ord. 19-09, 5-20-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection C4 of this
  section for examples of camouflage.
11-3-25: OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
   A.   Title: This section, together with the amendments thereto, is known and
may be cited as the WHITEFISH OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   B.   Purpose: The general purpose of the lighting standards is to protect
and promote the public health, safety and welfare, the quality of life, and the
ability to view the night sky, by establishing regulations and a process for
review of exterior lighting. This section establishes standards for exterior
lighting in order to accomplish the following:
      1.   To provide safe roadways for motorists, cyclists and pedestrians;
      2.   To protect against direct glare and excessive lighting;
      3.   To ensure that sufficient lighting can be provided where needed to
promote safety and security;
      4.   To prevent light trespass in all areas of the City;
      5.   To protect and reclaim the ability to view the night sky;
      6.   To allow for flexibility in the style of lighting fixtures;
      7.   To provide lighting guidelines;
      8.   To reduce the costs of lighting by developing more efficient
lighting options;
      9.   To educate the public as to the benefits of efficient and
appropriate outdoor lighting;
      10.   To provide assistance to property owners, occupants and business
owners in bringing nonconforming lighting into conformance with this section;
      11.   To work with other jurisdictions within Flathead County to meet the
purposes of this section; and
      12.   To conserve energy and resources.
   C.   Applicability: All residential, commercial, industrial and other
lighting, whether on public or private property, within the zoning jurisdiction
of the city of Whitefish must conform with these standards and specifications.
   D.   General Standards:
      1.   Exterior Lighting: All exterior lighting must be designed, located
and lamped in order to prevent:
         a.   Over lighting;
         b.   Energy waste;
         c.   Glare;
         d.   Light trespass; and
         e.   Skyglow.
      2.   Nonessential Exterior Lighting: All nonessential exterior commercial
and residential lighting is encouraged to be turned off after business hours
and/or when not in use. Lights on a timer are encouraged. Sensor activated
lights are encouraged to replace existing lighting desired for security
purposes.
      3.   Canopy Lights: Canopy lights, such as service station lighting must
be fully recessed or fully shielded so as to ensure that no light source is
visible from or causes glare on public rights of way or adjacent properties.
Any canopy structure used at a business location must have recessed lights with
diffusers which do not extend below the surface of the canopy.
      4.   Area Lights: All area lights must be eighty five degree (85°) full
cutoff type luminaries (see figure 1 in subsection H of this section).
      5.   Roof Illumination: Roof illumination, such as lights shining upward
toward roofs or on rooftops, is not allowed.
      6.   Mercury Vapor Lights: Mercury vapor lights are prohibited because of
the poor color spectrum, light intensity and inefficient energy use.
      7.   Electric Company Standards: Flathead Electric Cooperative, Inc.,
lighting shall be in conformance with the regulations herein. Flathead Electric
Cooperative, Inc., must not install any luminaires after the effective date of
this section that light the public right of way without first receiving
approval for any such application by the zoning administrator.
   E.   Type Of Luminaires: All exterior lighting must use full cutoff
luminaires with the light source downcast and fully shielded, with the
following exceptions:
      1.   Output: Light fixtures (wall mounted or freestanding) that do not
exceed the following lumen or wattage outputs per fixture are permitted and are
not required to be full cutoff:
 
Maximum Total Output
Per Fixture           Shield Type Required Lens Required  Other Requirements
(Regardless Of The
Number Of Bulbs)
45 watt bulb or                                           Top must be opaque,
equivalent or a total                                     or the fixture must
of 45 watts for all   May be unshielded    Can be clear   be under an opaque
bulbs in the fixture                                      structure
(equals 400 lumens)
60 watt bulb or                                           Bulb cannot be
equivalent or a total                                     visible. Top must be
of 60 watts for all   Partially shielded   Must be opaque opaque, or the
bulbs in the fixture                                      fixture must be under
(equals 1,000 lumens)                                     an opaque structure
 
      2.   Floodlights: Floodlights with external shielding must be angled
provided no light is directed above a twenty five degree (25°) angle measured
from the vertical line from the center of the light extended to the ground, and
only if the luminaire does not cause glare or light to shine on adjacent
property or public rights of way (see figure 6 in subsection H of this
section). Photocells with timers that allow a floodlight to go on at dusk and
off by eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M., or one-half (½) hour after the close of
business, are recommended.
      3.   Holiday Lighting: Holiday lighting is covered in subsection
11-5-4A12 of this title, a portion of the Whitefish sign regulations. Flashing
holiday lights on residential properties are discouraged. Holiday lights are
encouraged to be turned off by eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M., or the close of
business for commercial properties.
      4.   Sensor Activated: Sensor activated luminaires are encouraged to be
full cutoff. They may be less than full cutoff, provided:
         a.   It is located in such a manner as to prevent glare and lighting
onto properties of others or into a public right of way;
         b.   The luminaire is set to only go on when activated and to go off
within five (5) minutes after activation has ceased; and
         c.   The luminaire is not be triggered by activity off the property.
      5.   Emergency Lighting: Vehicular lights and all temporary emergency
lighting needed by the fire and police departments, or other emergency
services.
      6.   Flags: Flags are encouraged to be unlit. If flags are up lighted,
the maximum lumen output is one thousand three hundred (1,300) lumens.
      7.   Tower Lighting: Lighting of radio, communication and navigation
towers; provided the owner or occupant demonstrates that the federal aviation
administration (FAA) regulations can only be met through the use of lighting
that does not comply with this section and that the provisions of section 11-3-
24 of this chapter are otherwise met.
      8.   Neon Lights: Neon lights permitted pursuant to the sign ordinance,
chapter 5 of this title.
      9.   Playing Fields: Luminaires used for playing fields are exempt from
the height restriction provided all other provisions of this section are met
and the light is used only while the field is in use.
      10.   Single Pole Light Fixtures: Single pole light fixtures of a
historic style with a maximum watt output of no greater than fifty (50) watts
permitted to be partially shielded, so long as the top of the fixture is
shielded, and the bulb is not visible for more than one and one-half inches (1
1/2") when viewed from pedestrian level.
   F.   Placement And Height Of Luminaires:
      1.   Parking Area Lights: Parking area lights are encouraged to be
greater in number, lower in height and lower in light level, as opposed to
fewer in number, higher in height and higher in light level:
         a.   Parking area luminaires up to seventeen feet (17') in height are
permitted subject to all other regulations in this section.
         b.   Parking area luminaires between seventeen feet (17') and thirty
feet (30') in height may be permitted, subject to the submittal of an
illumination plan showing location, intensity and light trespass from all
proposed fixtures. This illumination plan must be approved by the city before
lighting may be installed.
         c.   Parking area luminaires must not exceed the height of the
building.
      2.   Residential Freestanding Luminaires:
         a.   Freestanding luminaires located in the front yard may contain a
pole lamp at any distance from the city right of way, so long as:
            (1)   The purpose of the freestanding luminaire is to light the
street and/or to guide visitors to the residential property from the street;
            (2)   The luminaire does not exceed eight feet (8') in height; and
            (3)   The luminaire is properly shielded (see subsection E of this
section and section
11-9-2, “Definitions”, of this title).
            (4)   Motion-activated lights are preferred.
         b.   Freestanding luminaires located in the side or rear yards must be
set back from the property line the height of the pole and should be motion
activated so they are not continually illuminated.
      3.   Streetlights on Arterials: Streetlights used on arterial roads may
exceed twenty feet (20') in height, with the recommendation by the city
council, and only with a finding that exceeding twenty feet (20') is necessary
to protect the safety of the residents of Whitefish.
   G.   Illuminance Levels and LED Lighting:
      1.   Illuminance levels for parking lots, sidewalks, and other walkways
affected by side mounted building lights, freestanding sidewalk lights (not
streetlights) and other site lighting shall not exceed illuminance levels
listed in the most current IESNA recommended practices. They must be the
minimum needed to create adequate visibility at night, must be energy efficient
and must utilize energy efficient "warm-white" or filtered (CCT <3,000 K; S/
P ratio <1.2) fully shielded LED lights where possible. Light fixtures not
necessary for security purposes must be reduced, activated by motion sensor
devices, or turned off during hours when the business or use is not open.
      2.   All existing and/or new exterior lighting must not cause light
trespass and must protect adjacent properties from glare and excessive
lighting.
      3.   Streetlights shall be designed and installed in accordance with
Chapter 7 of the City Engineering Standards.
   H.   Tables And Information Sheets: The figures and information sheets,
identified as figures 1–6 and table 1 of this subsection, will be incorporated
into this section as guidelines for the public and the city for use in
enforcing this section. The city does not endorse or discriminate against any
manufacturer or company that may be shown, portrayed or mentioned by the
following examples:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3083.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3085.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3087.png]
 
TABLE 1
INITIAL RATED LIGHT OUTPUT OF VARIOUS LAMPS
(Information From Sylvania #PL-150, General Electric #9200 And Phillips #SG-100
Large Lamp Catalogs)
Lamp Type Lamp Wattage Initial Lumen Output
Lamp Type                                  Lamp Wattage Initial Lumen Output
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)            25        235
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)            40        375
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)            60        890
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)            100       1,690
Incandescent lamp (frosted) (Syl.)            150       2,850
Incandescent flood or spot (GE)               75        765
Incandescent flood or spot (GE)               120       1,500
Incandescent flood or spot (GE)               150       2,000
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)          42        665
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)          52        885
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)          72        1,300
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)          300       6,000
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)          500       10,500
Quartz halogen lamp (frosted) (Syl.)          1,000     21,000
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (GE) (12    20        260
volt MR-16 type)
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (GE) (12    42        630
volt MR-16 type)
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (GE) (12    50        895
volt MR-16 type)
Quartz halogen mini flood or spot (GE) (12    75        1,300
volt MR-16 type)
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                   7         400
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                   9         600
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                   13        900
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                   22        1,200
Fluorescent lamp (Phillips)                   28        1,600
Fluorescent lamp (GE cool white)              40        3,150
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)           18        1,800
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)           35        4,800
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)           55        8,000
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)           90        13,500
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)           135       22,500
Low pressure sodium lamp (Phillips)           180       33,000
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (GE)      35        2,250
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (GE)      50        4,000
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (GE)      70        6,400
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (GE)      100       9,500
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (GE)      150       16,000
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (GE)      250       27,500
High pressure sodium lamp (diffuse) (GE)      400       50,000
Mercury vapor lamp (white deluxe) (Syl.)      100       4,500
Mercury vapor lamp (white deluxe) (Syl.)      175       8,500
Mercury vapor lamp (white deluxe) (Syl.)      250       11,100
Mercury vapor lamp (white deluxe) (Syl.)      400       20,100
Metal halide lamp (coated) (GE)               32        2,500
Metal halide lamp (coated) (Venture)          50        3,400
Metal halide lamp (coated) (GE)               100       9,000
Metal halide lamp (coated) (GE)               175       15,750
Metal halide lamp (coated) (GE)               250       20,500
Metal halide lamp (coated) (GE)               400       36,000
 
   I.   Procedure:
      1.   All new developments must submit lighting plans to the zoning
administrator for review and approval. Such plans must include location, type,
height, lumen output, and illuminance levels in order to verify that lighting
conforms to the provisions of this section. The zoning administrator may waive
the requirement for illuminance level information only, if the zoning
administrator finds the illuminance levels conform to this section. For all
other exterior lights which must conform to the requirements of this section,
the submittal must be made to the zoning administrator, showing location, type,
height, lumen output and illuminance levels.
      2.   The zoning administrator will issue a decision whether the exterior
lighting complies with the standards of this section.
   J.   Existing Lighting: All existing non-conforming exterior lighting must
be brought into conformance with this section.
   K.   Violations And Legal Actions: If the zoning administrator finds any
provision of this section is being violated, the zoning administrator must give
notice by hand delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested, of such
violation to the owner and/or to the occupant of such premises, requiring that
the violation be abated within ninety (90) days of the date of hand delivery or
of the date of mailing of the notice. The code enforcement officer shall be
available to assist in working to correct said violation. If the violation is
not abated within the ninety (90) day period, the zoning administrator may
institute actions and proceedings, including legal, equitable or criminal, to
enjoin, restrain, abate or prosecute any violations of this section.
   L.   Appeals: Any person may make a written appeal from any ruling or order
made by the zoning administrator pursuant to section
11-7-6 of this title.
(Ord. 06-16, 7-17-2006; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
11-3-26: OPTIONAL ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT:
(Rep. by Ord. 11-04, 4-18-2011)
11-3-27: LAKESHORE PROTECTION ZONE DELINEATION AND SETBACK:
   A.   Prior to the start of any construction activity on any property
adjacent to Whitefish Lake, or Lost Coon Lake, the lakeshore protection zone
(LPZ) boundary, as described in section
13-1-1 of this code, shall be established and staked on site by a registered
land surveyor licensed to practice in the state of Montana. (Ord. 14-21, 1-5-
2015)
   B.   Prior to the start of any construction activity, an effective siltation
barrier shall be installed at the LPZ boundary. This barrier shall be designed
and constructed to prevent silt and debris from the construction site from
entering the LPZ, and shall be maintained until such time as permanent erosion
control and site stabilization are established on the subject property.
   C.   Any structural element rising above finished grade must be set back a
minimum of ten feet (10') measured horizontally from the LPZ boundary. For
purposes of this section, structural elements rising above finished grade
include, but shall not be limited to, decks, buildings, boathouses, retaining
walls, gazebos and similar recreational structures. Patios installed at grade,
required safety devices such as handrails, and steps or stairs four feet (4')
in width or less, are not subject to this setback. Notwithstanding the
provisions of subsection
11-2-3B6 of this title, no part of any structure, including architectural
features, eaves, cantilevers, decks, or overhangs of any kind, may encroach
into the setback described herein.
   D.   This minimum setback regulation shall not supersede any slope
protection standards or other environmental regulations set forth in this
title.
   E.   No mechanized equipment may operate in the LPZ for any reason unless a
lakeshore construction permit is issued pursuant to
title 13 of this code. (Ord. 07-09, 4-16-2007)
11-3-28: COMMUNITY DECAY:
   A.   Definitions: In this section, the following terms have the meanings
indicated below:
ABANDONED, WRECKED, JUNKED OR DISMANTLED VEHICLE, EQUIPMENT OR MACHINERY: Every
vehicle, machine or piece of equipment which is not being used for its
manufactured or intended purpose and has been discarded, abandoned, wrecked,
stored, junked, dismantled or partially dismantled, including parts thereof.
FIRE HAZARD: Where owing to the existence of solid waste or waste, dried grass,
weeds or shrubbery, the condition of the property is likely to cause a fire.
INOPERABLE: With respect to any vehicle, the inability of all significant
mechanical and electrical systems on such vehicle to operate properly and
dependably, or the absence of any significant parts. With respect to wheeled
and/or motorized vehicles, and where applicable, inoperable means the inability
of any of the following systems to operate properly and dependably, or the
absence of such parts: tires, wheels, brakes, engine, ignition, transmission,
suspension, steering, windows, windshield, horn, muffler, rearview mirror,
windshield wiper, service brakes, parking brakes, headlights, brake lights,
turn signals.
OBJECT: Any material, substance or composition not yet classified as waste,
solid waste or a fire hazard but which may subsequently be determined to be
waste, solid waste or a fire hazard. Object, though used in the singular term,
can also mean the plural when circumstances require.
OWNER: Owner of the title to real property or the contract purchaser of real
property as shown in the last available complete assessment roll in the office
of the county assessor.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
SHIELDING: Refers to fencing or other fabricated barriers to conceal a facility
from public view. It also refers to natural barriers.
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible waste including, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, refuse, demolition wastes (including wood,
bricks, concrete, used road blacktop and other similar materials), ashes,
wastepaper and cardboard, sewage, sludge, septic tank and cesspool pumpage or
other sludge, commercial, industrial, construction waste, discarded home and
industrial appliances, manure, vegetable or animal solid and semisolid wastes,
dead animals and other waste.
UNLICENSED: With respect to any vehicle which is required to be registered
under state law with the department of justice, motor vehicle division, the
absence of the appropriate license tags and/or stickers attached to such
vehicle showing a current registration.
VEHICLE: Any automobile, car, truck, motorcycle, tractor, trailer, pole
trailer, bus, camper, motor home, travel trailer, recreational vehicle, boat or
other watercraft.
WASTE: Useless or discarded materials.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: Includes the zoning administrator and any employee of the
city planning and building department that the zoning administrator designates
to carry out the responsibilities identified herein.
   B.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance: The deposit, accumulation, storage,
collection, maintenance or display of waste, solid waste; abandoned, wrecked,
junked or dismantled vehicles, equipment or machinery; inoperable or unlicensed
vehicles; or dried grass, weeds or shrubbery is hereby found to create a
condition tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote blight,
deterioration and unsightliness, to create fire hazards, to create a harborage
for rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health, safety and general
welfare of the people. Therefore, the presence of waste, solid waste;
abandoned, wrecked, junked or dismantled vehicles, equipment or machinery;
inoperable or unlicensed vehicles; or dried grass, dried weeds or dried
shrubbery on private or public property is hereby declared to constitute a
public nuisance which may be abated in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   C.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to vehicles enclosed in a
building, covered by a cover specifically designed for covering vehicles,
vehicles which are shielded according to the definition set forth in this
section, or to any vehicle held in connection with a lawfully operated business
enterprise.
   D.   Entry Upon Private Property:
      1.   The zoning administrator is authorized at all times to enter upon
private property and examine any object for the purpose of determining if it is
a public nuisance as defined herein. However, before entering upon private
property, the zoning administrator shall obtain consent of the occupant thereof
or have a warrant of the appropriate court authorizing his or her entry for the
purpose of inspection.
      2.   No search warrant shall be issued under the terms of this subsection
D until an affidavit has been filed with the appropriate court showing probable
cause for such inspection by stating the purpose and the extent of the proposed
inspection or other specific or general information concerning the object in
question and identifying the property on which it is situated.
      3.   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or attempt to
prevent the zoning administrator from entering upon private premises and
inspecting such object when the zoning administrator exhibits a warrant
authorizing the entry of or has obtained consent of the occupant of the
property.
   E.   Initial Action:
      1.   When the zoning administrator determines that a nuisance condition
described in this section exists in the city's zoning jurisdiction, the zoning
administrator shall make an initial contact with the property owner for the
purpose of making said owner aware of the violation. The initial contact shall
be in writing, or by telephone followed up in writing. The initial contact
shall explain the violation, cite the applicable provision(s) of the code, set
a date for compliance and/or abatement, and provide contact information for the
Whitefish planning and building department.
      2.   In the event that a nuisance condition persists after the date given
for abatement/compliance as set forth in subsection E1 of this section, the
zoning administrator shall issue a second notice requiring abatement/compliance
in no more than twenty one (21) calendar days. Should the nuisance condition
persist beyond that time period, the zoning administrator shall proceed as set
forth in subsection F of this section.
   F.   Notice Of Nuisance Condition:
      1.   Mailed Notice:
         a.   The city planning and building department shall notify the owner
and any occupants of the premises by personal service or by certified mail. The
notice shall state:
            (1)   That a hearing will be held concerning the nuisance character
of the property.
            (2)   A description of the property and alleged nuisances.
            (3)   The time and place of the hearing.
         b.   A copy of this notice shall be posted on the property.
      2.   Published And Posted Notices: At least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing date, the city shall publish a notice of the hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city or post notices in at least three (3)
public places in the city.
   G.   Hearing:
      1.   Right To Be Heard: At the hearing, the owner or other interested
parties shall have the right to be heard.
      2.   Inspection Of Property: The council may inspect the property and
consider the facts observed in determining whether the property is a nuisance.
      3.   Resolution Of Council:
         a.   If the council determines that the property is a nuisance, the
council may, by resolution, order the property to be made safe and prescribe
what must be done to make it safe.
         b.   In the resolution, the council may set a time, not less than ten
(10) days, within which the order must be obeyed.
   H.   Council Orders; Notice: Notice of the council's determination and
orders by the council shall be by personal service or by certified mail to the
owner of the property. If the orders are not obeyed and the property is not
made safe within the time specified by the order, the council may order the
property made safe at the expense of the owner of the property on which it is
located.
   I.   Abatement By City Of Whitefish: If the council orders are not complied
with, the council may specify the work to be done and direct that it be
undertaken by city personnel and equipment or that the city contract for such
work.
   J.   Assessment For Costs:
      1.   The city shall forward to the owner, by personal service or by
certified mail, a notice stating:
         a.   The total cost of abatement, including the administrative costs.
         b.   The costs as indicated will be assessed to and become a lien
against the property unless paid within thirty (30) days from the date of the
notice.
         c.   If the owner objects to the costs of the abatement as indicated,
a written notice of objection may be filed with the city planning and building
department not more than ten (10) days from the date of the notice.
      2.   No sooner than thirty (30) days after the date of the notice of
costs, the council, in the regular course of business, shall hear and make a
decision on the objections to the costs assessed.
      3.   If the costs of the abatement are not paid within thirty (30) days
from the date of the notice of costs or if an objection was filed within ten
(10) days from the council determination, an assessment of the costs, as stated
or as decided by the council, shall be made by resolution, and thereafter
recorded with the Flathead County clerk and recorder and/or assessed with other
property assessments at which time it shall constitute a lien on the property
from which the nuisance was removed or abated.
      4.   The lien shall bear interest at a rate set by the council at the
time of assessment.
   K.   Summary Abatement: The procedure of this section need not be followed
if the condition of the property is unmistakably dangerous and imminently
endangers life or property. In this instance, the city manager, zoning
administrator or the police chief may summarily abate the nuisance.
   L.   Errors In Procedure: Failure to conform to the requirements of this
section that does not substantially and adversely affect the legal right of a
person does not invalidate a proceeding under this section.
   M.   Penalty: A person convicted of the offense of maintaining a public
nuisance under this section is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as
provided in the general penalty in section
1-4-1 of this code. The city reserves any and all additional remedies available
to enforce this section, including, but not limited to, injunction, abatement
and cease and desist orders available under this code and state law. (Ord. 07-
07, 3-19-2007)
11-3-29: WATER QUALITY PROTECTION:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: It is the purpose of this section to apply
development standards to lots or parcels with the greatest chance of affecting
water quality:
      1.   Maintain the community's ability to manage stormwater through
protection of "critical conveyances".
      2.   Protect and improve the quality of the Whitefish area's water
bodies, including lakes, streams, and the Whitefish River, which are central to
the community's identity and values.
      3.   Protect public safety, public and private property, and water
quality from threats of geologic instability and erosion.
      4.   Protect and preserve the lawful use and enjoyment of private
property.
To accomplish these objectives, this section will set forth a series of
standards and regulations to maintain the ability of critical conveyances to
carry stormwater; to limit sediment, nutrients and other pollutants entering
the area's streams and lakes; to properly condition and, where necessary,
prohibit development in geologically unstable areas adjacent to water bodies.
The intent of these regulations is to promote lawful and responsible land
development. These regulations allow the restoration of streams, stream banks,
slopes, and wetlands; sound forest management; and the clearing and removal of
hazardous vegetation to protect life and property.
   B.   Administration:
      1.   Applicability: Any new or expanded residential, commercial or
industrial development proposal within two hundred (200) horizontal feet of a
lake, river, wetland, stream or stormwater conveyance must comply with this
section. Any lots or parcels that were created by whatever means prior to April
3, 2006, or after March 3, 2008, are required to comply with this section.
      The following developments, activities and associated uses are exempt
from the provision of this section:
         a.   Those activities necessary to prevent an immediate threat to
public health, safety, or welfare, or pose an immediate risk of damage to
private property and that require remedial or preventive action in a time frame
too short to allow for compliance with the requirements of this section. After
the emergency, the person or agency undertaking the action must report any
impacts to the water quality protection area to the director within five (5)
days of the activity. The director may require submittal of a water quality
protection area report or geotechnical letter to guide restoration or
mitigation for these impacts. Final approval of the report, restoration and
mitigation will be in accordance with provisions of this section.
         b.   Operation, maintenance, repair, modification, or addition to
existing structures, infrastructure improvements, utilities, public or private
roads, dikes, levees, or drainage systems, if the activity applies best
management practices and does not further encroach within a water quality
protection area or buffer and there is no increased risk to life or property as
a result of the action. As applicable, new facilities must comply with section
11-3-33 (erosion control) of this chapter and subsection
11-7-10E (mitigation for impacts) of this title. Operation and maintenance
includes minor landscaping, native plant landscaping, buffer restoration, bank
stabilization with native plant landscaping and vegetation management, provided
that such management actions are part of regular and ongoing maintenance and do
not expand farther into the water quality protection area or buffer.
         c.   Agricultural activities, as defined in Montana Code Annotated 76-
2-902. This includes timber harvesting, thinning, and regeneration on land
without residential structures. Timber harvesting on forestlands proposed for
conversion to other uses must be in compliance with Montana Code Annotated 77-
5-301 - 307, the Montana streamside management zone law. Violations of Montana
Code Annotated 77-5-301 - 307 must be remediated to the satisfaction of the
Montana department of natural resources and conservation prior to submittal of
development permits under this section.
         d.   Educational and research activities that do not degrade the
functions and values of a water quality protection area or buffer, and
conservation or restoration activities to protect or restore these functions
and values.
         e.   Development of a lot contained within a preliminary plat or
planned unit development approved by the Whitefish city council prior to April
2, 2008, pursuant to the approved building site plan or building pad, if the
building site plan or building pad are specifically located on the lot, but
only to the extent that such development is located within the building site
plan or building pad. The zoning administrator may, on a case by case basis,
approve minor modifications to the building site plan or building pad. However,
this exemption does not exempt a property owner from the requirements of
section 11-3-33 of this chapter.
      2.   Relationship to Other Regulations:
         a.   These water quality protection regulations apply as an overlay
and in addition to zoning and other regulations adopted by the city.
         b.   Any individual water quality protection area adjoined by another
type of water quality protection area will have the buffer and meet the
requirements providing the most protection to the water quality protection
areas involved. When any provision of this section or any existing regulation,
easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflicts with this section, that which
provides more protection to the water quality protection areas apply.
         c.   The city will not approve any permit or otherwise issue any
authorization to alter the condition of any land, water, or vegetation, or to
construct or alter any structure or improvement in, over, or on a water quality
protection area or associated buffer, without first ensuring compliance with
the requirements of this section.
         d.   Compliance with the provisions of this section does not
constitute compliance with other federal, state, and local regulations and
permits that may be required, nor does it relieve an applicant from the duty to
avoid harm to neighboring or downstream properties or create a duty to
neighboring or downstream properties on the part of the city. The applicant is
responsible for complying with these other requirements and duties, apart from
the process established in this section.
      3.   Administrative Rules: Applicable departments within the city are
authorized to adopt such administrative rules and regulations as are necessary
and appropriate to implement this section and to prepare and require the use of
such forms as are necessary for its administration.
      4.   Permitting: Development within two hundred feet (200') of a water
quality protection area that is not exempt under subsection B1 of this section
must obtain a permit prior to the start of any proposed activity pursuant to
section
11-7-10 of this title.
      5.   Reasonable Use Exception: When the requirements of this section, or
these requirements in combination with zoning and other development standards,
would render a legally existing lot or parcel of record incapable of providing
any legal and reasonable use, as defined in this subsection, a reasonable use
exception (RUE) will be issued by the director if the criteria in this
subsection are met. A “legal and reasonable use” is defined as one allowed by
the applicable zoning district and consistent with similar uses in the same
general area, taking into account the most recent construction trends in the
general area. For dwelling units, a legal and reasonable use may disturb no
more than five thousand (5,000) square feet or fifteen percent (15%) of the
parcel, whichever is greater, by structures or other land alteration, including
grading, utility installations and landscaping, but not including the area used
for an on site sewage disposal system.
         a.   An application for a reasonable use exception must be made to the
city and must include a water quality protection area identification form;
water quality protection area report or geotechnical letter, as applicable; and
any other related project documents, such as permit applications to other
agencies. The application must document what can be developed on the property
in compliance with the strict provisions of this section and other zoning and
development standards, and must explain why this would not permit any
reasonable use of the property. It must include the date the applicant
purchased the property or otherwise obtained the right to develop or use it,
and restrictions or conditions on use or development in existence on that date.
The burden of proof is on the applicant to bring forth evidence in support of
the application and to provide sufficient information on which any decision has
to be made on the application.
         b.   Following receipt of a complete and accurate submittal, within
thirty (30) days the director will grant or deny a request for an RUE in
writing with findings of fact pursuant to the determinations set forth in
subsection B5c of this section.
         c.   In reviewing applications for RUEs, the director shall determine
that all of the following criteria are met:
            (1)   The lot, tract, or parcel is a legal lot of record.
            (2)   All reasonable use of the property is preempted under the
strict provisions of this section, or the combination of this section and
zoning and development standards, for reasons other than actions by the
applicant after the effective date hereof.
            (3)   There are no reasonable development alternatives readily
available to the applicant that meet the standards of these regulations.
            (4)   The RUE does not pose a threat of significant injury to
occupiers of the land, other properties, or the natural resources protected by
this section.
            (5)   Impacts associated with the RUE are the minimum necessary to
allow for reasonable use of the property, and will be reasonably and
effectively mitigated through conditions of approval.
         d.   An RUE will not be approved solely to improve views and vistas or
proximity to amenities when viable alternatives exist. Preference will be given
to modifying or waiving development standards that do not impact water quality
protection areas or the safety of the occupiers of the land or other
properties.
         e.   Approval or denial of any RUE may be appealed to the community
development board pursuant to section
11-7-5 of this title. An approved RUE must be recorded with the Flathead County
clerk and recorder prior to any construction activity. The RUE is valid for
three (3) years and the director may approve up to two (2) 1-year extensions,
provided the applicant can demonstrate progress is being made on the project.
If construction has not begun during the approval period, the RUE will expire.
      6.   Variances: A variance from the requirements of this section may be
authorized through a planned unit development or a neighborhood plan or, in
other cases, by the director, in conjunction with the public works department,
if the applicant provides clear and compelling evidence that the result would
better protect or restore the functions and values of affected water quality
protection areas than would application of standard criteria or in the case
where these regulations conflict with state or federal regulations.
      7.   Public Agencies And Utilities: If the application of this section
would prohibit a development proposal by a public agency or public utility, the
agency or utility may apply for a reasonable use exception, which must follow
the procedures and criteria of subsection B5 of this section, as applicable,
and demonstrate that application of this section would otherwise unreasonably
restrict the ability to provide services to the public.
      8.   Mapping: The city must maintain planning level maps indicating the
best available information as to the location of water quality protection
areas. In addition to these maps, the following may be used as a guide for
locating water quality protection areas:
         a.   Topographic maps published by the U.S. geological survey;
         b.   Flood insurance rate maps published by the federal emergency
management agency;
         c.   Surficial geologic map of the upper Flathead River Valley
(Kalispell Valley) area, Flathead County, northwestern Montana, published by
the Montana bureau of mines and geology;
         d.   Soil survey of the upper Flathead Valley area, Montana, published
by the U.S. soil conservation service; and
         e.   Soil survey of Flathead National Forest area, published by the
U.S. forest service and the natural resource conservation service, in
cooperation with Montana agricultural experiment station.
         f.   Topographic mapping through the Flathead Basin mapping project,
2009, maintained by Montana natural resource information system.
      All of these sources are to be used for planning purposes by the city,
project applicants and property owners, but may be superseded by new data and
do not eliminate the need for on site evaluation for the presence of water
quality protection areas.
      9.   Density Calculation: Density must be calculated based on the gross
acreage of the site. Land restricted from development within water quality
protection areas or their buffers may be used to meet requirements for open
space other than active recreation under section
12-4-11 of this code. Where development is partly prohibited due to the
presence of water quality protection areas, as defined in this section, an
applicant may be permitted to transfer up to one hundred percent (100%) of the
density attributable to the undevelopable area of the property to another
portion of the same property, where the director finds this is consistent with
the city’s growth policy and that the following standards are met:
         a.   The increased density does not significantly harm the water
quality protection areas on site or on adjacent properties;
         b.   The increased density does not significantly harm wildlife
habitat, including migration corridors;
         c.   The increased density does not significantly harm the character
and qualities of the existing neighborhood; and
         d.   Where applicable, the increased density makes efficient use of
infill property.
      Where the above standards are met, the normal standards of the underlying
zoning district for minimum lot size, setbacks, and lot coverage may be
modified to accommodate the increased density.
      10.   Enforcement And Penalties:
         a.   Reasonable access to the site will be provided to the city for
the purpose of inspections during any proposal review, restoration, emergency
action, or monitoring period. The director must present proper credentials and
make a reasonable effort to contact any property owner before entering onto
private property. Except in emergencies or when the director determines there
may be an imminent threat to environmental resources, such reasonable effort
includes written notice by certified letter seven (7) days in advance of a
planned site inspection.
         b.   When a water quality protection area or its buffer has been
altered in violation of this section, all ongoing development work must stop
and the water quality protection area or buffer shall be restored. The city has
the authority to issue a stop work order to cease all ongoing development work,
and order restoration, rehabilitation, or replacement measures at the owner’s
or other responsible party’s expense to compensate for violation of provisions
of this section. All development work must remain stopped until a restoration
plan is prepared and approved by the city.
         c.   If development work continues, the city has the authority to seek
all legal and equitable relief necessary to enforce this section. Restoration
plans shall be prepared by a qualified professional using the best available
science and shall describe how the actions proposed meet the minimum
requirements described in subsection B10d of this section. As necessary, the
director can, at the violator’s expense, seek expert advice in determining the
adequacy of the plan. Inadequate plans will be returned to the applicant or
violator for revision and resubmittal.
         d.   At a minimum, performance standards for restoration are as
follows:
            (1)   For alterations to critical stormwater conveyances, or
streams, wetlands, and lakes and their buffers, restoration must return the
affected environment to the historic conditions or the conditions existing at
the time of the initiation of the project; if that is infeasible, restoration
must replace, enhance, or provide substitute resources or environments,
following the criteria for mitigation in subsection
11-7-10D of this title, where applicable.
            (2)   For alterations to steep or unstable slopes, the following
minimum performance standards must be met for restoration:
               (A)   The hazard must be reduced to a level equal to, or less
than, the predevelopment hazard;
               (B)   Any risk to public safety or other water quality
protection areas resulting from the alteration must be eliminated or minimized;
and
               (C)   To the extent feasible, the hazard area and buffers must
be replanted with native vegetation sufficient to minimize the hazard.
         e.   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
section will be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day or portion of a day during
which a violation of this section is committed or continued will constitute a
separate offense. Any development carried out contrary to the provisions of
this section will constitute a public nuisance and may be enjoined as provided
by the statutes of the state of Montana. The city may levy civil penalties
against any person, party, firm, corporation, or other legal entity for
violation of any of the provisions of this section. The civil penalty will be
assessed at a maximum rate of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day per
violation.
   C.   Stream, Lake and Wetland Buffers and Setbacks:
      1.   Standard Buffers And Setbacks: A buffer is an area of land adjacent
to a lake, wetland or stream, including the Whitefish River intended to protect
the water quality area, while a setback is a smaller area of land adjacent to
the buffer intended to protect buffers from human disturbance where structures
are prohibited and only limited alterations are allowed.
   Except where modified through a reasonable use exception under subsection B5
of this section or a variance under subsection B6 of this section, buffers and
setbacks for streams, wetlands, and lakes are hereby established as follows.
All buffers include the entire floodplain. Widths will be measured on the
horizontal plane perpendicular to the edge of the water quality protection
area. Developments in compliance with buffer and setback requirements or
allowed uses in this section will not be required to submit a water quality
protection area report unless specifically noted below.
 
Waterbody               Buffer                       Setback
Whitefish River         75' or top of bank,          Variable, but no less than
Subsection C1a of this  whichever is greater         20'
section
Other perennial streams 100' with 25' increase/
Subsection C1b of this  decrease for high/low        10'
section                 intensity land use
Intermittent streams
Subsection C1c of this  50'                          10'
section
Wetlands                100', with 25' increase/
Subsection C1d of this  decrease for high/low        10'
section                 intensity land use
Whitefish Lake          20' with water quality plan
Subsection C1f of this  to meet performance standard 10'
section                 of 75' buffer
Other lakes
Subsection C1g of this  75'                          10'
section
 
         a.   Whitefish River: The buffer is the top of bank (where evident) or
seventy five feet (75') from the ordinary high water mark, whichever is
greater. If there is an associated wetland along the river, the seventy five
feet (75') is measured from the edge of the wetland. If any structure is
proposed within two hundred feet (200') of the buffer on a property that abuts
the river, a geotechnical letter consistent with subsection D of this section
shall be required. Such an analysis may also be required if the director of
public works determines, based on field observation and in consultation with
the applicant, that a proposed structure beyond this setback may be damaged by
slope failure, slumping or other geologic instability, or that it may
contribute to such instability on other properties. Unless an approved
geotechnical letter concludes a larger setback is necessary, the setback must
equal the rear yard setback in the applicable zone, but in no case will it be
less than twenty feet (20').
         b.   All Other Perennial Reaches of Streams: All other perennial
reaches of streams, including, but not limited to, Beaver, Cow, Eagle, Haskill,
Hellroaring, Lazy, Smith, Swift, Viking, and Walker Creeks and their
tributaries: The buffer must extend one hundred feet (100') from the ordinary
high water mark, except that the buffer for Second Creek upstream of the city’s
water supply intake must be two hundred feet (200'). These buffers shall be
increased by twenty five feet (25') for multi-family, industrial and commercial
development; they will be reduced by twenty five feet (25') for passive
recreational uses such as parks or for low density residential development on
lots 2.5 acres or greater and cannot be subdivided into lots less than 2.5
acres. There will be no permitted reduction in the buffers for Second Creek.
The setback will be ten feet (10'), with no encroachment on the buffer allowed.
         c.   All Intermittent Streams: The buffer must extend fifty feet (50')
from the ordinary high water mark. The setback will be ten feet (10'), with no
encroachment on the buffer allowed.
         d.   Wetlands: For single-family residential development, the buffer
must be one hundred feet (100') for all wetlands not exempted under subsection
C1e of this section. These buffers will be increased by twenty five feet (25')
for multi-family, industrial, and commercial development; they will be reduced
by twenty five feet (25') for passive recreational uses such as parks or for
low density residential development on lots 2.5 acres or greater and cannot be
subdivided into lots less than 2.5 acres. The setback will be ten feet (10'),
with no encroachment on the buffer allowed.
         e.   Exempt Wetlands: All isolated wetlands rated as category III or
category IV using the Montana wetland assessment method, as developed and
updated by the Montana department of transportation, and that are less than one
thousand (1,000) square feet shall be exempt from these regulations. All such
wetlands between one thousand (1,000) square feet and ten thousand (10,000)
square feet shall have no buffer and setback restrictions and may be filled or
otherwise degraded, if impacts are fully mitigated based on section 11-7-10 of
this title. Existing storm ponds that were former wetlands, provided a fifteen
foot (15') setback is maintained from the edge of the pond, are exempt.
         f.   Whitefish Lake: The buffer and setback will be regulated under
title 13 of this code. All development of property within seventy five feet
(75') of the lake must submit a water quality protection plan developed by a
qualified professional, which must make recommendations regarding stormwater
management, impervious surface, grading and filling, and vegetation protection
and restoration so that the estimated discharge of sediment, nutrients, and
other pollutants to the lake during and after construction would be no greater
than if the site had a seventy five foot (75') buffer, using a methodology
approved by the director of public works. This plan may reference or
incorporate other documentation required by the city. Requirements for a water
quality plan may be waived by the public works director for minor disturbances.
         g.   All Other Lake Shorelines That Are Not Wetlands: The buffer is
seventy five feet (75') from the mean annual high water elevation. The setback
is ten feet (10'), with no encroachment on the buffer allowed.
      2.   Restriction on Subdividing: Land located wholly within a wetland or
its buffer may not be subdivided. Land located partially within a wetland or
its buffer may be divided provided that each resulting lot has sufficient
buildable area outside of, and will not affect, the wetland or its buffer.
      3.   Restoration Incentive: Except for Whitefish Lake, buffer widths may
be reduced up to twenty five percent (25%) if the buffer is restored or
enhanced from a preproject condition that is disturbed (e.g., dominated by
invasive species), so that functions of the postproject buffer are equal or
greater. For single-family homes on existing lots of record, the restoration
plan must be developed by a qualified professional for the relevant water
quality protection area and must be approved by the director. For all other
development, the restoration plan must also meet requirements in section
11-7-10 of this title.
      4.   Buffer Averaging: Except for Whitefish Lake, the director has the
authority to average buffer widths on a case by case basis, where a qualified
professional demonstrates to the director’s satisfaction that all of the
following criteria are met:
         a.   The total area contained in the buffer after averaging is no less
than that contained within the buffer prior to averaging;
         b.   Decreases in width are generally located where riparian functions
may be less sensitive to adjacent land uses, and increases are generally
located where riparian functions may be more sensitive to adjacent land uses,
to achieve no net loss or a net gain in functions; and
         c.   The averaged buffer, at its narrowest point, shall never be less
than fifty percent (50%) of the standard width or fifty feet (50') for the
Whitefish River.
      5.   Allowed Activities in Buffers: The director may permit the following
uses within a stream, wetland, or lake buffer, provided they meet the standards
set forth below and are not prohibited by any other applicable law. Certain
allowed activities require a water quality protection plan approval. Activities
along perennial streams, including the Whitefish River, may also require review
and approval from the Flathead conservation district:
         a.   Authorized Activities: For lake buffers, activities specifically
authorized under title 13, “Lake And Lakeshore Protection Regulations”, of this
code.
         b.   Accessory Structures: Detached unoccupied accessory structures,
provided they are no greater than one hundred and twenty (120) square feet,
have all required permits including a floodplain permit and have impacts
mitigated by planting an area with native vegetation at least equal in size to
the area disturbed by the structure, preferably in the same buffer.
         c.   Walkways and Trails: Walkways and trails, provided pathways
minimize adverse impacts on water quality. As applicable, trails must comply
with section
11-3-33 (erosion control) of this chapter and section
11-7-10 (mitigation for impacts) of this title. Paths should be designed using
the best management practices and obtain permits when necessary. Unless
required by the Americans with disabilities act or otherwise approved in the
city’s adopted master trails plan, they should generally be parallel to the
perimeter of the water body, located in the outer twenty five percent (25%) of
the buffer area, avoid removal of mature trees, and be limited to pervious
surfaces no more than four feet (4') in width. City paths/trails also require
approval of a water quality protection permit. A walking path to a lake,
stream, or wetland may be permitted for single-family homes on existing lots of
record provided impacts are mitigated based on recommendations by a qualified
professional for the relevant water quality protection area, which must be
approved by the director. For all other developments, mitigation for such a
path must also meet requirements in section
11-7-10 of this title.
         d.   Pesticides and Fertilizers: Pesticides and fertilizers may be
applied in buffers under the following conditions:
            (1)   Pesticides must be applied according to the manufacturer’s
label. There are specific materials labeled for appropriate applications in
aquatic, ditch bank/edge areas and upland environments. All others are
prohibited. The applicator must ensure that the pesticide application is
applied in accordance with the restrictions of the label for its intended use,
targeted vegetation and/or area being treated.
            (2)   No fertilizer will be applied to any buffer unless suggested
as part of a buffer enhancement/mitigation plan. Such plan must provide soils
sample analysis indicating a need for the fertilizer and the composition of
macronutrients (N, P, K), a schedule of application and measures to ensure the
fertilizer does not reach adjacent water bodies. Fertilizer applied must be no
more than is needed for plant uptake.
         e.   Forest Management: Tree removal within the buffer area for the
following requires the submittal of a tree removal plan to the zoning
administrator for review and approval prior to removing trees:
            (1)   Tree removal for the health of the stand, including fuel
reduction, habitat improvement, removal of diseased wood, and thinning for
acceleration of multi-age, multi-story characteristics. Trees planted by the
current property owner may be removed at the sole discretion of that property
owner and need not be replaced unless they were required as mitigation or
through an enforcement action under this section.
            (2)   Tree removal for limited view enhancement, meaning filtered
views and/or view corridors from key vantage points, such as decks, balconies,
and picture windows, achieved by pruning or limbing or, as a last resort,
limited tree removal. Trees removed must be replaced with additional trees at
least three inches (3") in trunk diameter as measured eight inches (8") above
ground level, unless installation of such trees would create erosion or slope
stability hazards that cannot be adequately controlled or mitigated. Conifers
removed must be replaced by conifers. Replacement trees and shrubs shall be
located in the same general area of the site as the trees removed, to the
extent consistent with purposes for removal, and shall be sufficient in number
to provide a comparable area of root coverage, once established.
         f.   Stream Crossings: Stream crossings, if necessary to provide
access to property and if impacts are fully mitigated consistent with an
approved water quality protection areas report.
         g.   Stormwater Management Facilities: Stormwater management
facilities may be allowed within the outer twenty five percent (25%) of
buffers, provided that:
            (1)   No other location with less impact is feasible; and
            (2)   Mitigation for impacts is provided to achieve no net loss or
a net gain in functions.
         h.   Connection Lines To Utilities: Connection lines to utilities, if
required by the city or utility, with a restoration plan for disturbed soils
and vegetation approved by the director.
         i.   Stream Bank Stabilization: Bioengineering or soft armoring
techniques for stream bank stabilization is preferred.
      6.   Allowed Activities In Setbacks: In addition to activities identified
in subsection C5 of this section, the following uses are allowed in a stream,
wetland, or lake setback, provided they are not prohibited by any other
applicable law:
         a.   Activities specifically authorized within lake setbacks under
section
11-3-27 of this chapter.
         b.   Recreational structures such as play apparatus or patios at grade
and associated safety devices (railings, steps, etc.).
         c.   Vehicular access for maintenance or essential emergency services.
         d.   Lawns, gardens, and the application of associated fertilizers,
herbicides, and pesticides are allowed.
         e.   Incidental outdoor storage of nonhazardous materials.
         f.   Tree removal is not restricted, but tree retention and management
are highly encouraged, as is the planting of native trees.
   D.   Slopes and Geologic Instability: If a project is proposed on a lot or
parcel with slopes greater than ten percent (10%) and is within two hundred
feet (200') of a lake, wetland or intermittent or perennial stream, the
applicant must submit a geotechnical letter, as described below.
      1.   Geotechnical Letter:
         a.   Assessment of Site Conditions: The letter shall include an
assessment of the existing geologic and geotechnical site conditions, including
surface water runoff, groundwater, soil types, erosion, and slope stability.
         b.   Conclusions and Recommendations: The qualified professional must
prepare conclusions and recommendations for the proposed development and any
mitigation necessary to address existing site conditions that may need to be
modified due to the proposed development.
         c.   Maintenance Responsibility: Perpetual maintenance of all
stabilization measures and their design effectiveness is the express
responsibility of the property owner and all heirs and assigns. Failure to
maintain these measures and their design effectiveness shall constitute a
violation of this section pursuant to section 11-7-13 of this title.
      2.   Exemption: For the following residential development applications
within two hundred feet (200') of a lake, wetland or stream, the director may
waive the requirements of this subsection:
         a.   An addition less than two hundred (200) square feet in size.
         b.   Detached unoccupied auxiliary buildings such as garages and sheds
six hundred (600) square feet or less.
         c.   Decks attached to structures where no additional load bearing
weight is added to an adjacent slope.
         d.   Other small or minor disturbances, as determined by the director.
   E.   Critical Stormwater Conveyances:
      1.   Restricted Area: No building, structure, excavation, filling, or
development of any kind, and no terrain disturbance that would interfere with
stormwater flow will be allowed within critical stormwater conveyances, as
defined by this section, unless otherwise approved through a reasonable use
exception under subsection B5 of this section, a variance under subsection B6
of this section, or by the director of public works as part of a detailed
drainage study.
      2.   Applicability: This section applies only to identified critical
stormwater conveyances on the city’s most current maps, or to critical
stormwater conveyances identified by the director of public works based on
field observation, with the precise location of the conveyance to be determined
on a site by site basis, as described in this subsection E.
      3.   Location: Precise location of critical stormwater conveyance
boundaries will be determined on a site by site basis by the director of public
works based on estimated flows for a 25-year storm (having a 4 percent chance
of occurring in any given year), in consultation with the property owner and/or
project proponent and reviewing the most recent city stormwater conveyance
mapping, within thirty (30) days of a request by the property owner. The
property owner may hire a qualified professional to establish the precise
location of the boundaries and submit the determination for the city’s review
and approval.
      4.   Setback: New structures or terrain disturbance that would interfere
with stormwater flow are also prohibited within fifteen feet (15') of
designated critical stormwater conveyances. Patios, driveways, and landscaping
that would not significantly interfere with stormwater flow are allowed.
      5.   Property Access: Structures necessary for vehicle access are allowed
within critical stormwater conveyances and setback areas if they do not reduce
conveyance capacity.
      6.   Pesticide and Fertilizer Application:
         a.   Pesticides must be applied according to the manufacturer’s label.
There are specific materials labeled for use that are appropriate applications
in aquatic, ditch bank/edge areas and upland environments. All others are
prohibited. The applicator must ensure the pesticide application is applied in
accordance with the restrictions of the label for its intended use, targeted
vegetation and/or area being treated.
         b.   Fertilizer applied must be no more than is needed for plant
uptake, taking into account the nutrient content of the soils.
      7.   Restricted Activities: Removal and/or disturbance of existing ground
vegetation and trees within critical stormwater conveyances, and filling and
excavation of areas adjacent to critical stormwater conveyances, must not be
conducted in such a manner as to negatively impact the conveyance through
additional runoff, erosion, or sedimentation. No storage or vehicle parking of
any kind will be allowed within a critical stormwater conveyance.
(Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023; Ord. 24-07, 7-1-2024)
11-3-30: PERSONAL SERVICES:
Conditional use criteria for personal services shall be as follows:
   A.   When specified as a conditional use, the criteria in section
11-7-8 of this title shall be applied; provided, however, if the use involves
an existing structure, an administrative conditional use permit, as provided in
subsection
11-7-8M of this title, shall be obtained. Such services with more than two (2)
chairs or stations proposed for an existing structure are not eligible for an
administrative permit process.
   B.   The applicant shall meet the following design standards:
      1.   Total signage shall be as provided in
chapter 5 of this title.
      2.   All parking shall be provided off street according to the sum of the
uses on a particular property as follows:
         a.   Two (2) spaces per residential unit.
         b.   One space per employee per maximum shift, excluding resident
family members.
         c.   One space for each client, customer or visitor who will be
present or arriving during the period of daily activity with a minimum of two
(2) spaces required per chair or station.
         d.   In no case shall required parking be less than that required in
chapter 6 of this title under professional offices.
      3.   All landscaping and parking lot improvements, including asphalt/
concrete work, shall be completed prior to occupancy; provided, however, should
occupancy occur between November and April, the owner/applicant may delay
landscaping and parking lot/driveway hard surfacing until the following May 15
to avoid inclement weather.
      4.   Any exterior modifications to the building shall be done in a mode
architecturally compatible to and in scale with buildings in the adjacent
residential neighborhood. Exterior modifications shall not exceed paint,
siding, roofing and exterior refurbishment.
   C.   With the exception of one such item, guides and outfitters cannot
openly store equipment such as boats, bikes, rafts, and horse trailers. (Ord.
12-01, 1-17-2012)
11-3-31: MUSIC AND DANCE SCHOOLS AND STUDIOS:
Conditional use criteria for music and dance schools and studios shall be as
follows:
   A.   The facility shall adhere to all occupancy, ADA, international building
code, and egress requirements.
   B.   If necessary, prior to operation the facility shall be insulated with
sound dampening materials to mitigate noise impacts to adjacent properties.
   C.   Parking shall be one space for every twenty five (25) students present
at a given time on a typical day, plus one space for each employee and teacher
on a maximum shift. If a performance/assembly area is present, an additional
one space per eight (8) seats plus one space for each one hundred (100) square
feet of space without seats shall be provided. Shared parking opportunities
shall be evaluated on a case by case basis.
   D.   A safe student pick up and drop off zone shall be provided where
possible with twenty feet (20') of signed loading area for each fifteen (15)
students on site during lessons.
   E.   All landscaping and parking lot improvements shall be completed prior
to occupancy unless occupancy occurs between November and April, in which case
the owner/occupant may delay landscaping and hard surfacing until May 15 to
avoid inclement weather.
   F.   Access to the facility from an alley rather than the collector street
may be allowed with city council approval.
   G.   Signage requirements shall adhere to residential district requirements
(see section
11-5-6-4 of this title).
   H.   New buildings and exterior modifications to existing buildings shall
maintain the residential character of the adjacent neighborhood by being
architecturally compatible with and in scale with nearby buildings. (Ord. 09-
09, 8-3-2009)
11-3-32: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STORAGE:
Commercial storage of recreational vehicles, including boats, shall comply with
the following standards:
   A.   Open or enclosed storage areas shall meet primary setbacks of the
underlying zone and in no case shall the front yard setback be less than twenty
feet (20'). When the storage area is located adjacent to a residential district
or use, the minimum setback shall be twenty feet (20').
   B.   Screening of open or enclosed storage areas shall meet the site
obscuring fencing, subject to the requirements in subsection
11-3-11A of this chapter, and landscaping buffer requirements of section
11-4-8 of this title. Front yard fencing shall be set back a minimum of twenty
feet (20').
   C.   Paving of storage areas shall only be required when the storage area,
drive lanes and parking areas are five thousand (5,000) square feet or more.
All entrances from a public or private street to the storage areas shall be
paved to a depth of no less than forty feet (40') to ensure materials are not
tracked onto streets. All unpaved parking areas shall be maintained in a dust
free surface and meet the load requirements of the Whitefish fire marshal.
   D.   All enclosed storage facilities shall receive architectural review
approval prior to submitting an application for a building permit. All enclosed
facilities shall meet the building height limits in subsection
11-3-2B of this chapter for an accessory structure. (Ord. 09-05, 4-6-2009)
11-3-33: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL:
   A.   Erosion Control Plan Implementation And Compliance: Erosion and
sediment control plans are required for all development and redevelopment
activities that require a building permit, create more than two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet of new impervious surface area, result in more than
one-fourth (1/4) acre being cleared and graded, or that clears or grades land
within one hundred feet (100') of a stream, lake, or wetland. An erosion and
sedimentation control plan must be submitted to the Public Works Department at
least thirty (30) days before land disturbance begins.
   B.   Site Sediment Control During Construction: Erosion control measures
that are in compliance with an approved erosion control plan must be in place
prior to the start of construction or site disturbance. Installation and
maintenance of erosion control devices and practices must be sufficient to
retain sediment within the boundaries of the site. It shall be the duty of each
party in control thereof to prevent soil, mud, rock or debris from such real
property being deposited or otherwise transported onto streets, alleys, storm
drains, utility facilities, rights- of-way, easements or receiving waters of
the City. The erosion and sediment control barriers shall not be removed until
all roadways have been paved and a permanent and stable vegetation cover has
been established. (Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012)
11-3-34:  MARIJUANA FACILITIES:
Marijuana sales, manufacturing, testing, and cultivation facilities, as allowed
and defined under Montana State law, must comply with the following standards:
   A.   All permitted or conditionally permitted marijuana facilities must be
sited and operated in full compliance with Montana law as well as all zoning
and building code requirements, parking standards, and any conditions of
approval. Marijuana facilities may not be operated as a home occupation.
   B.   No marijuana facility is permitted from locales within 500' of a
building used exclusively as a church or public school. This distance must be
measured in a straight line from the center of the nearest public entrance of
the place of worship or school to the nearest public entrance of the marijuana
facility. A lawfully operating facility shall not be rendered in violation of
these provisions by the subsequent location of a church or public school or by
amendments to this ordinance. Additionally, no marijuana facility shall be
located on Spokane Avenue between Railway Street and East Second Street.
   C.   No marijuana dispensary may be located within 500' of another marijuana
dispensary. This distance must be measured in a straight line from the center
of the nearest public entrances.
   D.   Marijuana facilities must have a building façade that visually blends
in with the design, style, and appearance of adjacent storefronts, including
signage, security measures, and lighting, and must be reviewed and approved by
the Architectural Review Committee when required.
   E.   Window signs on marijuana dispensaries are limited to a maximum window
sign coverage of 20% of the window area, and otherwise no window shall be
covered or made opaque in any way. No security bars, metal screens, grates, or
other visible security devices other than door locks and recessed or otherwise
discrete security cameras are permitted on the storefront exterior unless
required by State law.
   F.   If the applicant is not the property owner, a notarized authorization
executed by the property owner authorizing and consenting to the proposed use
of the property as a marijuana facility is required.
   G.   With the exception of State licensed outdoor cultivation allowed where
agricultural uses are permitted, marijuana cultivation must be located within
one or more completely enclosed, secure buildings with rigid walls, a roof, and
secure doors.
   H.   Marijuana facilities must at all times be operated in such a way as to
ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the public and workers. Marijuana
facilities must not create a public nuisance or adversely affect the health or
safety of the nearby residents, businesses, or its employees by creating dust,
glare, light pollution, heat, noise, noxious gasses, odor, vibration, unsafe
conditions or other impacts, or be hazardous due to the use or storage of
materials, processes, products, and runoff of water, pesticides or wastes.
   I.   Marijuana cultivation, manufacturing, and testing facilities must be
sited and operated in a manner that prevents marijuana odors from being
detected offsite. A sufficient odor absorbing ventilation and exhaust system
utilizing negative pressure inside the building must be used so odor generated
distinctive to its operation cannot be detected outside the facility or
anywhere on adjacent property or public rights-way, nor in interior common area
walkways, hallways, foyers, lobby areas or other areas available for use by
common tenants or the visiting public. An odor control plan must be submitted
as part of any permit application.
   J.   All marijuana facilities must have sufficient security systems,
including surveillance cameras, alarm systems on doors and windows, deadbolt
locked exterior doors, and safes to store cash and retail marijuana products
when closed.
   K.   Marijuana remnants and byproducts must be secured and properly disposed
of and not be placed within the facility's exterior refuse containers at any
business operating pursuant to this section unless rendered unusable. Outdoor
storage of marijuana merchandise, raw materials, or other marijuana materials
associated with the production of marijuana is prohibited.
   L.   All signage must meet state licensing requirements as well as the Sign
Regulations found in section 11-5 of this Ordinance. (Ord. 12-07, 4-16-2012;
amd. Ord. 21-17, 12-6-2021; Ord. 22-17, 12-19-2022; Ord. 23-12, 8-7-2023)
11-3-35:  SHORT-TERM RENTAL STANDARDS:
Certain zoning districts such as the WB-3, Resort Residential and Resort
Business Districts permit paid short term residential rental accommodation
within a legal residential unit. These standards do not apply to bed and
breakfasts, hostels, hotels or motels. Short-term rentals are not compatible
with other residential areas as there are potential traffic and noise impacts,
as well as the diminished availability of long term rental and affordable
housing units.
   A.   Performance Standards:
      1.   Short-term rentals. Short term rentals, as defined in section
11-9-2 of this title, are allowed in applicable zoning districts provided the
following criteria are met. Property owners of each rented unit must:
         a.   Hold a valid short term rental registration and business license
with the City of Whitefish;
         b.   Conform to the land use provisions of this title and other
applicable regulations;
         c.   Not exceed the allowable dwelling unit density of the underlying
zoning district;
         d.   Meet the standards for off street parking found in chapter 6 of
this title;
         e.   Be inspected by the Fire Marshal to ensure it meets current
safety standards once the application is deemed complete and annually
thereafter;
         f.   Provide proof of application for a State of Montana public
accommodation license for a tourist home. This license is administered by the
Flathead City-County Health Department;
         g.   Report and remit Resort Tax in conformance with the Resort Tax
requirements of title 3, chapter 3, "Resort Tax", of this Code;
         h.   Provide a name and phone number of a local contact person
responsible for handling any problems that may arise with the property, if not
a full-time resident;
         i.   Post an emergency contact notice visible from outside the front
door with the owner's name and phone number (or local contact if absentee per
subsection A8 A-1-h of this section) and the property's City of Whitefish
shortterm rental registration number;
         j.   Keep the property and buildings maintained and continue to
provide trash collection services with approved animal resistant containers if
determined by the city to be available;
         k.   Not display any outside signage advertising the short term
rental;
         l.   Provide verification the property is appropriately registered and
meets requirements for State Bed Tax purposes; and
         m.   The City's short term rental registration number, and hosting
site property ID must be listed on any print, internet site, or other medium
where the short term rental is marketed or booked.
   B.   Violations: A violation of any of the performance standards in
subsection A of this section, as well as repeated citations of disturbing the
peace related to the property may result in suspension and possible revocation
of the business license and short term rental registration, as well as possible
enforcement action as outlined in this subsection. Operating a short term
rental outside of an allowed district or without meeting all the standards
listed above is a violation of this Code and shall be deemed a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Operating a short-term rental outside of an allowed
district or without meeting all the standards listed above shall also be deemed
a municipal infraction and subject to a three hundred dollars ($300) fine for
the first violation and a five hundred dollars ($500) fine for each subsequent
violation. Each day that a violation remains shall constitute a separate
violation. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat the
violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction or vice versa.
Advertising the availability of a short term rental unit that is either not in
compliance with these standards or is outside one of the zoning districts that
permit short term rentals shall be evidence of a violation and may incur
enforcement remedies against the property owner, property manager, and/or
listing agent. Advertising creates the following presumptions:
      1.   That the property owner, property manager, and/or listing agent knew
the standards and zoning; and
      2.   That the operator or manager knew the duty to collect, report, and
remit Resort Taxes due under title 3, chapter 3 of this Code.
The city will also notify the Flathead County Health Department and State of
Montana regarding any illegal rentals. This section does not prohibit the city
from seeking any available remedy in law or equity to enforce the standards set
forth herein. (Ord. 18-06, 2-20-2018; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2022; Ord. 22-05, 4-
4-2022)
11-3-36: MANUFACTURED HOME PARK STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Requirements:
      1.   All lots for manufactured home spaces in a manufactured home park
shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Manufactured home lots shall be arranged to permit the safe and
practical placement and removal of manufactured homes.
         b.   The minimum lot width shall not be less than fifty feet (50').
   B.   Minimum Standards:
      1.   Setbacks From Boundaries: All manufactured homes shall be located at
least twenty five feet (25') from any property boundary line abutting upon a
public street or highway right-of- way and at least fifteen feet (15') from the
other outer boundaries of the park.
      2.   Setbacks From Streets: All buildings, structures and manufactured
homes shall be located at least ten feet (10') from the street providing access
to it.
      3.   Distance Between Manufactured Homes: Neither manufactured home nor
its attached structures, such as awnings or carports, shall be located within
twenty feet (20') of any other manufactured home or its attached structures.
      4.   Detached Accessory Structures: No detached structure, such as a
storage shed, shall be located within five feet (5') of any manufactured home
or its attached structures.
      5.   Lot Coverage: A manufactured home shall not occupy more than one-
third (1/3) of the lot area. The total area occupied by a manufactured home and
its roofed accessory buildings and structures shall not exceed two-thirds (2/3)
of the area of the lot.
      6.   Parking Spaces Required: A minimum of two (2) parking spaces shall
be provided for each manufactured home lot. In addition, guest parking at the
ratio of one space for each five (5) lots and vehicle storage parking at the
ratio of one space per each ten (10) lots shall be provided. Parking dimensions
shall meet the zoning standards for parking.
   C.   Marking Of Manufactured Home Lots: The limits of each manufactured home
lot shall be clearly marked on the ground by permanent flush stakes, markers or
other suitable means. Location of lot limits on the ground shall be the same as
shown on the approved plans.
   D.   Manufactured Homes To Be Skirted: Each manufactured home shall be
skirted within sixty (60) days after it is moved upon a lot within the
manufactured home park. Said skirting shall be of a fire resistant material
complementary to that of which the manufactured home exterior is constructed
and shall be attached to the manufactured home.
   E.   Electrical Systems: All electrical lines serving the subdivision shall
be buried underground and shall be designed and constructed in accordance to
the most recent edition of the national electrical code.
   F.   Oil Or Propane Gas Heating: Where oil or propane gas heating of a
manufactured home is necessary, a fuel storage facility shall be provided on
the manufactured home site not to exceed a three hundred (300) gallon capacity.
Said storage facility shall extend no higher than six feet (6') above ground
level and shall be located and screened so it will blend with its surroundings.
   G.   Gas Systems: All gas systems serving the subdivision shall be designed
and constructed in accordance to the most recent edition of the national fuel
gas code, the standard for the storage and handling of liquefied petroleum
gases and the fire code.
      1.   A readily accessible and identifiable shutoff valve controlling the
flow of gas to the entire gas piping system shall be installed near the point
of connection of the liquefied petroleum gas container.
      2.   Each manufactured home lot shall have an accessible, listed gas
shutoff installed. Said valve shall not be located under a manufactured home.
Whenever a manufactured home lot outlet is not in use, the shutoff valve shall
be plugged to prevent accidental discharge. (Ord. 13-06, 10-7-2013)
11-3-37: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK AND CAMPGROUND STANDARDS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to recreational vehicle parks and
campgrounds, except as follows:
   A.   Roadway Width: The following standards shall govern the roadway widths:
      1.   A minimum ten foot (10') roadway width shall be provided for one-way
streets or roads within the park/campground, provided such street:
         a.   Does not exceed five hundred feet (500') in length;
         b.   Has no on street parking;
         c.   Serves twenty five (25) or less spaces.
      2.   Otherwise the following shall apply:
         a.   Twenty feet (20') if no on street parking is proposed;
         b.   Twenty eight feet (28') if parking is proposed on one side of the
street;
         c.   Thirty six feet (36') if parking is proposed on both sides of the
street;
         d.   Minimum centerline curvature radius of forty five feet (45').
   B.   Recreational Vehicle Space: The lots or recreational vehicle spaces
shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Minimum lot (space) width: Twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Minimum lot (space) area: One thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet.
   C.   Distance Between Recreational Vehicles: The distance between the
recreational vehicles shall not be less than fifteen feet (15'). This includes
any foldout or pop out portion or awnings attached to the vehicle. (Ord. 13-06,
10-7-2013)
11-3-38: AIRPORTS, LANDING STRIPS, HELIPORTS, AND HELIPADS:
   A.   Airports, airfields, landing strips, heliports and helipads have unique
land use impacts and must be consistent with public interest and safety. Such
facilities must be designed and located with full consideration of the safety
factors involved and to the proximity of residential and adjacent land uses,
including the reduction of nuisance factors such as noise, smoke and dust. Such
facilities must also meet applicable safety standards of the Federal Aviation
Administration, the State of Montana, and the City Fire Marshal and City
Building Official.
   B.   Public and private landing strips must be located a minimum of one
hundred and twenty-five feet (125') from centerline to adjacent properties.
   C.   Public and private helipads must be located a minimum of three hundred
feet (300') from adjacent properties. Helipads for emergency vehicles such as
air ambulances are exempt from permitting but shall comply with a fifty foot
(50') setback from all property lines.
   D.   All takeoff, landing, and parking areas for manned helicopters must be
surfaced with a dustproof material.
   E.   Manned helicopters are strictly prohibited from landing or taking off
in areas outside of approved helipads or heliports, except for emergencies.
   F.   Heliport and helipad use permits shall not be assignable or
transferable and terminate after one hundred eighty (180) days of non-use.
   G.   Accessory buildings such as aircraft hangars must be located at least
one hundred and fifty feet (150') from the centerline of landing strips. Fire
suppression systems may be required in accordance with applicable building and
fire codes. (Ord. 14-14, 12-1-2014; amd. Ord. 25-05, 5-19-2025)
11-3-39: ARTISAN MANUFACTURING:
   A.   Hours of operation for activities or services open to the public shall
be limited to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   B.   Uses that create excessive, objectionable byproducts such as dirt,
glare, heat, odor, smoke, waste material, dust, gas, atmospheric pollutants,
noise or that have the potential for increased danger to life and property by
reason of fire, explosion or other physical hazards are prohibited.
   C.   Shipping and receiving shall be limited to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. except for rail related shipments.
   D.   All outdoor storage shall be enclosed and screened from adjacent
properties and public streets.
   E.   All outdoor seating and outdoor display shall be screened from adjacent
residential uses by fencing or landscaping.
   F.   All outdoor lighting shall be compliant with section
11-3-25, "Outdoor Lighting Standards", of this chapter.
   G.   No more than forty percent (40%) of gross floor area shall be used for
retail sales, no more than forty nine percent (49%) of the gross floor area
shall be used for food and beverage consumption (outdoor seating areas not
included in calculation).
   H.   With the exception of minor accessory items directly related to the use
of the primary product (i.e., paddles or life preservers at a paddleboard
manufacturer) only items manufactured or assembled on site may be sold on the
premises. (Ord. 16-06, 3-7-2016)
11-3-40: MICROBREWERIES AND MICRODISTILLERIES:
   A.   Hours of operation and maximum servings shall be in accordance with
state law.
   B.   With the exception of pallets and kegs screened by a site obscuring
fence, outdoor storage is prohibited.
   C.   A grain silo may be permitted to be located outside the building where
the beverages are manufactured. It may not be located in any required parking
space or accessway. One sign may be permitted on the grain silo with a maximum
size of twelve (12) square feet in addition to any other allowable signs
permitted at the site.
   D.   Shipping and receiving is limited to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. when the facility is located within five hundred feet
(500') of any residential or institutional use.
   E.   Outdoor seating areas shall be fenced around the perimeter. (Ord. 16-
06, 3-7-2016)
11-3-41: LIVE/WORK UNITS:
   A.   The exterior design of live/work buildings shall be compatible with the
exterior design of commercial, industrial, and residential buildings in the
area, while remaining consistent with the predominant workspace character of
live/work buildings.
   B.   Any commercial or industrial use permitted in the zoning district
applicable to the property is permitted in the live/work unit, subject to a
business license.
   C.   A live/work unit cannot be used solely for residential purposes, and at
least one resident in each live/work unit shall maintain a valid business
license for a business on the premises.
   D.   For live/work units of less than two thousand five hundred (2,500)
square feet, two (2) parking spaces are required for each unit. For live/work
units of greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet, required
parking will be based on the applicable parking standard for the nonresidential
use or the closest similar use as determined by the zoning administrator. (Ord.
16-06, 3-7-2016)
11-3-42: MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The general purpose of the multi-family development
standards are as follows:
      1.   To describe how new multi-family buildings will be compatible with
their surroundings;
      2.   To ensure new multi-family development is compatible with and
enhances the character of Whitefish's residential neighborhoods;
      3.   To enhance the built environment for pedestrians in higher density
areas;
      4.   To provide for development of neighborhoods with attractive, well-
connected streets, sidewalks, and trails that enable convenient, direct access
to neighborhood centers, parks, schools, and transit stops;
      5.   To ensure adequate light, air, and readily accessible open space for
multi-family developments in order to maintain public health, safety, and
welfare;
      6.   To ensure the compatibility of dissimilar adjoining land uses;
      7.   To maintain or improve the character, appearance, and livability of
established neighborhoods by protecting them from incompatible uses, excessive
noise, illumination, loss of privacy, and similar significant nuisances; and
      8.   To encourage creativity and flexibility in the design of multi-
family developments in a manner that maximizes unique site attributes and is
compatible with the character and intensity of adjoining land use.
   B.   Orientation And Multiple Buildings Standards:
      1.   Requirement: Multi-family projects must be designed to orient to
public streets and to provide distinct bicycle, pedestrian, and vehicular
connections to existing neighborhoods.
      2.   Techniques: Techniques for complying with the requirement in
subsection B2 of this section include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Using a modified street grid system where most buildings in a
project front on a street. Where no public streets exist, creating a grid
street system within the project.
         b.   Locating parking areas behind or under buildings and accessing
such parking from alley-type driveways. If driveway access from streets is
necessary, minimum width driveways meeting the Fire Code standards should be
used. Shared driveways between adjacent uses are preferred.
         c.   Providing each building with direct and distinct pedestrian
access from the main street fronting the building and from the back where the
parking is located.
         d.   Design alternate and/or separate routes into the development that
clearly define the bicycle and pedestrian areas versus areas for vehicles.
      3.   Site Planning Techniques: The following illustrations depict site
planning techniques that orient multi-family projects to streets, adding value
and identity to the complex by adding interior or corner courtyards and siting
parking behind buildings:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2121.png]
      4.   Multi-Building Design: For multi-family development sites with
multiple buildings on one lot or multiple buildings on adjacent lots owned and
developed contiguously as one apartment complex, the following additional
standards apply:
         a.   Buildings must exhibit a general similarity of scale,
orientation, and proportion with unified natural and built features. As a
general rule, taller buildings must be placed toward the interior of the site
and stepped back from the street.
         b.   Buildings must be grouped or sited with other buildings to create
distinct outdoor spaces by being organized around a common open space,
courtyards, public open space, natural site features (such as a stream
corridor), or amenities such as recreational facilities.
         c.   Buildings must not present blank walls lacking articulation,
modulation, or window and door openings to streets, access drives, or parking
areas.
         d.   Sites must connect to natural corridors and trail systems and
must facilitate pedestrian and bicycle traffic.
         e.   Multiple apartment buildings on one lot are not subject to
subsection
11-2-3B12 and the special provisions set forth in subsection
11-3-14B to encourage smaller building scale and massing.
   C.   Parking Location And Design:
      1.   Requirement: The impact of driveways and parking lots on the public
and neighboring properties must be minimized by designing, locating, and
screening parking lots, carports, and garages in a way that creates few
interruptions on the street, sidewalk, or building facade. Bicycle parking and
storage must be provided.
      2.   Techniques: Techniques for complying with the requirement in
subsection C1 of this section include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Locating surface parking at the rear or side of lot;
         b.   Breaking large parking lots into small ones in a way that
provides easy access for pedestrians;
         c.   Minimizing the number and width of driveways and curb cuts;
         d.   Sharing driveways with adjacent property owners;
         e.   Locating parking in areas that are less visible from the street
but preferably with southern exposure for snow melt;
         f.   Locating driveways so they are visually less dominant;
         g.   Limiting parking lots on street frontages to thirty percent (30%)
of the street frontage;
         h.   Parking lot lighting must be the minimum needed to create
adequate visibility at night, must be energy efficient and dark sky compliant
meeting outdoor lighting standards found in section
11-3-25 of this chapter, and must utilize energy efficient “warm-white” or
filtered (CCT <3,000 K; S/P ratio <1.2) fully shielded LED lights as much as
possible. Sufficient ground-level lighting must be provided where stairs,
curbs, ramps, abrupt changes in walk direction, and crossing vehicle lanes
occur; and
         i.   Secure short-term bicycle parking must be provided in a
convenient location at one space for every four (4) dwelling units, with a
minimum of two (2) spaces provided.
   D.   Fences And Walls:
      1.   Requirement: The site must be designed to minimize the need for
fences and walls which inhibit or discourage pedestrian use of sidewalks or
paths, isolate neighborhoods, or separate neighborhoods from main roads.
      2.   Techniques: Techniques for complying with the requirement in
subsection D1 of this section include, but are not limited to, placing
pedestrian breaks and/or crossings at frequent intervals where a fence, wall or
landscaped area separates a sidewalk from a building or one development from
another, or when fencing is necessary, using fencing that is easy to see
through such as natural wood split rail or picket fencing.
   E.   Site Lighting And Support Facilities:
      1.   Requirement: Provide adequate lighting, screening, and pedestrian
access to supporting facilities such as tot lots, mailboxes, bus stops,
recycling areas and dumpsters. If otherwise required as a condition of project
approval, locate passenger shelters in well-lit areas with access to the multi-
family walkway network. Provide for shielding and directing of lighting to
minimize impacts upon residents and abutting property owners. Lighting must
meet the requirements of section
11-3-25, "Outdoor Lighting Standards", of this chapter, and energy efficient
"warm- white" or filtered (CCT <3,000 K; S/P ratio <1.2) fully shielded LED
lights must be utilized as much as possible. Light fixtures not necessary for
security purposes must be activated by motion sensor devices where practicable.
      2.   Techniques: Techniques for complying with the requirement in
subsection E1 of this section include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Site Lighting:
            (1)   Providing site lighting along walkways throughout the project
that is pedestrian scale, and low in height and intensity;
            (2)   Providing security lighting in parking areas and play areas;
            (3)   Preventing site lighting from shining into the dwelling units
in the development; and
            (4)   Directing lighting away from neighboring development.
      3.   Bus Stops: Ensuring that the multi-family walkway network provides
convenient pedestrian access to the nearest transit stop.
      4.   Support Facilities:
         a.   Locating support facilities such as trash receptacles, dumpsters,
and mechanical equipment in areas adjacent to interior walkways; and
         b.   Fully screening and landscaping support facilities.
   F.   Open Space And Outdoor Common And Private Spaces:
      1.   Requirement: Usable common area open space of at least ten percent
(10%) of the site must be provided in a multi-family development for all the
residents of the development in a central location accessible to all units.
Given the environmental and recreational benefit of open space, it should be
integrated into the overall design of the development rather than consisting of
residual areas left over after buildings and parking lots are sited.
      2.   Techniques: Techniques for complying with the requirement in
subsection F1 of this section include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Combining the open space of contiguous properties to provide for
larger viable open space areas;
         b.   Siting permanent outdoor recreation equipment away from storm
drainage facilities;
         c.   Using walkways to connect the open space to the multi- family
buildings, parking areas, and adjacent neighborhoods;
         d.   Incorporating a variety of amenities and activities for all age
groups in the open space, including, but not limited to site furnishings such
as benches and tables, picnic and barbeque areas, patios and courtyards,
gardens, water features, tot lots, play fields, sport courts (such as tennis,
volleyball, or bocce ball), and open lawns; and
         e.   Required setbacks and landscaping buffers, parking areas, and
emergency access and/or turnarounds cannot be counted as common area open
space.
      3.   Private Outdoor Spaces: Visually shielded private outdoor spaces
such as yards, decks, or patios should be provided to encourage a sense of
ownership by residents. Shielding may consist of berms, hedges, landscaping,
fencing, or walls.
   G.   Neighborhood Scale:
      1.   Requirement: To the extent reasonable and practicable, the
architectural scale of new buildings proposed for existing neighborhoods must
be compatible with and complement the architectural character of neighboring
buildings.
      2.   Techniques: Techniques for complying with the requirement in
subsection G1 of this section include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Breaking a multi-family building into house size building
elements, especially where there is a building height transition from adjoining
development; and
         b.   Using the existing separation pattern and orientation of
buildings in the adjacent neighborhood to establish the pattern of the new
developments.
      3.   Design: The following illustrations depict how multi-family
buildings can be better integrated into existing neighborhoods through
architectural design:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2123.png]
         a.   Articulation and modulation of buildings and roof lines reduces
perceived building bulk and scale.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2125.png]
         b.   Designing multi-family buildings to "step back" from abutting
lower density properties helps the building to better fit into the existing
neighborhood.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2127.png]
         c.   The multi-family buildings depicted as "A" and "B" above have
been built on an identical site. However, building example "A" incorporates
design clues from the surrounding neighborhood and is the preferred design.
Building example "A" covers roughly the same lot area as building example "B"
and provides for the same number of units, while fitting in with its
surroundings. Multi- family building example "B" has been built on a site
surrounded by single-family development. The building design is undesirable as
it bears no resemblance to the existing neighborhood and looks out of place.
(Ord. 19-13, 6-17-2019; amd. Ord. 20-13, 10-19-2020; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
11-3-43: MIXED-USE AND NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The general purposes of the mixed-use and non-
residential design standards are as follows:
      1.   To help implement the City's Growth Policy, Downtown Business
District Master Plan, and various Corridor Plans;
      2.   Promote development in the City's Commercial Zones compatible with
the historic character and pedestrian orientation of Whitefish, encouraging and
requiring commercial development that enables the safe circulation of
pedestrians with minimal vehicle- pedestrian conflicts, softens the auto-
dominated nature of the zoning district, and provides a regional design, which
invites the pedestrian into ground floor commercial establishments;
      3.   Enrich the quality of Commercial Zones built and natural
environments;
      4.   Promote distinct communities and senses of place that strengthen the
Commercial Districts as commercial service destinations for the City's
residents and visitors;
      5.   Provide clear direction to public and private decision makers
regarding the City's property development expectations; and
      6.   Require building design compatible with adopted requirements, while
allowing design professionals guidance that is flexible and encourages creative
solutions.
   B.   Building Orientation And Multi-Building Sites:
      1.   Orientation: Buildings must be oriented towards the primary street
frontage and public paths and/or sidewalks. Buildings on corner lots should be
oriented towards the primary intersection.
         a.   Buildings may be located further away from the primary street
when separated from the street by existing healthy and mature trees being
retained in perpetuity. In those cases, buildings should be placed as close to
the trees as practical and a plan must be submitted to maintain the health of
the trees along with a replacement plan for dead, dying, or hazardous trees
(see section
11-4-3 and section
11-4-6 of this chapter).
         b.   Buildings must be arranged on the site so that their orientation
frames, encloses, or otherwise gives prominence to a pedestrian corridor, an
outdoor gathering space with outdoor seating, a "main street" pedestrian or
vehicle access corridor within the site, or the corners of street intersections
or entry points into the development.
         c.   Buildings on corner lots should be oriented toward the primary
intersection and the primary and secondary street frontages, while parking and
auto access must be located away from the primary intersection corners.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2129.png]
         d.   The use of lot corner entrances, plazas, signage, and/or
landscaping is encouraged to accentuate corner sites.
      2.   Separation: Where buildings are separated from the primary street
frontage by a required setback or public sidewalk, the space should contain
public and pedestrian amenities.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2131.png]
         a.   Buildings may be separated from the sidewalk by plazas,
landscaping, benches, bicycle racks, trash cans, and other pedestrian
amenities.
      3.   Multi-Building Design: For non-residential and mixed-use development
sites with multiple buildings on one lot or multiple buildings on adjacent lots
owned and developed contiguously as part of a business, retail, or industrial
park, the following additional standards apply:
         a.   Buildings must exhibit a general similarity of scale,
orientation, and proportion with unified natural and built features. As a
general rule, taller buildings must be placed toward the interior of the site
and stepped back from the street;
         b.   Buildings must be grouped or sited with other buildings to create
distinct outdoor spaces, with distinct pedestrian connections between the
buildings, parking, and the street;
         c.   Retention ponds must be irregular and organically shaped;
         d.   Sites must connect to natural corridors and trail systems and
must facilitate pedestrian and bicycle traffic; and
         e.   Multiple buildings on one lot are subject to subsection
11-2-3B12 and the special provisions set forth in subsection
11-3-14B of this chapter.
   C.   Off-Street Parking Lots: Development must minimize the impact of
parking on the building's relationship to the street and pedestrian-oriented
character and character of the neighborhood.
      1.   Off-street parking must be located to the side or rear of buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2133.png]
      2.   Parking lots must not be located between the building and the
primary street frontage.
      3.   Off-street parking must occupy no more than thirty percent (30%) of
the primary street frontage nor more than seventy five percent (75%) of any
secondary street frontage for corner lots.
      4.   Parking lot lighting must be the minimum needed to create adequate
visibility at night, must be energy efficient and dark sky compliant meeting
outdoor lighting standards found in section
11-3-25 of this chapter and must utilize energy efficient "warm- white" or
filtered (CCT <3,000 K; S/P ratio <1.2) fully shielded LED lights as much as
possible. Lighting must be provided where stairs, curbs, ramps, abrupt changes
in walk direction, and crossing vehicle lanes occur. Light fixtures not
necessary for security purposes must be reduced, activated by motion sensor
devices, or turned off during hours when the business or use is not open.
      5.   Adjacent developments are required to link parking areas where
physically possible as well as access ways in order to encourage combining of
shopping trips, pedestrian activity and to reduce redundant driveways and the
need to re-access arterials.
      6.   Vehicle circulation on-site must be clearly organized to facilitate
movement into, throughout, and out of parking areas. Parking drive lanes and
intersections must align wherever practical.
      7.   Low impact development techniques for stormwater management should
be used wherever possible.
      8.   Secure short-term bicycle parking shall be provided in a convenient
location at one space for every four (4) dwelling units and/or ten percent
(10%) of the number of required vehicle parking spaces, whichever is greater,
with a minimum of two (2) spaces provided.
   D.   On-Street Parking: On-street parking is encouraged along streets,
access drives, and alleys in order to provide convenient access and reduce the
need for off-street parking lots.
      1.   The required number of off-street parking spaces shall be reduced by
one space for each newly developed on-street parking space.
      2.   Parking for Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements may
be met on-street if such a location meets ADA design standards and would better
serve the public than off-street ADA parking.
   E.   Pedestrian And Bicycle Accommodations: Provide safe, bicycle and
pedestrian-friendly development.
      1.   Walkways must be provided between the primary abutting street and
the main pedestrian entrances to buildings.
      2.   The interruption of sidewalks by driveways should be minimized.
Where driveways cross sidewalks, the sidewalks should remain raised with a curb
cut and ramp over the sidewalk provided so cars may pass over the sidewalk
rather than requiring pedestrians to step down to an interrupting driveway.
      3.   Pedestrian access must be provided between commercial sites and
adjacent areas. Existing informal pathway locations and future walkway
locations shown in the nonmotorized transportation plan shall be taken into
consideration when locating new paths.
      4.   Bicycle locking racks that support the entire bicycle frame, not
just the front wheel, must be provided. Bicycle racks must be located as close
as possible to primary building entrances (generally within 20 feet). New
buildings should provide covered bicycle racks, especially those used by
employees.
   F.   Mixed-Use Or Non-Residential Development Adjacent To Residential Zones:
Buildings must be designed to ensure that building massing, height, and scale
provide sensitive transition to adjoining residential neighborhoods.
      1.   New developments adjacent residential areas must mitigate impacts
through careful site planning and architectural design. Possible mitigation
techniques include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Locating open space and preserving existing vegetation on the
site's edge to further separate the building from less intensive uses;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2135.png]
         b.   Stepping down the massing of the building along the site's edge
to help larger buildings fit into the context of a neighborhood;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2137.png]
         c.   Limiting the length of or articulating building facades to
reflect adjacent residential patterns; and
         d.   Creative use and ongoing maintenance of landscaping, such as
buffers, berms, mounds, rockeries, living fences, and swales.
   G   Support Elements: Mechanical elements, loading areas, trash, and
recycling containers must be located and/or screened to minimize their
visibility from public view.
      1.   Refuse and storage containers must be screened with built and/or
landscaped confinements.
      2.   Refuse and storage areas should be located to the rear or side of
the property and away from adjacent streets and residential property.
      3.   Service and loading areas should be located to the rear or sides of
buildings away from adjacent streets but must be designed for convenient use.
(Ord. 19-13, 6-17-2019; amd. Ord. 20-13, 10-19-2020; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 4
LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Purpose And Intent
11-4-2: Applicability
11-4-3: Landscaping Plan Submittal Requirements
11-4-4: Minimum Landscaping Standards
11-4-5: General Landscaping Requirements
11-4-6: Tree Retention
11-4-7: Maintenance
11-4-8: Performance Assurance
11-4-9: Administration
11-4-10: Nonconforming Status
11-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to promote landscaping on private
property to:
      1.   Maintain and improve community livability;
      2.   Mitigate possible adverse impacts of higher intensity land uses
located adjacent to lower intensity land uses;
      3.   Mitigate or reduce the impacts of climate change;
      4.   Reduce the heat-island effect and provide adequate shade;
      5.   Foster quality of life;
      6.   Enhance the City’s natural environment;
      7.   Improve air quality;
      8.   Protect water quality by providing vegetated areas that minimize and
filter stormwater runoff;
      9.   Promote sustainable landscape practices including the usage of
water-conserving and non invasive native plants;
      10.   Provide wildlife habitat;
      11.   Enhance the aesthetic quality, and economic viability of the City;
and
      12.   Preserve, protect, and provide planting of trees and other
landscape material, particularly those trees recognized as canopy and
understory trees which are integral to the City of Whitefish’s community
character and protect public health, safety, and general welfare. (Ord. 23-08,
6-5-2023)
11-4-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Unless otherwise noted, the provisions of this chapter apply to all
districts and to all uses except single-family dwellings and duplexes.
      1.   While exempt from the enforcement of these landscaping requirement,
single family and duplex uses are encouraged to apply general landscaping
standards as written in this chapter.
      2.   Multifamily developments are additionally required to conform to the
open space and common and private open space requirements of Section
11-3-42 “Multifamily Development Standards” of this title.
   B.   Landscaping requirements outlined in this section apply when any of the
following occurs:
      1.   When new development occurs; or
      2.   When the footprint of any existing building or total area of parking
lot is cumulatively expanded by twenty five percent (25%) or more; or
      3.   When a change of use is requested by the property owner that
requires additional parking to be developed.
   C.   Required Landscape Areas. Landscaping must occur in buffer areas, along
building frontages facing streets, residential areas and public spaces,
interior parking areas, along the perimeter of parking lots, along street
frontages, and to screen specific elements as indicated in this chapter.
Buildings frontages where the buildings are developed at less than a five foot
setback are exempt from this requirement but are encouraged to incorporate the
methods of landscaping for properties with reduced or no street frontage
setbacks in the general landscaping requirements of Section
11-4-4 D.
      1.   All areas of a site not covered by structures, courtyards, patios,
driveways, parking areas, or other impervious surfaces must be landscaped or
retain existing vegetation. (Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
11-4-3: LANDSCAPING PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   As applicable, a scaled landscape plan showing required landscaping
must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator in electronic and paper format
for review and approval as a part of the application for a building permit.
   B.   When a stormwater plan is required, it must match the approved
landscape plan. Landscape plans must be submitted to Public Works with the
engineering plans if above-ground stormwater facilities are included.
   C.   A landscape plan must be prepared by a licensed landscape architect or
professional landscape company or installer. A landscape plan must at a minimum
include the following:
      1.   Name and address and location of the project;
      2.   Scale (scale shall be at least 1:20 or larger for sites of 2 acres
or less and at least 1:50 for sites greater than 2 acres in size);
      3.   Dimensioned locations, size, and species of existing and proposed
trees and vegetation within required landscape areas, including public right-
of-way, and indication of which trees will be protected, and which trees will
be removed pursuant to the tree retention requirements per Section
11-4-6;
      4.   Property boundaries, significant existing physical features,
playgrounds and equipment, easements, rights-of-way, vision clearance
triangles, streets, sidewalks, paths, driveways, parking lots, areas to be
paved or graveled, retaining walls, fences, detention ponds, drainageways or
swales, areas affected by the 100 year floodplain, existing and proposed
structures, building entrances, freestanding lights and signs, service or
loading areas, open spaces, and recreational or resident amenities;
      5.   Existing and proposed contours and elevations;
      6.   The location, size and species of all qualifying trees or groups of
trees. Qualifying trees will be identified by botanical/common names and
applicable size (refer to Section
11-4-6 regarding “qualifying trees”);
      7.   Trees to be removed or altered in any way must be marked in the
field and matched on the tree plan. Number of trees, species and caliper as
measured four feet (4') dbh must be identified on the plan;
      8.   Identify the size, location, number of replacement plantings, the
total caliper inches being removed of qualifying trees, and the total caliper
inches being replaced;
      9.   If tree mitigation or replacement is not feasible, the plan or
accompanying materials should demonstrate why mitigation or planting of some or
all of the required replacement trees is impracticable;
      10.   The location and type of any irrigation systems (with water source
noted) to maintain plantings unless exclusively drought tolerant species are
used, and an acceptable watering plan is approved by the Planning Department;
      11.   Plant legend listing botanical and common names with size and
quantity information;
      12.   The location of all existing and proposed underground utilities and
any electric/communication facilities;
      13.   Description of the long-term proposed maintenance plan;
      14.   Description of how the proposed plan meets the requirement for
water conserving design;
      15.   Plans for the removal and continued maintenance for removal of
existing prohibited invasive species from the site;
      16.   Metal caging or breathable trunk protectors around trees for the
first three (3) years after planting for protection from wildlife.
      17.   Estimated date of completion of the installation of plantings and
finish materials;
      18.   The approved landscape and maintenance plans must not be changed or
altered without review and approval by the zoning administrator. All
landscaping shown on the approved plan must be installed and maintained;
      19.   Limits of disturbance must be reflected on the landscape plan and
any engineering plans and must be delineated and permanently maintained
throughout the project;
      20.   Photos of any existing trees/landscaping to be retained must be
submitted with the landscaping plan;
      21.   Cost estimate of any elements of the landscaping plan that cannot
be installed prior to certificate of occupancy due to season or weather that
will need to be bonded for; and
      22.   A cost estimate for all labor and materials for any project
requiring a maintenance bond. (Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
11-4-4: MINIMUM LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
   A.   The following landscape standards reflected in Table 11-4-3A-
1 establish minimum landscape requirements that apply to any applicable
development.
TABLE 11-4-3A-1 MINIMUM LANDSCAPING STANDARDS
A.   Minimum planting sizes at installation
   Deciduous Trees                   Two-inch (2") minimum caliper
   Evergreen Trees                   Six feet (6') in height
   Shrubs                            Two-gallon minimum size
   Ground Cover / Perennials         One-gallon pot minimum size or equivalent
B.   General Planting Standards
                                        One (1) tree and five (5) shrubs for every five hundred (500) square feet of
   Minimum Planting Density          landscape area. Plantings may be installed in a linear, cluster, or other
                                        appropriate pattern.
   Minimum Width of Landscape Area   The minimum inside width of any required landscaped area, or of any form or fixed
                                        planter box used to satisfy required landscaping, must be three feet (3').
                                        Remaining ground cover will consist of low shrubs, native seed, or other
   Ground Coverage Requirements      vegetative cover with no more than fifty percent (50%) of the remaining coverage
                                        being only turf, mulch or rock.
                                        At least fifty percent (50%) of required plant species must be native to Montana
   Species Requirement               or a cultivar of a native species. No more than fifty percent (50%) of the
                                        required landscaping may be the same species.
                                        Fifty percent (50%) or greater of the proposed trees and shrubs must be drought
   Drought Tolerant Species Required tolerant species as defined in the latest edition of the Montana Nursery and
Percentage                              Landscape Association’s Drought Tolerant Plants for the Montana Landscape or on a
                                        list adopted by the city of drought tolerant species for purposes of this section.
C.   Street Frontage Landscape Standards
                                        All private areas along street frontages not used for street pavement, curbs,
                                        gutters, parking, sidewalks or drive aisles must be landscaped as indicated in the
                                        general planting standards. Alleys are exempt from this requirement. This
   Applicability                     landscaping area may include amenities such as patios, courtyards, outdoor
                                        furniture and planter boxes. Landscaping in public rights-of-way is regulated per
                                        the City of Whitefish’s Engineering Standards (Refer to the Tree Protection and
                                        Planting Requirements of Chapter 1).
                                       When this requirement conflicts with other requirements of this chapter or other
                                        portion of the code, the more restrictive standard shall apply.
                                        Ten feet (10').
   Minimum Width of Landscape Area   All properties within the WB-2 zoning district with street frontage along Highway
                                        93 South from E. 13th Street to Highway 40 must provide a landscaped thirty foot
                                        (30') wide street frontage.
D.   Parking Lot Landscape Standards  1
   Applicability                     Applies to all uncovered parking lots of over five (5) parking spaces, including
                                        vehicle sales or service areas.
                                        Ten Percent (10%) of the total area of parking lot and drive aisles must be
   Minimum Required Landscaping      landscaped as measured around the perimeter of all parking spaces and maneuvering
Percentage                              areas. Interior parking islands, parking lot perimeters and parking lot side
                                        building perimeter landscaping may be calculated in this percentage.
                                        A minimum five-foot (5') wide landscape strip must be provided along the perimeter
                                        of parking, loading, or other paved vehicular use areas, including drive aisles,
   Parking Lot Perimeter             vehicle sales areas, and vehicle storage areas.
                                        Two feet (2') must be added to the width of any required landscape area when curb
                                        stops are not used, and a car bumper hangs over the landscaped area.
                                        A ten foot (10') wide landscape screen must be installed along any parking lot
   Parking Lots Adjacent to Right of perimeter adjacent to right-of-way. The screen shall consist of planting materials
Way                                     and manmade features to create at minimum a three foot (3') high visual relief
                                        screen in the form of hedges, planter boxes, berms, dividers, shrubbery, or trees,
                                        or a combination of the above.
   Parking Lots Abutting Residential See residential buffer requirements in Section
Use                                     11-4-3A-1-E.
   Internal Landscape Island Standards:
      Minimum Landscaping RequiredOne landscape island must be installed per every ten (10) parking spaces and at
                                        the end of each parking row.
                                        All landscape islands shall include at least one (1) shade tree with remaining
      Minimum Planting Density:   ground being covered with low shrubs, native seed, or other vegetative cover with
                                        no more than fifty percent (50%) of the remaining coverage being only turf, mulch
                                        or rock.
                                        Each island must be a minimum of one-hundred eighty (180) square feet and not less
                                        than nine feet (9') in width. All tree plantings must contain a root barrier
      Minimum Dimensions:         around the perimeter of the planting area a minimum of thirty-six inches (36") in
                                        depth and which extends above the surface of the soil enough to prevent roots from
                                        growing over the top. Acceptable root barriers include any impermeable durable
                                        material that can withstand burial in soil for the life of the tree.
E.   Residential Buffer Standards
                                        Required along the entire property line of non-residential properties that abut a
                                        parcel used or zoned for entirely residential purposes, excluding mixed use 2 .
   Applicability                     Buffers should be designed to avoid the appearance of a straight line or “wall” of
                                        uniform plant material and must be wide enough to accommodate the planted species
                                        at maturation. Residential buffers are not required along property lines abutting
                                        a street or alley.
                                        Exemption: Buildings in the WB-3 classification are exempt from the residential
                                       buffer requirements but are encouraged to incorporate the landscaping for
                                        properties with reduced or no street frontage setbacks indicated in the general
                                        landscaping requirements in Section 11-4-4 D. when possible.
                                        In situations where the required residential buffer width is partially or
                                       completely contained within an existing easement (e.g., power or natural gas
                                        transmission, etc.), the screening requirements of this section must be met
                                        outside the easement area.
   Residential Buffer Planting Standards:
      Minimum Width:              Ten feet (10').
      Minimum Planting Density:   One (1) tree and five (5) shrubs for every thirty feet (30') of linear frontage.
      Minimum Height:             Must be planted to grow to at least five feet (5') in height, planted in a manner
                                        that best screens the proposed use.
                                        The remaining ground must be covered with low shrubs, native seed, or other
      Composition:                vegetative cover with no more than fifty percent (50%) of the remaining coverage
                                        being only turf, mulch, or rock.
                                        No less than seventy five percent (75%) of the total required plant materials must
                                       be evergreen. The residential buffer must achieve a fifty percent (50%) visual
                                        screen of at least 5 feet (5') in height at maturity.
                                        An up to six foot (6') high closed masonry or wood wall, fence, or berm may be
                                       substituted for the shrub vegetation, but trees and ground cover are still
                                        required.
F.   Screening Standards
   Applicability                     1.   Ground level mechanical equipment.
                                       2.   Utility cabinets thirty (30) or more inches in height and located within
                                        twenty-five feet (25') of a street.
                                        3.   Materials, supplies, merchandise, vehicles, equipment, storage or shipping
                                       containers, trash receptacles or other similar matter not on display for direct
                                        sale, rental, or lease to the ultimate consumer or use.
                                        Must be screened from view of streets and abutting residential uses and zoning
   Screening Method                  districts by a dense hedge, berms, solid wall, solid fence or combination of such
                                        features. The hedge, fence, or wall must be tall enough to fully screen the
                                        equipment from neighboring parcels. (Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
 
 
Notes
1 1. Parking lots also need to meet the parking lot design standards found in
  Appendix A of this title.
2 2. Unless otherwise required by the Zoning Administrator in order to observe
  the sight distance requirements contained in the development regulations.
11-4-5: GENERAL LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Water Conserving Design. Water conserving landscape designs and low
water use plant materials are required and intended to discourage landscaping
necessitating high water use for maintenance. Water conserving landscaping
principles do not include or allow artificial turf or plants, landscape designs
predominately consisting of mulch or gravel beds (including crushed rock,
etc.), or areas without landscape plant material such as bare dirt or weed
infested surfaces, or any landscaping that does not comply with the standards
of this section. Water conserving landscaping principles include all of the
following:
      1.   Grouping plants and trees with similar water and sunlight
requirements together.
      2.   Limiting the application of turf to appropriate high-use areas with
high visibility and functional needs.
      3.   Use of low water demanding plants and turf where suitable.
      4.   Use of automatic irrigation systems designed and operated to
conserve water.
      5.   Incorporation of soil amendments, where appropriate.
      6.   Use of mulches.
      7.   Planting appropriate materials suited to the soil and climate.
   B.   Prohibited Species. The installation and maintenance of prohibited
species, as indicated in the City of Whitefish Prohibited Species List on file
in the Office of the City Clerk, are prohibited.
   C.   Landscape Design Techniques. Whenever possible, the following
landscaping design techniques must be integrated into a project:
      1.   Existing trees, topography and other existing natural features
should be retained and incorporated into a project;
      2.   Open areas created by building modulation should be landscaped;
      3.   Natural vegetation, existing grades and undisturbed open space must
be preserved where possible;
      4.   Trees should be located on commercial frontages at appropriate
spacing so at maturity building signage and entrance are clearly visible from
the street and sidewalk;
      5.   On-site natural objects such as rocks, boulders and tree stumps
should be incorporated into landscape design;
      6.   All landscaped areas must be graded to prevent erosion and
facilitate healthy landscaping;
      7.   Trees and large shrubs must be located with consideration to
utilities and other public improvements.
      8.   Firewise fuel management techniques and fire-resistant plants should
be utilized.
   D.   Landscaping for properties with reduced or no street frontage setbacks:
When possible, the additional design techniques for the WB-3 Zone and areas
with limited undeveloped space should include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   Providing frameworks attached to buildings such as trellises or
arbors for plants;
      2.   Incorporating planter guards, retaining walls, or low planter walls
as part of the architecture;
      3.   Incorporating upper story planter boxes, “green roofs”, roof gardens
or hanging plants;
      4.   Incorporating outdoor furniture into the site.
   E.   Trees, fencing and any other landscape materials in accordance with
landscape plans must not cause sight distance problems with vehicles entering
the adjoining street from driveways or nearby intersections (see clear vision
triangle in Section
11-3-8).
   F.   Any open area between a fence or wall and the adjacent property line
must be maintained by the property owner in a neat and orderly manner.
   G.   Where streams, wetlands, steep slopes, or other environmentally
sensitive areas exist on a proposed development site, the landscape plan must
be coordinated with measures for their protection and enhancement as required
by the Water Quality Protection and Erosion and Sediment Control Provisions in
Sections
11-3-29 and
11-3-33.
   H.   Vehicle sales lots are exempt from planting trees in the required
internal landscape islands. (Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
11-4-6: TREE RETENTION:
   A.   Applicability: The preferred method of landscaping is to first
incorporate and preserve existing trees and shrubs, topography, and other
natural features into the project design. Tree preservation and/or tree
replacement is required to be addressed with landscape plans for all
developments which are applicable pursuant to this chapter. Priority for tree
preservation will be given to qualifying trees which provide beneficial shade,
property or use buffering, visual prominence, or significant habitat. The
applicant and/or developer shall make every effort to protect or retain any
qualifying trees throughout a project.
   B.   Qualifying Trees: For the purpose of this section, a “qualifying tree”
is an existing evergreen tree which is at least twelve inches (12") in caliper,
deciduous tree which is at least six inches (6") in diameter, or any mature
tree determined as significant by the Zoning Administrator. Diameter will be
measured at four feet (4') from grade, also called diameter at breast height
(dbh).
   C.   The City recognizes that tree removal is sometimes necessary to
reasonably develop a site. Preservation of trees may be considered impractical
when removal is required for defensible space for wildfire prevention, when
tree retention or replacement would prevent development of streets, utilities,
construction of civil facilities, needed community housing, to meet minimum
standards as required by the City, or when it would prevent reasonable use of
the property as permitted by the applicable zoning district. The term “prevent”
in this standard means that the development cannot be designed to avoid removal
or replacement of qualifying tree(s). An inability to achieve maximum permitted
density or building envelopes by complying with this subsection is not in
itself considered to prevent development.
      1.   When tree retention or replacement is considered impractical, the
qualifying trees which cannot be retained or replaced should be indicated on
the landscape plan with demonstration of why removal of qualifying trees is
necessary and / or planting of some or all of the required replacement trees is
impractical.
   D.   Tree Replacement Requirements: In the case a qualifying tree designated
for retention on the landscape plan must be removed or dies, it must be
replaced with trees totaling at least two times the caliper inches as was lost.
Tree replacement requirements exist whether or not the lot is already meeting
overall planting requirements.
   E.   Tree Credit. Each existing preserved qualifying tree will be credited
as two trees toward satisfying landscape requirements (ex: if 10 trees are
required along a street frontage and a qualifying tree is preserved only eight
(8) trees are required to be planted). The total trees on a site cannot be
reduced by more than fifty percent (50%) of any requirement. This reduction
does not apply to internal parking island trees.
      1.   Only those trees determined to be viable and savable will receive
tree credits. A tree(s) determined to be hazardous, diseased or severely
injured by a certified arborist will not receive tree credits. Likewise, if it
is determined that a large portion of the root system of a tree(s) will be
disturbed or destroyed by grading, trenching etc. then no tree credits will be
granted.
      2.   Should any tree designated on the landscape plan die or be removed
at any time after approval of the plan or issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, the owner must replace sufficient trees equal to the tree
preservation credit within six (6) months.
   F.   Tree Protection Requirements: The following guidelines and standards
apply to trees proposed to be preserved:
      1.   Tree Protection Zones:
         a.   The root system within the drip line is generally considered to
be the critical root zone and must be protected. To protect these critical root
zones, a tree protection zone must be established around each tree or group of
trees to be retained.
         b.   The tree protection zones must include no less than the total
area beneath the tree canopy as defined by the drip line of the tree or group
of trees.
         c.   Natural grading around trees must be preserved within drip line
to protect roots. Grade should not be increased or diminished around root
collar.
         d.   Layout of the project site utility and grading plans and
construction plans must avoid disturbance of the tree protection zone.
         e.   Construction site activities such as parking, materials storage,
grading and excavation, concrete washout, etc., must be arranged so as to
prevent disturbances within tree protection areas.
      2.   Protective Barriers:
         a.   Protective tree fencing must be installed between buffers and
tree protection areas and areas proposed to be cleared, graded, or otherwise
disturbed on the site, prior to any land disturbance.
         b.   All tree protection zones are recommended to be designated as
such with “tree save area signs” posted in addition to the required protective
fencing. Signs requesting subcontractor cooperation and compliance with tree
protection standards are recommended for site entrances.
         c.   All tree protection zones must be protected from soil
sedimentation intrusion through the use of silt screens or other acceptable
measures placed up slope from the tree protection area.
         d.   All protective tree fencing and all erosion control barriers must
be installed prior to and maintained throughout the land disturbing and
construction process, and should not be removed until final landscaping is
installed.
         e.   Encroachment: If encroachment into a tree protection zone occurs
which causes irreparable damage to the trees, the tree preservation and/or
replacement plan will be revised to compensate for the loss. Under no
circumstances is the developer relieved of responsibility for compliance with
the provisions of this section, nor will plan revision activities stop the
department from instituting action for violation of this section.
   G.   Replacement Trees: Replacement trees shall comply with the following:
      1.   The spacing of replacement trees must be compatible with spatial
site limitations and with responsible consideration towards species size when
mature.
      2.   Trees selected for planting must be free from injury, pests,
disease, nutritional disorders or root defects, and must be of good vigor, so
as to assure a reasonable expectation of survivability. (Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
11-4-7: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General maintenance. The property owner is responsible for maintaining
all plant materials and irrigation facilities within the approved landscaping
plan in a neat and orderly condition for the life of the project. Any unhealthy
or dead plants must be replaced in conformance with the landscaping plan and
landscaped areas must remain free of invasive species. Maintenance includes,
but is not limited to, proper pruning of trees and shrubs, mowing of lawns,
noxious weed mitigation measures/weeding, removal of litter, fertilizing,
replacement of plants when necessary, and the regular watering of all
plantings. When required, landscaped areas will be provided with a permanent
watering or sprinkling system consisting of piped water lines terminating in an
appropriate number of sprinklers or hose bibs to ensure a sufficient amount of
water for plants within the landscaped area. Where the water system consists of
hose bibs alone, these bibs must be located not more than one hundred fifty
feet (150') apart.
   B.   Maintenance Assurance. For multifamily, commercial, and industrial
development, the Zoning Administrator will require a maintenance bond or letter
of credit valid for a period of eighteen (18) months from time of approval of
the landscaping plan to ensure compliance with this section. The value of the
maintenance bond or letter of credit must be twenty percent (20%) of the total
cost of materials and labor. The fee-in-lieu will be ten percent (10%) of the
cost of materials and labor, as outlined in an approved landscaping plan.
Duplexes are exempt from maintenance assurance requirements. (Ord. 23-08, 6-5-
2023)
11-4-8: PERFORMANCE ASSURANCE:
   A.   Required trees and landscaping must be installed prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy or issuance of other necessary permitting prior to
construction or development of the site. In the event it is not possible for
landscaping to be completed at that time due to legitimate weather, supply
issues, etc., the Zoning Administrator may accept a bond or letter of credit to
ensure the installation of all required landscaping within six (6) months of
project approval. Any such device for project assurance must be one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the cost of all required materials and labor, as shown
in an itemized cost estimate, and in no situation will the total be less than
two thousand dollars ($2000). (Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
11-4-9: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Authority: The Zoning Administrator has the authority and jurisdiction
of regulating the planting and/or removal of landscape and trees required by
this chapter.
   B.   Deviation from Landscaping Standards. The Zoning Administrator may
approve exceptions to the regulations when all of the following are met:
      1.   The applicant can document that meeting the requirements would cause
undue hardship due to pre-existing conditions on site, such as existing
location of structures or vegetation.
      2.   The deviation from the standards meets the landscape requirements to
the highest degree possible and is the minimum variation needed.
      3.   The applicant proposes an equal or better result than that which
could be achieved by strictly following the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Other measures to meet the purpose and intent of this Landscape Code
may be proposed to substitute for the required landscaping, such as decorative
fencing, walls, arbors, or trellises, with appropriate vegetation.
   D.   Enforcement: Unlawful removal of a qualifying tree designated in the
tree preservation plan for retention will result in either a municipal
infraction.
   E.   Appeal: Any person may make a written appeal from any ruling or order
made by the Zoning Administrator to the Board of Adjustment, who shall make a
final decision. (Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
11-4-10: NONCONFORMING STATUS:
   A.   Any existing property or use of property that does not comply with the
landscaping regulations of this chapter may be continued in the same manner
except as provided in Section
11-4-2.
   B.   Landscaping which exists on any property or for any use, subject to the
provisions of this chapter, must not be altered or reduced below the minimum
requirements of this chapter, unless suitable substitutions are made which meet
the requirements of this chapter, and a site plan is first approved by the
Zoning Administrator. (Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 5
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Purpose
11-5-2: Establishment And Intent Of Sign Districts
11-5-3: Applicability And Effect
11-5-4: Exempt, Prohibited And Special Standards
11-5-5: General Sign Standards
11-5-6: Zone District Regulations
11-5-6-1: Highway District
11-5-6-2: Old Town District
11-5-6-3: Community Business And Resort Districts
11-5-6-4: Residential Districts
11-5-6-5: Business Service District
11-5-7: Administration
11-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a comprehensive system of reasonable,
effective, consistent, content-neutral and nondiscriminatory sign standards. It
is also the purpose to create sign districts whose requirements meet the
identification and information needs of all land uses and to encourage good
design, reflecting the special character of each sign district. A basic tenet
in adopting and applying these regulations is that unrestricted signs do not
benefit either the private business owner or the community at large. (Ord. 19-
03, 2-4-2019)
11-5-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND INTENT OF SIGN DISTRICTS:
This chapter establishes five (5) distinct geographic districts within the
zoning jurisdiction area which possess different and unique characteristics of
physical location, existing building design and uses, pedestrian versus vehicle
circulation and tourist versus local resident use. The intent of identifying
these unique districts is to encourage design that will meet the needs and
harmonize with the unique character of each district.
The Whitefish sign districts map establishes the five (5) geographic sign
districts: the Highway District, the Old Town District, the Community Business
and Resort District, the Residential District, and the Business Service
District. The map is adopted as part of these regulations and is included in
section
11-8-1, appendix F of this title. A table that lists the various sign districts
and summarizes the sign standards in each district is included in section
11-8-1, appendix G of this title. It is not the intent in establishing these
sign districts to allow uses within a particular zoning district that would not
otherwise be allowed.
To the extent this chapter is amended in the future, such amendments shall
immediately and automatically apply throughout the City.
By the adoption date hereof, the City retains the Whitefish sign districts map
which designates the five (5) geographic sign districts, shown in section
11-8-1, appendix F of this title. Those areas of the City's jurisdictional area
not covered by the special sign districts in section
11-8-1, appendix F of this title shall be considered to be within the
Residential Districts, and subject to the provisions of section
11-5-6-4 of this chapter.
Nothing set forth herein makes legal or otherwise legitimizes any existing
signs in violation of any State of Montana or Flathead County sign laws,
ordinances, or regulations, and such signs shall continue to be illegal signs,
subject to abatement. (Ord. 19-03, 2-4-2019)
11-5-3: APPLICABILITY AND EFFECT:
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
display, construction, erection, alteration, use, maintenance and location of
all signs. All signs that are displayed, constructed, erected or altered after
the date of adoption of this title shall conform to the provisions of these
regulations. These regulations shall be liberally construed in order to further
their purpose, intent and effect, as set forth in sections
11-5-1 and
11-5-2 of this chapter and this section. The Zoning Administrator or designee
is hereby authorized and directed to enforce these regulations.
   B.   Effect: The effect of these regulations is as follows:
      1.   Recognize that signs are a necessary means of useful communication
for the convenience of the public.
      2.   Maximize the value of signage as a means of locating and identifying
businesses and properties while discouraging the use of signs to sell goods and
services.
      3.   Protect, preserve and enhance the unique aesthetic character, beauty
and charm of the City and the surrounding area and to encourage the continued
development of tourism within the zoning jurisdiction.
      4.   Promote signs that are of appropriate scale and integrated with
surrounding buildings and landscape to further the community's desire for
quality development and compatibility within each sign district.
      5.   Promote clear views of the natural surroundings by minimizing visual
clutter and reducing the competition for airspace.
      6.   Protect the public from hazardous conditions that can result from
signs that are structurally unsafe, obscure the vision of motorists, create
dangers to pedestrian traffic or which compete or conflict with necessary
traffic signals and warning signs.
      7.   To prohibit additional and eliminate existing off premises signs and
billboards, which are considered blight to the community and should be removed
as early as possible.
      8.   Eliminate distracting lighting, excessive glare and light pollution
by reasonably limiting the illumination of signs and buildings to subdued,
adequately shielded or concealed light sources.
      9.   Encourage the construction of signs of natural materials, which are
compatible with the historic, cultural and natural surroundings.
      10.   Impose reasonable time, place and manner restrictions while not
unnecessarily interfering with the free exercise of rights granted under the
First Amendment of the United States Constitution.
   C.   Substitution Clause: Any sign allowed under this chapter may contain,
in lieu of any other message or copy, any lawful noncommercial message that
does not direct attention to a business operated for profit, or to a product,
commodity or service for sale or lease, or to any other commercial interest or
activity, so long as the sign complies with the size, height, area and other
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 19-03, 2-4-2019)
11-5-4: EXEMPT, PROHIBITED AND SPECIAL STANDARDS:
   A. Exempt Signs: The following signs are exempt from the overall sign
allowance and do not require permits but must comply with all other
requirements of the district, such as size, height, location, materials, etc.:
      1.   Signs erected and maintained by the Federal, State, or local
government; public utility, public service or railroad signs that aid in
safety; off premises hospital signs.
      2.   Signs that cannot be read from a public right-of-way, including
signs located entirely inside a building and not readily visible from outside
the building, as well as signs intended to be readable from within a parking
area but not readable beyond the boundary of the lot where they are located.
      3.   Nonilluminated window displays, window signs and painted window
lettering, with the exception that, in the Old Town District, such signs are
allowed a limited area (see subsection
11-5-6-2A10 of this chapter).
      4.   A ground or wall sign not exceeding four (4) square feet located at
a housing or apartment complex.
      5.   One subdivision sign per entrance to a subdivision on streets with
different names not exceeding twenty four (24) square feet per face nor
exceeding four feet (4') in height.
      6.   On-premises incidental signs that do not exceed two (2) square feet.
      7.   Non-illuminated non-commercial signs not exceeding six (6) square
feet on residential and resort residential zoned properties, and not exceeding
thirty two (32) square feet in Commercial and Industrial Zones.
      8.   Barber poles and religious symbols.
      9.   The following non-illuminated temporary signs located on private
property, provided they are removed at the completion of the activity (in real
estate, completion means closing) identified in the sign:
         a.   Notices posted by public agencies (i.e., notices of proposed land
use actions, etc.).
         b.   Temporary signs placed on public property no more than two (2)
weeks prior to an event and removed no more than two (2) days after the
conclusion of the event as authorized by the City Council or the City Manager.
         c.   Temporary signs located on an active construction site not
exceeding sixteen (16) square feet per face which are removed either at time of
substantial completion or occupancy. Multiple contractors on a single
development site are entitled to display signage, provided it is consolidated
on a single sign and does not exceed thirty two (32) square feet per face.
         d.   Temporary signs displayed prior to, during and after elections,
not exceeding six (6) square feet per face in Residential Districts, and not
exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in other districts, to be removed no
later than seven (7) days after the final election.
         e.   Temporary signs on properties for sale or rent, one per dwelling
unit or property listed, six (6) square feet per sign face for detached
dwelling units, thirty two (32) square feet per face for other uses, with one
additional temporary sign allowed up to six (6) square feet per face on days
the property is open for public viewing.
         f.   Temporary signs on or near residential properties having
temporary yard or garage sales, up to six (6) square feet and no more than four
feet (4') in height.
         g.   Temporary seasonal displays including flashing or blinking
lights, objects and materials displayed on traditionally accepted civic,
patriotic and religious days, provided that such decorations are maintained in
safe condition and do not constitute a fire hazard. Temporary seasonal displays
are allowed ten (10) days before Thanksgiving through the weekend after Winter
Carnival in February.
      10.   One display box up to six (6) square feet for menus and a bulletin
board up to twelve (12) square feet for events and notices is allowed for each
restaurant, bar and lounge, or grocery store. Any area exceeding the maximum
square feet shall be counted against the total allowable sign area. This does
not apply to menu display boxes or bulletin boards that are not intended to be
seen from a public right-of- way. Bulletin boards must be kept orderly and
posters and handbills that hang outside the borders of the frame must be
removed.
      11. Works of art including wall graphics, carvings and sculptures with no
advertising matter, which are not used in connection with a commercial
promotion or as an advertising device.
      12. The flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, organization of nations,
state, province, county, city, any religious, civic or fraternal organization
or educational institution, providing the flag, pennant or insignia conform to
the following limitations:
         a.   Flags and pennants shall not exceed the proportions which have
been established by presidential declaration: three feet by five feet (3' x 5')
when hung from a building or five feet by seven feet (5' x 7') when hung from a
freestanding flagpole.
         b.   Flags shall have a minimum clearance of eight feet (8') when they
project over public sidewalks and fifteen feet (15') when projecting over
streets or roads. If any point of a flag or flagpole projects beyond the curb
into the street, the flag must maintain fifteen feet (15') of clearance.
Clearance is measured from the lowest point of a slack flag to the nearest
ground surface below. U.S. flags flown on holidays such as Veteran’s Day and
Memorial Day are exempt from the height requirement above.
         c.   Flags, pennants and insignia shall be maintained in a clean and
undamaged condition at all times.
         d.   The display of national flags, pennants and insignia shall be
governed by the standard rules of international protocol.
         e.   No more than three (3) flags, either mounted on a single flagpole
or three (3) separate flagpoles installed as a group.
         f.   No new flagpole permit shall be granted for flags displayed over
thirty five feet (35') in height measured from the ground.
      13.   Signs on motor vehicles or trailers which are being operated or
stored in the normal course of business such as signs indicating the name of
the owner or business on delivery trucks, trailers and the like; provided that
the primary purpose of such vehicles is not for use as signs and provided that
such vehicles are parked or stored in areas appropriate to their use as
vehicles.
      14.   A single changeable copy sign associated with a public park
facility (see subsection
11-5-5K of this chapter).
      15.   A shared service club sign erected in cooperation with the City
that can be used to advertise established organizations within the City. One
may be located on Highway 93 South and one may be located on Highway 93 North.
   B.   Prohibited Signs: The following types of signs or attractive devices
are prohibited in all districts:
      1.   Abandoned signs or any sign which identifies or advertises an
activity, business, product, service or special event which is no longer
produced, conducted, performed or sold on the premises where the sign is
located.
      2.   Animated, rotating, flashing or blinking signs, strobe lights and
searchlights except electronic message signs displaying time and temperature as
provided elsewhere in these regulations. Barbers' poles are not regulated under
this section.
      3.   Signs that have been unlawfully or illegally erected and/or
maintained.
      4.   Signs that constitute a traffic hazard or a nuisance that are
detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the public.
      5.   Permanent display of banners, pennants, festoons, balloons, tethered
objects, strings of flags, streamers, inflated objects or any device intended
as an attractant that is affected by the movement of the air 1.
      6.   Roof signs higher than the apex of the roof. Religious symbols may
extend up to thirty five feet (35'). Religious symbols may extend above thirty
five feet (35') with a conditional use permit. Existing religious symbols are
exempt from these provisions.
      7.   Signs imitating or resembling official traffic or government signs
or signals.
      8.   Advertising matter or sign painted, mounted or attached on a
vehicle, trailer or boat, outdoor storage containers and/or waste receptacles
or their enclosures which are stored, parked or displayed in a conspicuous
manner intended to attract the attention for advertising purposes.
      9.   Internally illuminated vending machines located outside a building
and viewable from a public right-of-way.
      10.   Commercial billboards and off premises signs (except off premises
alley signs as otherwise permitted herein).
   11. Any portable reader board.
   12. Permanent reader board (changeable copy) signs incorporated into a sign
or as a stand-alone sign except for those associated with a religious assembly,
school, fuel prices, theater, public park facilities, convention center or
accommodation vacancy/no vacancy signs.
   13. Any temporary sign attached to public property, including, but not
limited to, a utility pole or structure, streetlight, tree, fence, fire
hydrant, bridge, curb, sidewalk, park bench or other location on public
property except as otherwise provided for in these regulations.
   14. Any sign with exposed incandescent, metal halide or fluorescent light
bulbs.
   15. Any sign which emits audible sound, odor, smoke, steam, laser or
hologram lights or other visible matter, including any device that employs any
stereopticon, motion picture or audio projection.
   16. Any sign placed in any public right-of-way except for signs erected by
the City, County, State or other authorized government agency; or as authorized
by the City Council issuance of a right-of-way encroachment permit. Private
signs permitted in the City right-of-way shall be included in the overall sign
allowance for the property.
   17. Internally illuminated individual letters and internally illuminated
signs.
   18. Electronically automated changeable copy signs, except that such signs
displaying the time and temperature shall be permitted up to six (6) square
feet in size, which square footage shall be in addition to the square footage
otherwise allowed in this chapter.
   19. A-frame signs except as provided for in the Old Town District.
   20. Human signs that are considered commercial signs.
   21. Signs not expressly allowed by the regulations of this chapter.
   C.   Special Standards: The following sign types and land uses have special
sign standards that do not neatly fit within the sign regulations. These signs
or uses are subject to the following sign standards and not the sign district
regulations within section
11-5-6 of this chapter:
      1.   Temporary Commercial Event Signs:
         a.   Temporary commercial signs of a duration not to exceed thirty
(30) consecutive days twice per calendar year, but no two (2) periods shall be
closer than four (4) months apart. Any community wide sales event, whether
sponsored by the local chamber, community service group or promoted by the
City, shall not count toward the allowable days in this subsection. A single
temporary sign is allowed per business. No more than two (2) temporary signs
shall be displayed for multi-tenant locations. Display of banner signs up to
twenty four (24) square feet, pennants, festoons, balloons, tethered objects,
strings of flags, streamers, inflated objects or any other device intended as
an attractant which is affected by the natural movement of the air may be
temporarily allowed under this section. A business must apply for a special
temporary event sign permit from the City Zoning Administrator to qualify under
this subsection. Only the specific items approved on the special temporary sign
permit may be used by the applicant. Items not approved on the special
temporary sign permit remain prohibited.
      Balloons would specifically be allowed under these temporary sign
regulations for a duration not to exceed thirty (30) days in a six (6) month
period.
         b.   Any business, organization, or community group whose access,
visibility, or patronage is detrimentally affected by a government street,
excavation, or infrastructure project, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, may obtain up to two (2) temporary signs totaling not more than
twenty four (24) square feet combined, for the duration of the project without
regard to the limit of thirty (30) consecutive days in a six (6) month period
in the previous paragraph. There shall be no fees assessed for such temporary
signs during a government project.
      2.   Performing Art Centers:
         a.   A single changeable copy sign (see subsection
11-5-5K of this chapter).
         b.   One wall sign no more than twenty four (24) square feet. Such
sign may be integrated into the event promotion sign or may be a separate sign.
This wall sign is separate and distinct from the permitted changeable copy
sign.
         c.   Freestanding signs shall conform to the standards within the
applicable sign district.
         d.   An area of a building wall or fascia may be designated for event
promotion signage. The purpose of this area is to allow multiple changing signs
to promote current and upcoming events. Event promotion sign panels shall be
mounted rigidly and shall only be affixed within a structural frame within the
designated sign area. The sign location shall be established through an overall
sign plan submitted by the operator/owner of the building to the Planning
Department for review and approval. Once the overall sign plan is approved, no
additional permit is required to change individual event promotion sign panels.
In no case shall the individual area of each event promotion sign panel exceed
twenty four (24) square feet nor the total number of event promotion sign
panels exceed three (3). In addition, a small sign not to exceed two (2) square
feet per sign shall be permitted above or below each individual event promotion
sign panel stating, "Now Playing", "Coming Soon" or something similar.
      3.   Schools:
         a.   Public and private schools (K - 12) are allowed one externally
illuminated ground mounted sign a maximum of eighteen (18) square feet per
side, set back five feet (5') from property lines, landscaped around the base,
no more than six feet (6') in height, and preferably made of wood.
Additionally, one non-internally illuminated building mounted school
identification sign of up to sixteen (16) square feet is allowed per school, as
well as one building mounted "slogan" sign, such as "Home Of The Bulldogs", not
to exceed twelve (12) square feet.
         b.   A single changeable copy sign (see subsection
11-5-5K of this chapter).
      4.   Religious Assemblies Or Convention Centers:
         a.   In addition to other signs allowed per these regulations in the
applicable sign district, a single changeable copy sign (see subsection
11-5-5K of this chapter). (Ord. 19-03, 2-4-2019; amd. Ord. 24-13, 11-18-2024)
11-5-5: GENERAL SIGN STANDARDS:
The following are general standards that apply to all signs in all sign
districts. Specific standards are contained in each of the sign districts.
   A.   Freestanding And Ground Mounted Signs: The following standards apply in
all sign districts:
      1.   Freestanding or ground mounted signs are permitted according to the
size and height standards of the sign district in which the property is
located. All freestanding and ground mounted signs must have a landscaped area
around the base of the sign. The landscape area must contain living landscape
material consisting of shrubs and/or perennial ground cover plants placed
throughout the landscape area. The use of architectural structures and/or
embellishments that enhance the building or site and are an integrated part of
the sign are encouraged. Architectural embellishments that do not exceed more
than twenty five percent (25%) of the allowed height or fifty percent (50%) of
the allowed square footage will not be counted against the allowance.
Architectural embellishments may exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the height
and fifty percent (50%) of the area with the approval of staff, upon
recommendation from the Architectural Review Committee. The allowable square
footage for a freestanding sign may be transferred to one building mounted sign
if a freestanding sign is not used on the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1958.gif]
      2.   A freestanding sign may consist of more than one sign panel provided
all such sign panels are consolidated into one common integrated sign
structure. In the event a sign is installed that does not utilize the maximum
sign area permitted, any supplemental additions must conform with, and be
compatible with the existing sign structure. All freestanding signs may be
single-face or back-to-back but must not be canted or constructed in a "V"
shape.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1960.gif]
      3.   The edge of any freestanding sign nearest the property line must be
set back a minimum of five feet (5') from the property line. Freestanding signs
must not be installed within thirty feet (30') of any Residential District.
Freestanding signs proposed to be located on a corner lot must maintain a clear
vision triangular area and maximum of thirty six inches (36") to the top of the
sign structure. The clear vision triangle area on a corner lot will be
determined by measuring twenty feet (20') along both street side property lines
from their intersection or ten feet (10') from the intersection of a property
line adjacent and parallel to a public or private street or driveway. Where
there is one or more freestanding sign on a development site, the signs must be
spaced a minimum of sixty feet (60') apart.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1962.gif]
      4.   Signs will be mounted on two (2) parallel posts or an aggregate base
rather than a single post.
   B.   Building Mounted Signs: Building signs include signs that are flush
mounted on a building and signs attached to the building in some other manner.
Building mounted signs are allowed in all of the sign districts. The sign
district in which the property is located determines allowable square footage.
This would include, but not be limited to, the signs listed below.
      1.   Projecting Signs: One projecting sign is permitted per business. The
sign may not extend more than five feet (5') beyond the building and at least
eight feet (8') above the surface below. Such signs must be placed
perpendicular to the building face or corner of the building.
      2.   Awning/Canopy Signs: Awning/canopy signs may be used in conjunction
with other building mounted signs and would be placed on permanent or temporary
awning or canopy.
      3.   Building Wall Painting Signs: These signs would generally be painted
directly on the building wall and are permitted in all districts.
      4.   Hanging Signs: These signs would typically be found mounted on an
awning, canopy or other similar overhang on a building.
   C.   Measurement Of Sign Area: Sign area for the purpose of measuring total
square footage will be measured as a total of all sign faces including
multifaced signs 1 .
      1.   Sign Copy With Background: Sign copy mounted, affixed or painted on
a background panel or area distinctively painted, textured or constructed as a
background for the sign copy, is measured as that area contained within the sum
of the smallest rectangle(s) that will enclose both the sign copy and the
distinctive background panel or area.
      2.   Individual Letters: Sign copy mounted as individual letters or
graphics against a wall, fascia, mansard or parapet of a building or surface of
another structure, that has not been painted, textured or otherwise altered to
provide a distinctive background for a sign copy, is measured as a sum of the
smallest rectangle(s) that will enclose each word and each graphic in the total
sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1964.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1966.gif]
      3.   Area Calculation: Sign area for the purpose of measuring total
square footage will be measured as a total of all sign faces including multi-
faced signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1968.gif]
      4.   Sculptural Signs: Spherical, free-form, sculptural or other
nonplanar sign areas are forty percent (40%) of the sum of the areas using only
the four (4) vertical sides of the smallest four (4) sided polyhedron that will
encompass the sign structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1970.gif]
   D.   Measurement Of Sign Height: Sign height will be measured as described
below:
      1.   Freestanding Signs: Sign height is the distance measured from the
centerline of the adjacent road right-of-way to the topmost portion of the sign
containing lettering when the sign is below the grade of said street. When the
sign is at or above the grade of the street, the sign height is measured from
the grade at the base of a sign to the topmost portion of the sign area
containing the lettering. Architectural embellishments that do not exceed more
than twenty five percent (25%) of the allowed height or square footage will not
be counted against the allowance. Architectural embellishments may exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the height with the approval of staff, upon
recommendation from the Architectural Review Committee.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1972.gif]
      2.   Building Mounted Signs: The height of wall, fascia, mansard, parapet
or other building mounted signs is the vertical distance measured from the base
of the wall on which the sign is located to the top of the sign or sign
structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1974.gif]
   E.   Lighting:
      1.   Lighting must be designed, located, shielded and directed to prevent
misdirected or excessive artificial light and to maximize energy efficiency.
Lighting must have adequate shielding or screening so it does not cast glare or
direct light from artificial illumination upon any adjacent public right-of-
way, surrounding property, residential property or motorist's vision. Downward
directed lighting is encouraged.
      2.   Internally illuminated individual letters and internally illuminated
signs are prohibited in all districts. Canopies, awnings, fascia and similar
structures, whether or not they contain sign copy, may not be intentionally
illuminated with direct internal illumination. Canopies, awnings, and fascias
which are only minimally and indirectly illuminated may be permitted if, in the
determination of the Zoning Administrator, they do not attract attention to a
location or subject matter. Wood signs and signs made of natural materials
externally lit are encouraged.
      3.   Use of neon and/or other lighting arranged around a building, sign
or other structure for the purpose of attracting attention is prohibited.
      4.   Because night light pollution is a growing problem, reduction or
turning off sign lighting during nonoperating hours is encouraged.
   F.   Total Number Of Signs: Commercial, industrial, institutional and other
nonresidential uses are allowed one freestanding sign per developed site unless
the developed site has highway frontage in excess of one hundred fifty feet
(150') in which case one freestanding sign per one hundred fifty feet (150') is
allowed as provided for in these regulations. Up to a maximum of three (3)
individual building signs are permitted. A combination of any of the permitted
signs is allowed provided they do not exceed the total square footage allowed
under the sign district in which the property is located.
   G.   Multiple Businesses On A Single Development Site: A master sign plan
will be required for all multiuse buildings and commercial developments
containing more than one tenant and/or building that will be kept on file with
the City. The master sign plan must be approved prior to issuance of a building
permit for all new buildings, additions or renovations. The master sign plan
will run with the multiuse building or commercial center and not with the
individual tenants.
   H.   Alley Entrance And Signs: Signs located on rear public entrances to
individual businesses must not exceed six (6) square feet in area, eight feet
(8') in height and will be flush mounted to the wall. Business establishments
accessible only from an alleyway are permitted one flush mounted building sign
up to sixteen (16) square feet in area and eight feet (8') in height in a
location of closest proximity to the business whether on or off the premises.
   I.   Businesses Without Frontage On A Public Road: Where a business is
located on a parcel without frontage on a public road and is served by an
easement through a parcel with frontage, the business without frontage is
entitled to a freestanding sign, provided the parcel and easement were created
prior to June 19, 2000. The parcel without frontage must incorporate its sign,
and be shared equally, into the freestanding sign of the parcel with frontage.
The total square foot area allowed for the freestanding sign will be based on
the multi-tenant sign allowance for its underlying sign district. Signage
conforming to this provision is not considered off premises signage.
   J.   Compliance With Building And Electrical Codes: All signs must be
constructed in accordance with the requirements of the Building Code and the
Montana State Electrical Code. Electrical wiring must be placed underground.
   K.   Manual Changeable Copy Sign: A permanent sign incorporating manual
changeable copy (reader board) allowed by this title may not exceed sixteen
(16) square feet (24 square feet in the Highway District). Changeable copy is
limited to five (5) lines of lettering and numbers not exceeding six inches
(6") (8 inches in the Highway District) in height except as otherwise provided.
   L.   Abandoned Signs: Signs that advertise a business, goods, service or
property no longer provided on the premises must be removed within thirty (30)
days of the use being vacated.
   M.   Removal And Replacement Of Nonconforming Signs: All nonconforming signs
must be removed or brought into compliance with these regulations at the
occurrence of any of the following events:
      1.   The sign is removed, relocated or replaced for any reason, with the
exception of temporary removal if required as part of a road maintenance or
construction project in a public right-of- way.
      2.   Cessation or change of the business to which the sign pertains, and
a new sign is placed on the site.
      3.   The structure or size of the sign is altered in any way including
the change of internal or changeable popout panels in the Highway District or
change of sign copy on the sign. This does not include signs intended to have
manual changeable copy of individual letters or figures that are regularly or
routinely changed. Where the change in signage is for a single tenant of a
multi-tenant building, this clause does not apply.
      4.   Signs that flash, blink or rotate must cease flashing, blinking or
rotating.
      5.   Whenever the sign is damaged or destroyed in any manner to the
extent that the cost of restoration exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the total
cost of reconstructing a conforming sign.
      6.   Signs previously granted a variance will be treated the same as any
other nonconforming sign and will be brought into compliance as required by
these regulations.
      7.   Abandonment of a sign for a continuous period of thirty (30) days.
      8.   The building official determines the sign is an immediate hazard to
the public health, safety and welfare because of the disrepair, unsafe
mounting, imminent dislodging or other safety factor.
   N.   Display Of Street Numbers: Each business will include the street
numbers on the face of the building or sign. The numbers will be visible for
easy identification of the property. Street numbers do not count against the
allowable sign allowance when computing square footage where the number is
incorporated on the sign.
   O.   Fuel Prime: The price per gallon may be:
      1.   Displayed on each individual pump with characters not exceeding six
inches (6") in height; or
      2.   Displayed as changeable copy, not exceeding six inches (6") in
height (8 inches in the Highway District) on the primary freestanding sign. An
existing freestanding sign may be increased by ten (10) square feet for this
purpose only. (Ord. 19-03, 2-4-2019; amd. Ord. 23-14, 8-21-2023; Ord. 24-13,
11-18-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See definition of "sign, area calculation" in section
  11-9-2 of this title.
11-5-6: ZONE DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
11-5-6-1: HIGHWAY DISTRICT:
The character of development in the Highway District generally includes single
use commercial buildings as well as multiple use shopping centers and strip
retail facilities, mostly single story in height. The area contains a mix of
tourist and local user businesses. The intent of regulating signs in this
district is to recognize the needs of auto oriented business while taking care
to avoid the clutter and confusion associated with linear highway development.
   A.   Lighting: Lighting of signs shall be designed to comply with the
following standards:
      1.   All lighting shall be designed, located, shielded and directed to
prevent misdirected or excessive artificial light and to maximize energy
efficiency. Lighting shall have adequate shielding or screening so that it does
not cast glare or direct light from artificial illumination upon any adjacent
public right-of-way, surrounding property, residential property or motorist's
vision. Downward directed lighting is encouraged.
      2.   Internally illuminated individual letters and internally illuminated
signs are prohibited. Wood signs and signs made of natural materials that are
externally lit are encouraged.
      3.   Use of neon and/or other lighting arranged around a building, sign
or other structure for the purpose of attracting attention is prohibited.
      4.   Because nighttime light pollution is a growing problem, reduction or
turning off sign lighting during nonoperating hours is encouraged.
   B.   Sign Regulations In The Highway District: The following special
provisions apply to signs in the Highway District.
      1.   Freestanding And Ground Mounted Signs: Every business or developed
site within the Highway District is allowed one freestanding or ground mounted
sign that does not exceed ten feet (10') in height. For lots that have less
than one hundred fifty feet (150') of property frontage, one freestanding sign
is allowed. For lots that have between one hundred fifty one feet (151') and
three hundred feet (300') of property frontage, two (2) freestanding signs are
allowed. For lots that have between three hundred one feet (301') and four
hundred fifty feet (450') of property frontage, three (3) freestanding signs
are allowed. Additional signs shall not exceed the maximum square footage that
is allowed in the district. All freestanding or ground mounted signs must have
landscaping around the base. A maximum of seventy five (75) square feet per
sign is allowed for each developed site utilizing a freestanding or ground
mounted sign.
The edge of any freestanding sign nearest the property line shall be set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from the property line.
      2.   Incidental Signs: Nonilluminated directional signs not exceeding two
(2) square feet may be placed at the entrance to a business and do not count
against the allowable square footage.
      3.   Display Of Street Numbers: Each business will include the street
numbers on the face of the building or sign. The numbers will be visible for
easy identification of the property. Street numbers do not count against the
allowable sign allowance when computing square footage where the number is
incorporated on the sign.
      4.   Building Mounted Signs: A maximum of three (3) building signs are
allowed in the Highway District on developed sites with a single business 1 .
         a.   Single Tenant Sites: The allowable sign area for a single tenant
building shall be one-half (0.5) square foot per linear foot of building
frontage.
         b.   Multiple Tenant Sites: The allowable sign area for multi- tenant
sites shall be calculated on the basis of six-tenths (0.6) square foot per
linear foot of building frontage.
      5.   Projecting Signs: One projecting sign is permitted per business and
cannot exceed twenty four (24) square feet per face; awning/canopy signs,
painted wall signs and flush mounted building signs may be used in conjunction
with a projecting sign provided the total square footage does not exceed that
which is allowed.
      6.   Multiple Businesses And Buildings Less Than One Hundred Thousand
Square Feet: A master sign plan is required for all multiuse buildings and
commercial developments containing more than one tenant and/or building. The
master sign plan must be approved prior to issuance of a building permit for
any new building, additions or renovations. The master sign plan shall run with
the multiuse building or commercial center and not with the individual tenants.
         a.   Each tenant is allowed one building mounted sign. The allowable
sign area is calculated on the basis of six-tenths (0.6) square foot per linear
foot of building frontage.
         b.   Developed sites with two (2) or more tenants and/or buildings
receive a base sign allowance of sixty five (65) square feet plus an additional
ten (10) square feet per tenant on a freestanding sign or signs. Where more
than one freestanding sign is allowed on a single business property, the
combined square footage cannot exceed the total allowable square footage for
the site.
      7.   Multiple Businesses And Buildings Greater Than One Hundred Thousand
Square Feet: A master sign plan is required for all multiuse buildings and
commercial developments containing more than one tenant and/or building. The
plan shall be negotiated on a project basis with each individual complex.
For any development to be vested under this provision, the owner or agent needs
to present the master sign plan to the review bodies within one year of
adoption of this title. Failure to meet the one year time frame would mean that
any nonconforming signage would fall under the provisions found in subsection
11-5-7D of this chapter.
      8.   Alley Entrance And Signs: Signs located on rear public entrances to
individual businesses shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area, eight feet
(8') in height and will be flush mounted to the wall. Business establishments
accessible only from an alleyway are permitted one sign flush mounted on the
building that does not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and eight feet
(8') in height in a location of closest proximity to the business on or off the
premises.
      9.   Neon Advertising Window Signs: Beer signs, open signs, etc., located
within the windows for view by the outside traffic are limited to four (4)
signs per business with a maximum size of three (3) square feet per sign.
      10.   Through Lots: The property shall have a "main" frontage, per the
definition in section
11-9-2 of this title, with the other being the "secondary" frontage. The
property is permitted a freestanding or ground mounted sign on the main
frontage. A second freestanding or ground mounted sign is permitted on the
"secondary" frontage that is seventy five percent (75%) of the sign size
permitted on the main frontage. (Ord. 19-03, 2-4-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-8-1, appendix G of this title.
11-5-6-2: OLD TOWN DISTRICT:
The building type and architecture predominant in this area consists of
storefront type buildings, some with significant architectural and historical
interest, which generally abut directly on the sidewalk. Buildings are
typically one- or two- story structures with retail activity occurring on the
street level and office or living quarters on the second story. Primary
orientation is to pedestrians with a strong emphasis toward creating a positive
image for the Town Center to both residents and tourists.
The intent of the sign standards in this district is to preserve and promote
the historic downtown area of the City, encourage pedestrian access and
emphasize the unique qualities inherent to Whitefish. These qualities are
viewed as an integral part of the City's economic vitality, stability and
growth. The area is characterized by narrow streets, small lots and narrow lot
frontages with buildings that are representative of the early development of
Whitefish. In creating a standard for the Old Town District, it is recognized
that signs contribute to the overall visual image and character of the area. As
a primary visual element of any commercial area, each sign should enhance the
visual character of the historic Town Center image.
   A.   Sign Regulations In Old Town District: The following provisions apply
to signs within the Old Town District:
      1.   Freestanding And Ground Mounted Signs: One freestanding or ground
mounted sign is allowed in the Old Town District per developed site. The sign
shall not exceed six feet (6') in height and shall be mounted on two (2)
parallel posts or an aggregate base. All freestanding or ground mounted signs
must have landscaping around the base. Freestanding or ground mounted signs are
allowed a maximum of twenty four (24) square feet plus five (5) square feet per
tenant in a multi-tenant site.
      2.   Building Mounted Signs: A maximum of two (2) building signs are
allowed in the Old Town District on developed sites with a single business.
Where a business is located on two (2) or more frontages, a total of three (3)
individual building signs are allowed. Multiple tenant sites are allowed one
building mounted sign and one sign hanging under the awning and over the
sidewalk per business. Multi-tenant buildings with an exposed side wall are
allowed two (2) building mounted signs and an under the awning sign. Allowable
area for a single tenant building shall be four-tenths (0.4) square foot per
linear foot of building frontage. Allowable area for multi-tenant sites shall
be calculated on the basis of one-half (0.5) square foot per linear foot of
building frontage. The maximum size of the sign under the awning is eight (8)
square feet per face and shall have a minimum clearance of seven feet (7')
above the sidewalk. The awning sign is included in the allowable sign area.
      3.   Projecting Signs: One projecting sign is permitted per business that
does not exceed sixteen (16) square feet per face. Awning/canopy signs, painted
wall signs and flush mounted building signs may be used in conjunction with a
projecting sign provided the total square footage does not exceed that which is
allowed.
      4.   Multiple Business Signage 1 : Where a single common entrance serves
two (2) or more businesses, they are considered one business for sign
computation purposes. A single business operating on a second story, accessed
by an entrance at sidewalk level, is allowed one building mounted sign located
adjacent to such entrance at the sidewalk level. A sign for multiple businesses
on a second story shall be adjacent to the sidewalk level doorway. A master
sign plan shall be required for all multiuse buildings and commercial
developments containing more than one tenant and/or building. The master sign
plan shall run with the multiuse building or commercial center and not with the
individual tenants.
      5.   Alley Entrance Signs: Signs located on the rear public entrances to
individual businesses shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area and shall be
flush mounted on the building. Alley or rear entrance signs associated with
pedestrian walkways through buildings shall not exceed six (6) square feet in
area and shall be flush mounted on the building. One sign for business
establishments accessible only from an alleyway are permitted provided they are
flush mounted on the building, do not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area
and placed in a location of closest proximity to the business(es) whether on or
off the premises. Such signs do not count toward the overall sign area or
building mounted sign totals.
      6.   Portable Signs: One ”sandwich board” or "A-frame" sign is allowed
per storefront street level entrance, including multi-tenant buildings, subject
to the following:
         a.   An A-frame sign, inclusive of any frame or supports, must not
exceed six (6) square feet per side or be more than two feet (2') wide.
         b.   An A-frame sign must maintain a minimum of four feet (4') of
unobstructed sidewalk pedestrian passage parallel to the street.
         c.   Changeable copy signs with manually changeable plastic slide-in
individual letters are not permitted.
         d.   Neither illumination nor electronic components are permitted on
A-frame signs.
         e.   Streamers, balloons, windsocks, flags, or other materials
attached to the A-frame sign are not permitted.
         f.   A-frame signs must be located within fifteen feet (15') of the
storefront entrance.
         g.   A-frame sign placement may not obstruct an entrance to a
building, steps, sidewalk, driveway, or wheelchair ramp.
         h.   No A-frame sign shall be placed within the roadway, median, or
required off-street parking spaces.
         i.   A-frame signs must remain in good condition and be constructed
and weighted to avoid being blown or knocked over and creating a hazard.
         j.   Any person or business placing an A-frame sign on public
property, including sidewalks, assumes any and all liability for any loss,
damage, or injury sustained by a person as a result of the negligent
installation, placement, use, or maintenance of the sign in a public space.
         k.   A-frame signs may only be displayed during hours of operation.
         l.   Signs that do not meet the above requirements, are deemed
hazardous, are left out when the business is closed, or that block sight vision
triangle clearances will be removed b the city per section
11-5-7 -F.
      7.   Neon Signs: Neon is prohibited in the Old Town District.
         a.   Neon signs may be approved for an artistic rendering with a
conditional use permit.
         b.   Area for neon graphics will be calculated as the area contained
within the sum of the smallest rectangle(s) that will enclose the graphic.
         c.   Neon advertising (beer signs, open signs, etc.) located within
the windows for view by the outside traffic is limited to four (4) signs per
business with a maximum size of three (3) square feet per sign.
      8.   Display Of Street Numbers: Each business will include the street
numbers on the face of the building or sign. The numbers will be visible for
easy identification of the property. Street numbers do not count against the
allowable sign allowance when computing square footage where the number is
incorporated on the sign.
      9.   Edge Setback: The edge of any freestanding sign nearest the property
line shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from the property line.
      10.   Window Signs: Window signs are limited to a maximum coverage of
twenty percent (20%) of the window area, and no more than fifty percent (50%)
of the window area may be covered by interior furnishings, including, but not
limited to, curtains, shades, signs, or shelves.
   B.   Lighting: Lighting of signs shall be designed to comply with the
following standards:
      1.   All lighting shall be designed, located, shielded and directed to
prevent misdirected or excessive artificial light and to maximize energy
efficiency. Lighting shall have adequate shielding or screening so that it does
not cast glare or direct light from artificial illumination upon any adjacent
public right-of-way, surrounding property, residential property or motorist's
vision. Downward directed lighting is encouraged.
      2.   No sign shall be internally illuminated. Internally illuminated
individual letters are prohibited.
      3.   Wood signs and signs made of natural materials are encouraged.
      4.   Because nighttime light pollution is a growing problem, reduction or
turning off sign lighting during nonoperating hours is encouraged. (Ord. 19-03,
2-4-2019; amd. Ord, 24-13, 11-18-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-8-1, appendix G of this title.
11-5-6-3: COMMUNITY BUSINESS AND RESORT DISTRICTS:
The character of development in this area includes mixed residential and retail
uses with the retail uses being located primarily along arterial roadways to
serve local community residents as well as multiple use, tourist-oriented
centers and vehicular traffic because limited pedestrian access is available.
The intent of regulating signs in this district is to recognize the needs of
business while encouraging a local neighborhood business orientation. A primary
intent is to ensure long term compatibility of the business, residential and
tourism uses in this district by creating a complementary atmosphere that
enhances all elements.
   A.   Sign Regulations: The following provisions apply to signs within this
district:
      1.   Freestanding And Ground Mounted Signs: One freestanding or ground
mounted sign is allowed per developed site that does not exceed six feet (6')
in height. All freestanding or ground mounted signs must be mounted on two (2)
parallel posts or an aggregate base and must have landscaping around the base.
Freestanding or ground mounted signs are allowed a maximum of twenty four (24)
square feet.
The edge of any freestanding sign nearest the property line shall be set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from the property line.
      2.   Building Mounted Signs: A maximum of one building sign per business
is allowed on developed sites with a single business. Total square footage for
building mounted signs may not exceed twenty four (24) square feet.
      3.   Projecting Signs: One projecting sign is permitted per business. An
awning/canopy sign, painted wall sign or flush mounted building sign may be
used in lieu of a projecting sign provided the total square footage does not
exceed that which is allowed.
      4.   Multiple Business Signs: Where a single common entrance serves two
(2) or more businesses, they are considered one business for sign computation
purposes. A single business operating on a second story accessed by an entrance
at sidewalk level is allowed one building mounted sign located adjacent to the
entrance at sidewalk level. A sign for multiple businesses on a second story
shall be adjacent to the entrance level doorway.
         a.   Freestanding Signs: One sign per development site that does not
exceed six feet (6') in height. Developed sites with two (2) or more tenants
receive a base sign allowance of twenty four (24) square feet plus an
additional five (5) square feet per tenant.
         b.   Building Mounted Signs: One per tenant not to exceed twenty four
(24) square feet for lots forty (40) linear feet of building frontage and less
or twenty four (24) square feet plus six-tenths (0.6) square foot per linear
foot of building frontage in excess of forty (40) linear feet. In addition,
five (5) square feet per tenant.
   B.   Lighting: Lighting of signs shall be designed to comply with the
following standards:
      1.   All lighting shall be designed, located, shielded and directed to
prevent misdirected or excessive artificial light and to maximize energy
efficiency. Lighting shall have adequate shielding or screening so that it does
not cast glare or direct light from artificial illumination upon any adjacent
public right-of-way, surrounding property, residential property or motorist's
vision. Downward directed lighting is encouraged.
      2.   No sign shall be internally illuminated. Individually internally
illuminated letters are prohibited.
      3.   Wood signs and signs made of natural materials are encouraged.
      4.   Because nighttime light pollution is a growing problem, reduction or
turning off sign lighting during nonoperating hours is encouraged.
   C.   Neon Signs: Neon is prohibited in the Community Business and Resort
District.
      1.   Neon signs may be approved for an artistic rendering with a
conditional use permit.
      2.   Area for neon graphics will be calculated as the area contained
within the sum of the smallest rectangle(s) that will enclose the graphic.
      3.   Neon advertising (beer signs, open signs, etc.) located within the
windows for view by the outside traffic is limited to four (4) signs per
business with a maximum size of three (3) square feet per sign.
   D.   Display Of Street Numbers: Each business will include the street
numbers on the face of the building or sign. The numbers will be visible for
easy identification of the property. Street numbers do not count against the
allowable sign allowance when computing square footage where the number is
incorporated on the sign. (Ord. 19-03, 2-4-2019)
11-5-6-4: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
The character of development in this area is residential with limited home-
based businesses or limited nonresidential uses. The primary orientation is to
the neighborhoods and its residents with a strong emphasis on pedestrians.
While the areas contain some home-based business and limited tourism-oriented
businesses such as bed and breakfasts, the intent of regulating signs in this
district is to recognize that these are residential neighborhoods that require
signs that do not compete with the residential character of these districts.
   A.   Sign Regulations In Residential Districts: The following provisions
apply to signs within this district:
      1.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs are only permitted for
residential subdivision, multi-family residences, nonresidential conditional
uses, or public uses. One freestanding sign is permitted per multi-family
residence or nonresidential conditional use and may not exceed ten (10) square
feet or four feet (4') in height. Freestanding signs for parks and other public
uses may not exceed fifteen (15) square feet or six feet (6') in height.
Freestanding signs must be mounted on two (2) parallel poles, landscaped around
the base and be made of natural materials and colors. One subdivision sign is
permitted per entrance on streets with different names not exceeding twenty
four (24) square feet per face nor exceeding four feet (4') in height. The
subdivision may have multiple signs at the entrance, provided the total square
footage of signs at the entrance does not exceed twenty four (24) square feet.
The edge of any freestanding sign nearest the property line shall be set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from the property line.
      2.   Building Mounted Signs: No more than one (1) 2-square foot sign
flush mounted on the building is allowed per property that identifies a home-
based business or other residential use allowed by the zoning regulations.
   B.   Lighting: No sign shall be internally or externally illuminated.
   C.   Neon Lighting: Neon lighting of any kind is prohibited in this
district. (Ord. 19-03, 2-4-2019; amd. Ord, 24-13, 11-18-2024)
11-5-6-5: BUSINESS SERVICE DISTRICT:
The intent of regulating signs in this district is to recognize the needs and
nature of the businesses along the highway corridors while avoiding conflicts
with the rural areas in which they are generally located. The signs should be
architecturally compatible with each other and with the buildings in the areas
in which they are located. All of the signs in this district shall also be
subject to the general and specific sign standards provided for in this
chapter.
   A.   Lighting: Lighting of signs shall be designed to comply with the
outdoor lighting ordinance and the following standards:
      1.   All lighting shall be designed, located, shielded and directed to
prevent light from leaving the property boundaries, to maximize energy
efficiency and be used in a complementary manner. Lighting shall be directed so
that it does not cast light into the view of traveling motorists or intrude
onto nearby residential properties. Downward, recessed lighting is encouraged
as the primary means of lighting signs.
      2.   Internally illuminated signs are prohibited. Back lit lighting on
individual letters for building mounted signs is allowed. Externally lit wood
signs and signs made of natural materials and color are encouraged as the
primary type of signs.
      3.   Use of neon and/or other lighting arranged around a building, sign
or other structure for the purpose of attracting attention is prohibited.
      4.   Because nighttime light pollution is a growing problem, reduction or
turning off sign lighting during nonoperating hours is encouraged.
   B.   Special Provisions: Sign regulations for the Business Service District
are subject to the following special provisions:
      1.   Freestanding And Ground Mounted Signs: Every property or developed
site within the Business Service District is allowed one freestanding, ground
mounted or monument sign that does not exceed eight feet (8') in height and
fifty (50) square feet per face. For lots that have less than two hundred fifty
feet (250') of property frontage, one freestanding sign is allowed. For lots
that have two hundred fifty feet (250') or more of property frontage, two (2)
freestanding signs are allowed. No property, regardless of the amount of
frontage, or status as a through lot or corner lot, shall exceed more than two
(2) signs.
         a.   Businesses located on a corner lot with frontage along two (2)
public roads may have a sign along each frontage provided that the signs may
not be located within the same building setback area.
         b.   The nearest edge of any freestanding sign shall be set back a
minimum of five feet (5') from the property line, right-of-way or road
easement.
      2.   Display Of Street Numbers: Each business will include the street
numbers on the face of the building or sign. The numbers will be visible for
easy identification of the property. Street numbers do not count against the
allowable sign allowance when computing square footage.
      3.   Building Mounted Signs: Each business within the Business Service
District shall be allowed a minimum of one building mounted sign subject to the
following standards:
         a.   Maximum Number Of Signs Allowed: A maximum of two (2) building
mounted signs are allowed in the Business Service District on developed sites
with a single business.
         b.   Single-Tenant Sites: The allowable sign area for a single- tenant
site shall be twenty four (24) square feet unless otherwise provided.
         c.   Multi-Tenant Sites: The allowable sign area for multi-tenant
sites shall be twenty four (24) square feet per tenant unless otherwise
provided.
         d.   Awning/Canopy Signs: One awning/canopy sign is allowed per
business or tenant in addition to a building mounted sign; provided, the total
sign area does not exceed the allowable square footage provided for building
mounted signs.
      4.   Projecting Signs: One projecting sign is permitted per business and
cannot exceed eight (8) square feet per face; awning/canopy signs, painted wall
signs and flush mounted building signs may be used in lieu of a projecting
sign; provided, the total square footage does not exceed that which is allowed.
      5.   Multiple Businesses: A master sign plan shall be submitted for all
multi-business buildings or developments containing more than one tenant and/or
building. The conceptual master sign plan must be approved prior to issuance of
a building permit or zoning compliance permit for any new building, additions
or renovations. The master sign plan shall run with the multiuse building and
not with the individual tenants.
         a.   Each tenant is allowed one building mounted sign not to exceed
twenty four (24) square feet or a maximum of thirty (30) square feet if
freestanding square footage is transferred to a building mounted sign.
         b.   Developed sites with two (2) or more tenants shall be allowed one
freestanding or ground mounted sign not to exceed fifty (50) square feet per
face, or as otherwise provided. Where more than one freestanding sign is
allowed for a single property, the total allowable square footage for each sign
shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet per face.
      6.   Internal Business Signs: Businesses accessible only from an interior
driveway are permitted an additional flush mounted building sign that does not
exceed twenty four (24) square feet in area.
      7.   Advertising Window Signs: Signs inside windows for view by the
outside traffic are limited to three (3) signs per business with a maximum size
of three (3) square feet per sign. These window signs are encouraged to have an
artistic graphic component. Neon is discouraged.
      8.   Through Lots: Properties that have a "main" frontage, per the
definition in section
11-9-2 of this title, with the other being the "secondary" frontage are
permitted a freestanding or ground mounted sign on the main frontage as
provided in this section. A second freestanding or ground mounted sign is
permitted on the "secondary" frontage that does not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet or six feet (6') in height. (Ord. 19-03, 2-4-2019)
11-5-7: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Permits Required: Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, all new
signs shall require permits. A permit is required for any substantial changes
to a sign including, but not limited to, a change of copy, design, size or
illumination of an existing sign. No permit is required for routine sign
maintenance such as painting, landscaping and manually changeable copy, nor for
the replacement of an individual sign panel for a new tenant on a permitted
multi-tenant sign that was designed with removable or replaceable sign panels.
      1.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit for the erection,
alteration or relocation of a sign shall be made to the City on a form provided
by the Zoning Administrator or designee and shall include the following
information.
         a.   Name and address of the sign owner, name and address of the
contractor installing the sign along with the business name and the name and
address of the property owner, if different from the sign owner.
         b.   Street address and/or location of the property where the sign is
to be located.
         c.   A site plan showing the dimensions of the property, building
location, driveway(s) and other relevant features including the proposed
location of the sign(s) on the site and/or on the building and existing signs
on the site.
         d.   The number and type of sign(s) or sign structures as defined in
these regulations and the district in which it is located.
         e.   Scaled drawing of the individual sign(s) which includes
specifications of the individual sign(s) showing the height, size, dimensions,
materials, colors, structural supports, landscaping, lighting and electrical
components and the total square footage for each sign face. All information
shall be provided in simple, nontechnical language.
         f.   It shall be the applicant's responsibility to become familiar
with the Whitefish sign regulations and to ensure that the proposed sign fully
complies with such regulations.
      2.   Permit Issuance: The Zoning Administrator or designee shall issue a
permit for the erection, alteration or relocation of a sign within fourteen
(14) calendar days of receipt of a valid permit application, provided the sign
complies with all applicable laws and regulations of the City. The failure of
the Zoning Administrator or designee to issue or deny a permit within fourteen
(14) calendar days shall not be cause for the automatic issuance of a permit. A
permit issued by the Zoning Administrator or designee becomes null and void if
work is not commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days of issuance. If work
authorized by the permit is abandoned or suspended for sixty (60) days, the
permit must be renewed with an additional payment of one-half (1/2) the
original fee. A permit mistakenly issued for a sign that does not comply with
the Whitefish sign regulations is null and void and confers no rights upon the
applicant.
      3.   Permit Denial: When the Zoning Administrator denies a permit,
written notice shall be given to the applicant with a brief statement of the
reasons for denial. No sign permit may be denied based upon the message
contained on the proposed sign. The Zoning Administrator or designee may
suspend or revoke an issued permit for any false statement or misrepresentation
of fact in the application.
      4.   Work Done Without A Permit: If any sign is installed or placed on
any property without a permit, the specified permit fee shall be doubled. This
does not in any way relieve the owner from fully complying with all of the
regulations relating to sign design. Payment of the doubled fee shall not
relieve any person of any other requirements or penalties prescribed in this
chapter.
   B.   Inspection Of Work: Any person installing, altering, or relocating a
sign for which a permit has been issued shall notify the Zoning Administrator
or designee upon completion of the work. The Zoning Administrator or designee
may require a final inspection, including an electrical inspection and
inspection of footings on freestanding signs. Upon the issuance of a permit,
the Zoning Administrator or designee may require in writing that notification
for inspection be given prior to the installation of certain signs.
   C.   Variances: No variances to the provisions of these regulations shall be
considered or granted except when an unforeseen circumstance presents itself
because of unique circumstances and written findings are made by the City
Council in accordance with the variance criteria outlined in these regulations.
Special consideration shall be given by the Council to grant exceptions for
nonconforming signs that are considered historic or are perceived as a
community icon with established community significance. To be so considered, a
sign must meet one of the following criteria.
      1.   Proof is provided that it is at least forty (40) years old and is
either identified with the history of a product, business or service advertised
or is integrated into the architectural style of the building on which located.
      2.   Recognized as a popular focal point of the area by reason of its
prominent location, long existence, retro appearance or unusual design, and
that exemplifies the City's cultural or architectural history.
   D.   Removal Of Abandoned, Hazardous Or Illegal Signs:
      1.   If, upon inspection, a sign is determined to be abandoned;
structurally, materially or electrically defective; illegal or in any way
endangers the public, the Zoning Administrator or designee will issue a written
order to the owner of the sign and occupant of the premises stating the nature
of the violation and requiring repair or removal of the sign within fifteen
(15) days of the date of the order. Such order shall notify the owner of his
right to a hearing before the Zoning Administrator or designee within a fifteen
(15) day period and warn that the offending sign may be removed or otherwise
altered by the City upon expiration of such period. If the sign has not been
removed at the conclusion of the fifteen (15) days, it is subject to removal by
the City at the owner's expense, including administrative costs. Alternatively,
if removal is not feasible or would be unduly expensive in the opinion of the
Zoning Administrator or designee, the sign may be covered over with an opaque
material. Any removal, covering or other action taken by the City shall be done
in the presence of a Whitefish police officer, which shall prepare a report of
what occurred. After removal or demolition of this sign, a notice shall be
mailed to the sign owner stating the nature of work, the date on which it was
performed and requiring payment of the costs as certified by the Zoning
Administrator or designee together with an additional ten percent (10%) fee for
inspection and incidental costs. It shall be unlawful for any person to: a)
interfere with any City employee who removes, covers or takes any other action
regarding a sign as permitted by this section; b) reinstall a sign that has
been removed; or c) remove a cover installed over a sign. If a sign is
reinstalled after its removal, or uncovered after it has been covered, the City
may again remove it, or recover it, without further notice.
      2.   If the amount specified in the notice is not paid within thirty (30)
days of the notice, it becomes a lien against the property of the sign owner
and will be certified as an assessment against the property for collection in
the same manner as the Real Estate Taxes. In the case where a sign is proposed
to be located, constructed, maintained, repaired, altered or otherwise used in
violation of this title, the sign shall constitute a nuisance. The City may, as
an alternative to other remedies that are legally available, institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement or other appropriate proceedings to prevent,
enjoin, temporarily or permanently abate or remove the unlawful location,
construction, maintenance, repair, alteration or use.
   E.   Violation: The Zoning Administrator or designee will send notice of a
violation of these regulations to the business address and the property owner,
if different, when a violation of this chapter is observed. The owner will have
fifteen (15) days to correct the violation. If the violation is not remedied,
the Zoning Administrator or designee shall treat the violation as a Municipal
infraction, or alternatively, shall direct the City Attorney to issue a civil
complaint and a summons or initiate a criminal prosecution, or both. A
violation of these sign regulations shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall
constitute a Municipal infraction. The criminal fine and civil penalty for a
violation of this chapter shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day that
a violation remains after notice to the owner as described above, shall
constitute a separate violation of these sign regulations. An owner who has
been previously convicted of, or has previously been assessed a civil penalty
for, the same or similar offense shall be fined (or assessed a civil penalty)
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each further violation, with each day after
notice constituting a separate violation.
   F.   Removal Of Temporary Signs: As an alternative to the procedures set
forth in subsections D and E of this section, the Zoning Administrator or
designee shall be authorized to physically remove any temporary signs
determined to be in violation of the zoning jurisdiction regulations without
prior notice to the owner of the sign. With respect to all temporary signs that
are physically removed, such signs may be disposed of, but a notice of the
right to reclaim the sign shall be sent by first class mail to the owner, if
known, thirty (30) days prior to disposal. The City may charge a storage and
handling fee for signs left longer than one week. Temporary signs shall
include, but not be limited to, garage sale signs, real estate "for sale", "for
rent", or "open house" signs, banners, "A" frame signs, signs attached to
public property, and other signs that were authorized by a temporary sign
permit that has expired. A temporary sign whose physical removal is authorized
by this subsection may, after appropriate notice, be disposed of through
destruction, placement in a solid waste receptacle, or other means. It shall be
lawful for the Zoning Administrator or designee to enter upon private property
to physically remove a sign pursuant to this subsection unless such entry would
cause significant physical damage or a breach of the peace. (Ord. 19-03, 2-4-
2019)
CHAPTER 6
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-6-1: General Requirements
11-6-2: Parking Space Requirements
11-6-3: Special Conditions
11-6-3-1: WCR, WSR, WER, WLR, WR-1, WR-2, WR-3, WR-4, WT-3, WRR-1 And WRR-
2 Districts
11-6-3-2: WB-1, WB-2, WB-4, WRB-1, WRB-2, WI-T, WB-T, WBSD And WI Districts
11-6-3-3: WB-3 District
11-6-3-4: WBMV And WBMRR Districts
11-6-4: Off Street Parking Design Standards
11-6-5: Landscaping And Screening
11-6-6: Lighting
11-6-7: Off Street Loading
11-6-8: Street And Roadway Access Standards
11-6-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Parking Spaces Required: Except as herein provided, no building or
structure can be erected, altered or converted to any use that requires more
parking unless there is provided on the lot or parcel vehicle parking of at
least the following ratio of vehicle spaces for the uses specified in the
designated districts, and all roadways comply with the standards contained
herein, except that an established use lawfully existing at the effective date
of this title need not provide parking or roadways as herein set forth and that
no existing vehicle parking or roadways may be reduced or further reduced below
the minimum standards herein required.
   B.   Parking Space Measurements:
      1.   A standard vehicle parking space must measure no smaller than nine
feet by seventeen and one-half feet (9' x 171/2'), plus two and one-half feet
(21/2') front overhang.
      2.   A compact parking space must be no smaller than eight feet by
sixteen feet (8' x 16'). No more than twenty percent (20%) of the off street
parking requirement can be met by the use of compact spaces, and all such
spaces must be suitably marked on the site.
      3.   When units or measurements determining the number of required off
street parking and off street loading spaces results in a requirement of a
fractional space, any fraction up to one-half (1/2) must be disregarded, and
fractions of one-half (1/2) and over require one off street parking or loading
space.
   C.   Shared Parking And Off-Site Parking: Shared parking is encouraged to
reduce impervious surface and stormwater runoff and conserve land resources.
Shared parking and off-site parking can be approved subject to the following
standards below:
      1.   The building or use requesting shared parking provided by another
building or use or a parking lot at an off-site location must maintain
ownership of the parking or enter into a long-term joint-use agreement
revocable with City approval and reviewed by the City Attorney and filed with
the City Clerk, running with the term of the designated uses. If the agreement
is no longer in force, then parking must be provided as otherwise required by
this chapter.
      2.   The building or use for which an application is being made for
shared parking must be located within 800 feet from the nearest parking space
to the common entrance of the principal use served.
      3.   The applicant must demonstrate there is no substantial overlap in
the peak operating hours of the two buildings or uses sharing the parking
facilities.
      4.   Up to 50% of parking spaces required by this ordinance for non-
residential uses can be shared with an adjacent use.
      5.   Up to 100% of the parking spaces required by this ordinance for a
church building or for an assembly facility incidental to a public or private
school, may be supplied by the off-street parking lots provided by uses
primarily of a "daytime" nature.
      6.   Up to 100% of parking spaces required by this ordinance for multi-
family and the multi-family portion of a mixed-use facility can be shared with
an adjacent use.
      7.   Off-site parking for multi-family dwellings must be located no more
than 300 feet from any commonly used entrance of the principal use served.
      8.   Off-site parking for non-residential uses must be located within
1,000 feet from the entrance of the principal use. The distance is measured on
a pedestrian route of travel such as a sidewalk from the nearest parking space
to the entrance of the principal use served.
      9.   Reasonable continuous pedestrian and vehicle access from off-site
parking facilities to the use being served must be provided.
      10.   Off-site parking for single-family through fourplex dwellings is
not permitted.
      11.   Required ADA accessible parking spaces may not utilize shared or
off-site parking but must be located as near as possible to the entrance of the
principal use served.
   D.   Required off-street parking spaces listed below are in addition to all
ADA handicap parking spaces required by the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-6-2: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
A. Residential:  
A. Residential:                           
  One-family dwelling                   2 spaces per dwelling unit
  Two-family dwelling                   2 spaces per dwelling unit
  Triplex and fourplex dwellings        2 spaces per dwelling unit
                                         1 space per dwelling unit in all
                                         commercial zoning districts,
                                         otherwise: 1 space per studio/
                                         efficiency unit; 1.5 spaces per one-
  Multi-family dwelling                 bedroom unit; 2 spaces per two-bedroom
                                         or larger units; unless reduced
                                         through approved housing mitigation
                                         plan pursuant to section
                                         11-1A-5 of this title for two- bedroom
                                         or larger units
   Dwelling unit occupied by 4 or more   2 spaces per 3 individuals; plus 1
  individuals related by blood,         additional space for each additional
   marriage or adoption                  individual exceeding 3
  Boarding house                        1 space per guestroom; plus 1 space
                                         for the resident family
   Elderly housing projects (where 90
  percent of the units are occupied by  1/2 space per dwelling or lodging unit
   persons 60 years of age or over)
   Homes for the aged, disabled or       1 space per 5 beds for bed care
  handicapped                           patients; plus 1 space for every other
                                         dwelling or lodging unit
  Manufactured home parks               2 spaces for each manufactured home 1
                                         space for each tiny home
B. Commercial accommodations:             
                                         2 spaces for the resident family or
  Bed and breakfast                     manager, 1 space per room rented and 1
                                         space for each 2 outside employees per
                                         maximum shift
                                         1 space per guestroom or suite; plus 1
  Hotels, motels and cabins             space for every 2 employees per
                                         maximum shift
                                         1 space per unit; 1 space for every 5
  Recreational vehicle parks and        units for guest parking; and 1 space
   campgrounds                           for every 10 units for excess vehicle
                                         storage
C. Institution:                           
  Animal hospitals, pounds, shelters or 1 space per 400 square feet of gross
   commercial kennels                    floor space (minimum of 4 spaces)
   Auditoriums, theaters, churches or    1 space per 5 seats or 40 square feet
  other places of assembly              of gross floor area used for assembly
                                         purposes, whichever is greater
                                         1 space per 2 beds, 1 space for each
  Hospitals                             staff doctor, and 1 space for each 4
                                         employees per maximum shift
  Libraries, museums and art galleries  1 space for every 500 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
  Mortuaries                            1 space per 75 square feet of gross
                                         floor area used for assembly
D. Schools:                               
  Daycare                               1 space per 8 adults and supervised
                                         children
                                         1 space per employee and faculty
  Elementary and junior high schools    member, but not less than the assembly
                                         facility area requirement of 1 space
                                         per 4 seats
                                         1 space for every 25 students; plus 1
                                         space for each employee and faculty
  High schools and colleges             member, but not less than the assembly
                                         facility area requirement of 1 space
                                         per 4 seats
E. Recreational areas:                    
  Bowling alleys                        6 spaces per alley
  Golf courses                          3 spaces per hole of main course
   Private clubs and lodges, special     1 space per 8 seats; plus 1 space for
  centers, athletic club and similar    every 100 square feet of assembly
   recreational facilities               space without 1 space per 8 seats
   Stadiums, special arenas and similar  1 space per 8 seats; plus 1 space for
  open assemblies                       every 100 square feet of assembly
                                         space without seats
  Outdoor courts without seating /      1.5 spaces per court
   viewing areas
F. Food and beverage establishments:      
  Drive-in restaurants                  1 space per 80 square feet of gross
                                         floor area, (minimum 10 spaces)
                                         1. If less than 4,000 square feet of
                                         floor area, 1 space per 100 square
                                         feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space
                                         per table in outdoor seating areas
   Restaurants, cafeterias, food and     2. If more than 4,000 square feet of
   beverage establishments               floor area, 40 spaces, plus 1 space
                                         per table in outdoor seating areas and
                                         1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                         floor area in excess of 4,000 square
                                         feet
G. Banks and offices:                     
  Banks and financial institutions      1 space per 400 square feet of gross
                                         floor area
  Medical and dental offices            1 space per 150 square feet of gross
                                         floor area
   Offices not providing customer        1 space per 4 employees, but not less
  services                              than 1 per 400 square feet of gross
                                         floor area
  Professional offices                  1 space per 400 square feet of gross
                                         floor area
H. Businesses:                            
  Retail or personal service stores     1 space per 300 square feet of gross
                                         floor area
  Service and gas stations and car      3 spaces per service bay or stacking
   washes                                for 3 vehicles at each bay
I. Manufacturing and warehousing:         
   Manufacturing uses, research testing  1 space per 2 employees on a maximum
  and processing, assembling, all       shift, but not less than 1 space for
   industries                            every 800 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
  Warehouse, storage and wholesale      1 space for every 800 square feet of
   business and freight terminals        gross floor area
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 18-10, 4-16-2018; Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; Ord.
23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-6-3: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
11-6-3-1: WCR, WSR, WER, WLR, WR-1, WR-2, WR-3, WR-4, WT-3, WRR-1 AND WRR-
2 DISTRICTS:
   A.   The parking or storage of any truck or truck trailer in excess of one
ton for more than twenty four (24) hours in any three (3) day period is not
allowed in the front or side yard setbacks.
   B.   All parking areas and access driveways must have at a minimum:
      1.   For all nonresidential uses and residential uses consisting of three
(3) or more units per building, paved hard surfaces must be provided.
Acceptable surface treatments include, but are not necessarily limited to,
concrete, asphalt, paving bricks, and paving stone. Turf block and “grass-
crete” type products may be used subject to the approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
      2.   For all newly constructed one- and two-family residential uses, the
first eighty feet (80') of any driveway must be a paved hard surface. The
required eighty feet (80') must be measured from the nearest paved surface,
even if the required paving is off site. Acceptable surface treatments shall
include, but are not necessarily limited to, concrete, asphalt, paving bricks,
paving stones, and milled asphalt/aggregate mix provided that it is dust free.
Permeable asphalt, concrete, turf block or other permeable surface products may
be used subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator. Any driveway
length beyond the first eighty feet (80') from a paved surface must be (at a
minimum) a smooth stabilized dust free surface. Surface treatment of driveway
access which also serves as fire access shall meet the requirements and
specifications of the local Fire Marshal, which shall supersede the general
requirements contained herein. Any one- or two-family residential use which is
a nonconforming use under subsection
11-7-11A of this title with respect to the condition of driveway paving is
required to conform to the driveway paving requirements herein only when such
nonconforming use expands its floor area by fifty percent (50%) or greater.
      3.   Maintenance of all parking and drive areas and surfaces to the
standards prescribed herein is the responsibility of the property owner. Paved
hard surfaces must not be allowed to accumulate dust, dirt, mud, or other
debris.
      4.   Adequate drainage so that injuries will not be caused to adjacent
properties nor will water drain across a public walk.
      5.   Appropriate bumper guards or curbs where needed to define parking
spaces, limits of paved areas or to prevent vehicles from projecting into any
setback or other portion of a lot where parking may be prohibited by another
section of this title.
   C.   Except for single-family and duplex housing, parking (whether required
or not) and parking lot driving aisles must not be located in the front yard
setback.
   D.   Uncovered open air parking is not allowed in required buffers or the
side yard setbacks and rear yard setbacks to serve fourplex or larger
residential uses and all nonresidential uses allowed when that use abuts a
single-family use or zone. When the abutting use or zone is not single-family,
open air parking may be allowed in required buffers or setbacks, provided a
five foot (5') landscaping and solid screening area is provided adjacent to the
adjoining property boundary or a public right of way.
   E.   The parking of recreational vehicles in the side yard setbacks whether
for storage or use is prohibited.
   F.   Boat and recreational vehicle storage areas designed to serve the
residents of a development with a homeowners’ association or some other
formalized unit owners’ organization must comply with the following standards:
      1.   The storage area is designed to only serve the residents of the
development and is not open to the general public. The area for storage is
located wholly within the development or immediately adjacent to the
development.
      2.   Open or enclosed storage areas must meet primary setback of the
underlying zone and are exempt from the paving requirements of subsection D of
this section.
      3.   Screening of open or enclosed storage areas must have either site
obscuring landscaping or fencing, subject to the requirements in subsection
11-3-11A of this title. Additional landscaping in the front setback of the
storage area may be necessary in order to fulfill the screening requirements.
      4.   All enclosed storage facilities must receive architectural review
approval prior to submitting an application for a building permit. All enclosed
facilities must meet the building height limits in subsection
11-3-2B of this title for an accessory structure. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd.
Ord. 05-05, 2-7-2005; Ord. 06-29, 10-16-2006; Ord. 09-05, 4-6-2009; Ord. 10-04,
2-1-2010; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023)
11-6-3-2: WB-1, WB-2, WB-4, WRB-1, WRB-2, WI-T, WB-T, WBSD AND WI DISTRICTS:
   A.   All parking areas and access driveways, unless developed for
recreational vehicle and boat storage according to section
11-3-32 of this title, must have at a minimum:
      1.   For all newly constructed nonresidential uses and residential uses
consisting of three (3) or more units per building, paved hard surfaces must be
provided. Acceptable surface treatments include, but are not necessarily
limited to, concrete, asphalt, paving bricks, and paving stone. Turf block and
“grass-crete” type products may be used for infrequent and/or overflow parking
subject to the approval of the zoning administrator.
      2.   For all one- and two-family residential uses, the first eighty feet
(80') of any driveway must be a paved hard surface. The required eighty feet
(80') must be measured from the nearest paved surface, even if the required
paving is off site. Acceptable surface treatments include, but are not
necessarily limited to, concrete, asphalt, paving bricks, paving stones, and
milled asphalt/aggregate mix provided that it is dust free. Any driveway length
beyond the first eighty feet (80') from a paved surface must be (at a minimum)
a smooth stabilized dust free surface. Surface treatment of driveway access
which also serves as fire access must meet the requirements and specifications
of the local fire marshal, which supersede the general requirements contained
herein. Any one- or two-family residential use which is a nonconforming use
under subsection
11-7-11A of this title with respect to the condition of driveway paving is
required to conform to the driveway paving requirements herein only when such
nonconforming use expands its floor area by fifty percent (50%) or greater.
      3.   Maintenance of all parking and drive areas and surfaces to the
standards prescribed herein is the responsibility of the property owner. Paved
hard surfaces must not be allowed to accumulate dust, dirt, mud, or other
debris.
      4.   Adequate drainage so that injuries will not be caused to adjacent
properties, nor will water drain across a public walk.
      5.   Appropriate bumper guards or curbs where needed to define parking
spaces, limits of paved areas, or to prevent vehicles from projecting into any
setback or other portion of a lot where parking may be prohibited by another
section of this title.
   B.   Each property owner or lessee is responsible to see that their
employees, visitors, guests or customers park in the designated parking areas.
   C.   Visitor, guest or customer drop off zones and parking must be provided
near visitor or customer entrances into buildings and shall be separated from
all day employee parking.
   D.   Required parking will not be permitted on any street nor (except for
single-family and duplex units) in a required front yard.
   E.   Parking for boats and/or other recreational vehicles must conform to
the special provisions of section
11-3-32 of this title. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 96-2, 1-16-1996; Ord.
06-29, 10-16-2006; Ord. 09-05, 4-6-2009; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-
21-2023)
11-6-3-3: WB-3 DISTRICT:
   A.   Except for paving requirements in subsection F of this section, all
nonresidential uses shall be exempt from the parking and loading requirements
of this title.
   B.   For residential uses located entirely on an upper level(s) above ground
floor nonresidential uses, one off street space per unit shall be provided. All
other residential uses shall comply with all parking and loading requirements
of section
11-6-2 of this chapter.
   C.   All parking areas, vehicle and equipment storage areas, and access
driveways shall be provided with a paved hard surface. Acceptable treatments
may include, but are not necessarily limited to, concrete, asphalt, paving
bricks, and paving stones.
   D.   Maintenance of all parking and drive areas and surfaces to the
standards prescribed herein shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
Paved hard surfaces shall not be allowed to accumulate dust, dirt, mud, or
other debris.
   E.   Required residential parking will not be permitted on any street nor
(except for single-family and duplex units) in front of the building setback
line.
   F.   All commercial uses, including nonconforming commercial uses existing
prior to April 15, 1982, which do not have paved parking lots and access
driveways shall have until September 30, 1996, to pave and maintain them in a
dust free condition. Failure to do so will constitute a violation of these
regulations. (Ord. 06-29, 10-16-2006)
11-6-3-4: WBMV AND WBMRR DISTRICTS:
 
Day skier parking                      1,500 spaces
Single-family                          2.0 off street spaces per unit
Townhouse                              1.75 off street spaces per unit
Condominium (2 bedroom or greater)     1.0 space per unit
Condominium (1 bedroom)                0.8 space per unit
Condominium studio/lodge/hotel room    0.5 space per unit
 
(Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006)
11-6-4: OFF STREET PARKING DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Total parking area shall be broken into sections not to exceed forty
(40) cars. Each section shall be separated by internal drives to improve
traffic circulation.
   B.   All parking spaces must be designated properly by painted lines or
other approved methods.
   C.   One access shall be allowed per lot as they exist on the effective date
of this title, or one access shall be allowed for each two hundred feet (200')
of frontage. Minimum distance between accesses shall be one hundred feet (100')
except for service stations where only two (2) accesses are allowed per lot
with one frontage; a third access shall be allowed for the other street
frontage on corner lots 1 . (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. For additional design standards, see appendix A of this title.
11-6-5: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING:
See chapter 4 of this title.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 00-13, 11-20-2000; Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
11-6-6: LIGHTING:
All parking lot lighting shall conform to section
11-3-25, "Outdoor Lighting Standards", of this title. (Ord. 06-16, 7-17-2006)
11-6-7: OFF STREET LOADING:
   A.   Size: Each off street loading space shall measure not less than thirty
five feet by twelve feet (35' x 12') and shall have an unobstructed height of
fourteen feet six inches (14'6"), shall be made permanently available for such
purposes, and shall be surfaced, improved and maintained.
   B.   Expansion And Enlargement: Whenever any building existing on the
effective date of this title is subsequently altered to increase floor area by
fifty percent (50%) or more, off street loading spaces shall be provided as
indicated. Nothing in these provisions shall be construed to require off street
loading areas for the portions of such buildings existing at the time of
passage of this title.
   C.   Minimum Standards: Required off street loading spaces shall be in
conformance with the following:
      1.   Department stores, retail or wholesale stores, eating and drinking
establishments, warehouses, repair, general service, manufacturing or
industrial establishments:
 
Square Feet Of Aggregate Gross Floor Area Required Number Of Spaces
10,000 to 19,999                          1
20,000 to 39,999                          2
40,000 to 60,999                          3
Each additional 20,000                    1 additional
 
      2.   Hotels, office buildings, hospitals or similar institutions,
auditoriums or similar places of public assembly:
 
Square Feet Of Aggregate Gross Floor Area Required Number Of Spaces
3,000 to 19,999                           1
20,000 to 39,999                          2
40,000 to 60,999                          3
Each additional 20,000                    1 additional
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982)
11-6-8: STREET AND ROADWAY ACCESS STANDARDS 1 :
   A.   Access to businesses, service stations, roadside stands, public parking
lots and all other businesses requiring motor vehicle access shall meet the
requirements as hereinafter provided or as prescribed by the approach standards
for Montana highways, whichever requirements are greater.
   B.   Access shall be controlled as follows:
      1.   Access shall be by not more than two (2) roadways for each one
hundred feet (100'), or fraction thereof, frontage on any street.
      2.   No two (2) roadways shall be closer to each other than twelve feet
(12') on the same parcel, and no roadway shall be closer to a side property
line than two feet (2').
      3.   On a corner lot, no roadway shall be closer than twenty feet (20')
to the point of intersection of two (2) property lines at any corner as
measured along the property line, and no roadway shall extend across such
extended property line. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-08, 6-5-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. Please see the City of Whitefish Engineering Standards.
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-7-1: Enforcement
11-7-2: Compliance Required
11-7-3: Zoning Administrator
11-7-4: Zoning Commission (Rep. by Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014)
11-7-5: [Reserved]
11-7-6: Appeals
11-7-7: Variances
11-7-8: Conditional Use Permits
11-7-9: Zoning Compliance Permit
11-7-10: Water Quality Protection Permitting And Review
11-7-11: Nonconforming Uses
11-7-12: Amendments
11-7-13: Violations And Penalties
11-7-1: ENFORCEMENT:
These regulations shall be enforced by the zoning administrator duly appointed
by the city council, or by his assistant or designee, who shall have the
authority to request entry to any building, structure, or premises, or any part
thereof, at any and all reasonable times, for the purpose of performing his
official duties. Any reference herein to the zoning administrator shall include
his assistant or designee. (Ord. 01-04, 2-20-2001)
11-7-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No building permit shall be issued for any proposed use, construction or
action, which is not in compliance with the ordinances of the city. (Ord. 01-
04, 2-20-2001)
11-7-3: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the position of a
zoning administrator who will be a duly appointed person charged with the
administration, interpretation and enforcement of these zoning regulations.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The zoning administrator, his assistant or designee
will:
      1.   Enforce any and all of the provisions of these regulations.
      2.   Keep complete, accurate and secure records.
      3.   Accept applications and appeals and ensure their appropriateness and
completeness.
      4.   Accept and remit fees as established in the adopted administrative
procedures.
      5.   Update these regulations and the official zoning map as directed by
the city council.
      6.   Provide for the accuracy and security of the official zoning map.
      7.   Undertake any other administrative function appropriate to the
office of the zoning administrator.
      8.   Report to the city council any recommendations for changes and
improvements in these regulations and the procedures therein.
      9.   Issue any permit granted by the city council or ordered by the
community development board, and make periodic inspections to verify that all
conditions of a granted permit are complied with by the applicant or his agent.
      10.   Receive and investigate allegations of noncompliance or violation
of these regulations, report findings to the city council, and file a complaint
where such allegations are based in apparent fact.
      11.   Refer any matters under appeal to the community development board
for their action.
      12.   Make recommendations to the city council in connection with any
conditional use permit or to the community development board in connection with
any application for variance or appeal, such conditions as he may deem
necessary in order to fully carry out the provisions and intent of these
regulations.
      13.   Determine the location of any district boundary shown on the zoning
map adopted as part of these regulations when the location is in doubt as
provided for in section
11-2-2 of this title.
      14.   Refer to the community development board for placement of all uses
not categorically permitted but deemed to be synonymous by the zoning
administrator. The community development board will reserve the right to
declare a new use and thus require a zoning ordinance amendment for placement
of the new use.
   C.   Restrictions: The zoning administrator must not:
      1.   Make any changes in the uses categorically permitted in any zoning
classification or zoning district, or make any changes in the terms of these
zoning regulations, or make any changes in the terms, classifications or their
boundaries on the official zoning map without the prior specific direction of
the city council requesting that he/she do so.
      2.   Issue any conditional use permit without the specific direction to
do so from the city council.
      3.   Issue any variance without specific direction to do so from the
community development board.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
11-7-4: ZONING COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 14-08, 9-15-2014)
11-7-5: [RESERVED]:
11-7-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority To Appeal: Any person, the city, or federal, state, county,
school district or city government agency, may file an appeal when aggrieved by
a decision or interpretation made by the zoning administrator; provided, that
the appeal is based on an allegation that:
      1.   The zoning administrator made an error in interpretation of these
regulations; and that
      2.   The erroneous interpretation specifically aggrieves the appellant.
   B.   Application And Procedure:
      1.   Appeals must be filed in the manner provided, and, after payment of
fees as prescribed by the city council, within thirty (30) days (but not more
than 10 days after start of construction) from the time the officer charged
with enforcement of these regulations has made a written interpretation or
determination of these regulations.
      2.   No part of any required fee will be returnable after an appeal is
filed and the fee paid, except upon petition by the appellant and approval by
the zoning administrator. No fee paid for an action which is declared closed or
ruled invalid will be refunded.
      3.   The zoning administrator will transmit any appeal with all
supporting materials to the community development board at least five (5)
calendar days prior to the date of their next regularly scheduled meeting.
      4.   The zoning administrator must fix a reasonable time for the hearing
and give notice thereof to the parties of interest and the public by publishing
notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the community, at least fifteen
(15) calendar days prior to the hearing.
      5.   Where an appeal concerns a particular piece of property, all
property owners within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the subject property
must be notified by mail at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the
hearing. (When the subject property abuts a public right of way, the 150 foot
measurement is in addition to this right of way along the abutting side.)
      6.   An appeal under the terms of these regulations stays all proceedings
in the matter appealed from unless the zoning administrator certifies to the
community development board that, by reason of the facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings will not be stayed, except by a restraining order granted by
the board hearing the appeal or by a court of record on application and notice
to the zoning administrator from whom the appeal was taken and on due cause
shown.
      7.   Decisions of the community development board must be by motion. The
basis for the decision on each appeal, and a detailed summary of the facts and
basis supporting the determination, must be recorded in the decision and must
constitute a part of the record thereof.
      8.   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board is necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the zoning
administrator; or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter.
      9.   A hearing may be continued at the request of the applicant or upon
motion of the board; provided however, that the granting of a continuance is a
matter of grace, resting solely in the discretion of the board, and a refusal
to continue is not a denial of a right, conditional or otherwise.
      10.   Decision on continuance of a hearing can be reached by a simple
majority, but must be made prior to voting on the application itself.
      11.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the board with regard to an
appeal may file an appeal with a court of record within thirty (30) days of the
filing of the decision.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
11-7-7: VARIANCES:
   A.   Hardships: Certain circumstances exist or arise wherein an unnecessary
hardship is created through strict adherence to the provisions of these
regulations. There is hereinafter provided provisions for the granting of a
variance from the provisions of these regulations, so that the public welfare
is secured, and substantial justice can be done to those so affected. Any
zoning deviations utilized as incentives received with an approved Housing
Mitigation Plan pursuant to section
11-1A-5 of this title are not subject to the provisions of this subsection and
are not required to obtain a variance.
   B.   Application For Variance:
      1.   Application for a variance may be filed by any property owner or
their designated agent for the affected property.
      2.   The application must be made on a form provided by the planning
office. Multiple requests for variance for the same project may be filed on a
single application and charged a single fee.
      3.   The completed application and fee as set by the city council must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator.
      4.   No part of any required fee will be refundable after an application
is filed and the fee paid, except under petition by the applicant and approval
by the Zoning Administrator for items requested to be pulled from the agenda
prior to a public hearing. On those items, a partial refund may be considered.
No fee paid for an action which is denied, declared closed, or ruled invalid
shall be refunded.
   C.   Procedure For Consideration:
      1.   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the completed application to
the community development board at least five (5) calendar days prior to the
date of their next regularly scheduled meeting, together with all supportive
materials thereto attached, and will set a hearing date, publish notice as
provided for in these regulations and notify all parties of interest. Notice of
the hearing will be placed in a newspaper of general circulation in the
community at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the date of the hearing.
      2.   Written notice shall be sent by regular mail to all property owners
within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the subject property at least fifteen
(15) calendar days prior to the hearing. Where the subject property abuts a
public right-of-way, the one hundred fifty foot (150') measurement shall be in
addition to this right-of-way along the abutting side.
      3.   Findings are required to be made by the Board for approval of a
variance. No variance will be granted unless the Board finds all the following
conditions are met or found to be not pertinent to the particular case:
         a.   Strict compliance with the terms of these regulations will:
            (1)   Limit the reasonable use of the property; and
            (2)   Deprive the applicant of rights enjoyed by other properties
similarly situated in the district.
         b.   The hardship is the result of lot size, shape, topography or
other circumstances over which the applicant has no control.
         c.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant’s property.
         d.   The hardship was not created by the applicant.
         e.   The hardship is not economic (when a reasonable or viable
alternative exists).
         f.   Granting the variance will not adversely affect the neighboring
properties or the public.
         g.   The variance requested is the minimum variance which will
alleviate the hardship.
         h.   Granting the variance will not confer a special privilege that is
denied other similar properties in the district.
      4.   Every decision of the Board will be made by motion and be based upon
findings of fact, and every finding of fact supported in the record of its
proceedings. The enumerated conditions required to grant a variance under these
regulations will be construed as limitation on the power of the Board to act. A
mere finding or recitation of the enumerate conditions unaccompanied by
findings of specific fact will not be deemed in compliance with these
regulations.
      5.   In approving a variance, the Board may impose such conditions as are
in its judgment necessary to promote the general provisions of these
regulations.
      6.   It takes the affirmative vote of four (4) members of the Board to
grant a variance.
      7.   A hearing may be continued at the request of the applicant or upon
motion of the Board; provided however, that the granting of a continuance is a
matter of grace, resting solely in the discretion of the Board, and a refusal
to continue is not a denial of a right, conditional or otherwise.
      8.   Decision on continuance of a hearing can be reached by a simple
majority; but must be made prior to voting on the application itself.
      9.   A variance is valid indefinitely, provided it is exercised within
one year of the date of issuance, or as otherwise provided for by the Board.
      10.   The Board must act upon any application for a variance within sixty
(60) days of the date of filing with the Zoning Administrator.
      11.   A request may be reheard only when there has been a manifest error
affecting the Board’s decision, or it appears that a substantial change in
facts, evidence or conditions has occurred. The determination will be made by
the Zoning Administrator within sixty (60) days of final action by the Board.
      12.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Board may file an appeal
with a court of record within thirty (30) days of the filing of the decision by
the Board.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; Ord. 21-11, 8-16-2021; Ord.
23-27, 11-20-2023)
11-7-8: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Conditional Use Permit Required: No structure, building or land will be
used, constructed, altered or expanded where a conditional use permit is
specifically required by the terms of these regulations until a conditional use
permit for the use has been authorized by the city council and issued by the
Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Continuation Of Conditional Use Permit: Any use which was lawfully
established prior to the adoption, extension or application of these
regulations and the use is now permitted by these regulations subject to a
conditional use permit, may continue in the same manner and to the same extent
as conducted prior to the adoption or extension of these regulations without
securing a conditional use permit; provided that before the structure or
building in which the use is conducted may be altered, added to, enlarged,
expanded or moved from one location to another on the lot, or before the use
may be expanded within the building or extended over the lot on which the use
is located, a conditional use permit must be secured from the Zoning
Administrator.
   C.   Alter Or Enlarge Structures: Structures or buildings devoted to any use
which is permitted under the terms of these regulations, subject to the
securing of a conditional use permit, may be altered, added to, enlarged,
expanded or moved from one location to another on the lot only after securing a
new conditional use permit.
   D.   Application:
      1.   Application for a conditional use permit may be made by the owner of
the affected property, or his/her designated agent, on a form obtainable from
the planning office.
      2.   The completed application and fee as set by the city council must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee. The fee is not
refundable.
      3.   All required conditional use permit applications and preliminary
plat applications applicable to a single development project shall be submitted
for review simultaneously.
   E.   Procedure For Consideration:
      1.   After acceptance by the Zoning Administrator or his/her designee,
the completed application will be transmitted to the staff of the community
development board for their review and evaluation.
      2.   The planning staff will set a public hearing date and publish a
public notice which jointly advertises the public hearing before the community
development board and the public hearing before the city council, at least once
in a newspaper of general circulation in the community, at least fifteen (15)
calendar days prior to the meeting of the community development board at which
the application is to be considered.
      3.   The planning staff must also mail written notice to all adjacent
property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the subject property not
less than fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the time of formal review by the
community development board. Where the subject property abuts a public right-
of-way, the three hundred feet (300') measurement must be in addition to the
right-of-way along the abutting side.
      4.   A notice must be posted by the planning department in a conspicuous
place on the site at least fifteen (15) working days prior to the public
hearing and shall remain on the subject parcel until all the public hearings
are complete. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure the
sign is maintained in place and visible during the entire public review
process.
      5.   Written comment from adjacent property owners must be specific when
maintaining that the granting of the conditional use permit would adversely or
injuriously affect their personal and legal interests.
      6.   The community development board will consider the application at its
next regular meeting following the public notice process. The board will make a
recommendation to the city council to approve, conditionally approve or deny
the application.
      7.   Upon receipt of the recommendation of the community development
board, the city council will hold a public hearing and render a determination
whether to approve, conditionally approve or deny the application for a
conditional use permit based on public input, the staff report and findings of
the community development board.
      8.   A decision must be rendered by the city council within ninety (90)
days after acceptance of the completed application by the Zoning Administrator
and the payment of the appropriate fee unless the time limit has been extended
by an agreement between the Zoning Administrator or the city council and the
applicant.
   F.   Approval Of Application, Granting Of Conditional Use Permit: Upon
rendering a decision to grant a conditional use permit, with or without
stipulations or conditions that must be adhered to by the applicant, the city
council will notify the Zoning Administrator of their decision, and he shall
issue a conditional use permit, with stipulations if any referred to and
itemized in brief on the face of the permit. The application and all subsequent
information, correspondence, evaluations, recommendations and decisions will
then be placed on permanent file in the Office of the Zoning Administrator.
   G.   Revocation: In the event of a violation of any of the provisions of
these regulations or its amendments, or in the event of a failure to comply
with any prescribed condition of approval or stipulations placed upon approval,
the Zoning Administrator willl suspend any conditional use permit immediately,
notify the city council and set a date for hearing to determine if the
suspensions shall be lifted or if the conditional use permit shall be revoked.
The city council shall be the hearing body. In the case of a revocation of a
conditional use permit, the determination of the city council is final, unless
recourse is sought in a court of record.
   H.   Termination And Transferability: Once granted, a conditional use permit
with its terms and conditions, will:
      1.   Run with the lot, building, structure or use and shall not be
affected by changes in ownership.
      2.   Terminate eighteen (18) months from date of authorization if
commencement of the authorized activity has not begun:
         a.   Unless otherwise spelled out in the conditions of approval; or
         b.   Unless the applicant can demonstrate and maintain a continuous
good faith effort (preparing financing, securing State or Federal permits,
undertaking engineering and design, etc.) in commencing the activity.
   I.   Denial Of Application:
      1.   In the event an application is denied by the city council, no
resubmittal of an application for a conditional use permit may be made for one
year from the date of denial, unless sufficient new evidence or conditions are
offered to the Zoning Administrator to demonstrate to him/her that
circumstances have altered and that further consideration of the application is
warranted. In such an event, the resubmitted application must follow the same
procedures as the original, and will be treated as a new application.
      2.   Denial of an application for a conditional use permit may be
appealed to a court of record within thirty (30) days from the date of denial.
   J.   Criteria Required For Consideration Of A Conditional Use Permit (CUP):
A CUP may be granted only if the proposal substantially conforms to all of the
following criteria standards:
      1.   Growth policy compliance. The proposal conforms to applicable goals
and policies of the Whitefish growth policy.
      2.   Compliance with regulations. The proposal is consistent with the
purpose, intent, and applicable provisions of these regulations.
      3.   Site suitability. The site must be suitable for the proposed use or
development, including:
         a.   Adequate usable land area,
         b.   Access that meets the standards set forth in these regulations,
including emergency access,
         c.   Absence of environmental constraints that would render the site
inappropriate for the proposed use or development, including, but not
necessarily limited to, floodplains, slope, wetlands, riparian buffers/
setbacks, or geological hazards.
      4.   Quality and functionality of design. The site plan for the proposed
use or development has effectively dealt with the following design issues as
applicable:
         a.   Parking locations and layout,
         b.   Traffic circulation,
         c.   Open space,
         d.   Fencing/screening,
         e.   Landscaping,
         f.   Signage,
         g.   Undergrounding of new utilities, and
         h.   Undergrounding existing overhead utilities based on scope and
scale of project.
      5.   Availability and adequacy of public services and facilities. The
following services and facilities are available and adequate to serve the use
or development as proposed and as applicable:
         a.   Sewer,
         b.   Water,
         c.   Storm water,
         d.   Fire protection,
         e.   Police protection,
         f.   Streets (public or private),
         g.   Parks (residential only),
         h.   Sidewalks, and
         i.   Bike/pedestrian ways (including connectivity to existing and
proposed developments and destinations off site).
      6.   Neighborhood/community impact. The proposed use or development will
not have detrimental effects on adjacent properties, nearby neighborhoods, and
the community in general. Adverse impacts may include, but are not necessarily
limited to:
         a.   Excessive traffic generation and/or infiltration of
neighborhoods,
         b.   Noise or vibration,
         c.   Dust, smoke, glare or heat,
         d.   Smoke, fumes, gas or odors, and
         e.   Hours of operation.
      7.   Neighborhood/community compatibility. The use or development is
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood and community in general in terms
of:
         a.   Structural bulk and massing,
         b.   Scale,
         c.   Context of existing neighborhood,
         d.   Density, and
         e.   Community character.
   K.   Burden On Applicant: The burden of proof for satisfying the
aforementioned criteria considered for approval rests with the applicant and
not the city council. The granting of a conditional use permit is a matter of
grace, resting in the discretion of the City Council and a refusal is not the
denial of a right, conditional or otherwise.
   L.   City Council Decision Based On Findings: Every decision of the city
council pertaining to the granting, denial or amendment of a request for a
conditional use permit must be based upon findings of fact, and every finding
of fact must be supported in the records of its proceedings. The enumerated
conditions as provided for in subsection J of this section, required to exist
in any matter upon which the city council is required to pass under these
regulations will be construed as a limitation on the power of the city council
to act in the matter of the issuance of conditional use permits. A mere finding
or recitation of the enumerated conditions unaccompanied by findings of
specific fact will not be deemed in compliance with these regulations.
   M.   Administrative Conditional Use Permit Required: An administrative
conditional use permit must be obtained by the property owner when specifically
required by this title or for minor amendments to an already approved
conditional use permit. In no case, may a project requiring a standard
conditional use permit be allowed to utilize the administrative conditional use
permit process.
      1.   Application:
         a.   Application for an administrative conditional use permit must be
made on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator.
         b.   A completed application and fee as set by the city council must
be submitted to the Zoning Administrator or designee. The fee is nonrefundable.
      2.   Procedures For Consideration:
         a.   Once the application is deemed complete, the planning staff must:
            (1)   Notify in writing each property owner on a list certified by
Flathead County of owners of record within three hundred feet (300') of the
subject parcel excluding any right-of-way by regular mail at least fifteen (15)
working days prior to the issuance of the permit. The notice must include a
site plan and City staff contact information. The notice shall also include
instructions for submitting public comments and a deadline for submitting such
comments.
            (2)   Publish a public notice once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the community at least fifteen (15) working days prior to the
issuance of the permit.
         b.   Written comments from adjacent property owners expressing
concerns or objections, if any, must be specific stating the granting of the
conditional use permit would adversely or injuriously affect their personal
and/or legal interest.
         c.   If there are concerns that cannot be mitigated through standard
conditions of approval, a public hearing before the community development board
and city council will be scheduled according to the process outlined in
subsection E of this section.
         d.   If it appears the administrative conditional use permit is being
used to avoid the standard conditional use permit process through phasing or
other means, the Zoning Administrator may schedule the matter before the
community development board and city council according to the process outlined
in subsection E of this section.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 96-10, 6-17-1996; Ord. 07-05, 3-5-2007; Ord.
19-11, 6-3-2019; Ord. 19-25, 12-16-2019; Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
11-7-9: ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the zoning compliance permit is to ensure
proposed changes in use comply with the standards of this title.
   B.   Zoning Compliance Permit Required: A zoning compliance permit is
required prior to a change in use when a building permit is not required. A use
is considered changed when it is converted from one type of use to another of a
different type that has different development standards or parking
requirements. For example, a retail space changing to a restaurant or office
space, a commercial space changing to residential use, or the changing of a
residential use to a residential short-term rental. Should a change in use be
undertaken without first obtaining a zoning compliance permit, and said
activity is subsequently found to be not in compliance with applicable codes
and regulations, the new use must be abandoned, or, if a legal use, an after
the fact zoning compliance permit must be obtained as set forth in subsection H
of this section and a review fee will be charged.
   C.   Preapplication:
      1.   Prior to submitting an application for zoning compliance, an
applicant must schedule a meeting with a city planner to review the
application.
      2.   The purpose of the preapplication meeting is to provide the
applicant with the best available information regarding the development
proposal and application processing requirement, review the uses permitted in
the zoning district, and to assure the availability of complete and accurate
information necessary for review prior to the applicant's expenditure of
application fee and the scheduling of the application review process.
   D.   Application:
      1.   Change In Use; Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Form Provided: Application for zoning compliance shall be made on
a form provided by the city of Whitefish.
         b.   Site Plan: The application shall include a site plan drawn to a
suitable engineering scale (1 inch = 10 feet, 1 inch = 20 feet, etc.). The site
plan shall include, as a minimum, the following:
            (1)   Boundaries of the subject property with all bearings and
dimensions.
            (2)   All existing and proposed improvements, including buildings,
storage areas, driveways, decks, patios, fuel tanks, utilities, easements, and
landscaping.
            (3)   Required off street parking with number of spaces provided,
surface treatment, loading zones and parking lot landscaping delineated.
            (4)   For commercial uses, a floor plan layout that shows the gross
floor area.
   E.   Response: Once an application for zoning compliance permit is deemed
complete, the zoning administrator will have twenty (20) business days to
respond to the applicant.
   F.   Approval: Approval of a zoning compliance permit will consist of a
stamped approved copy of the site plan with all conditions noted thereon or in
a separate letter.
   G.   Denial: Denial of a zoning compliance permit will consist of a stamped
copy of the site plan and letter explaining the reasons for such denial.
   H.   After The Fact Zoning Compliance Permit: Should any change in use be
undertaken without first obtaining a zoning compliance permit, and such
activity is subsequently determined by the zoning administrator to be in
violation of applicable codes and regulations, the use must be abandoned
immediately. If the use is a legal use, upon written notice of the zoning
administrator the property owner must obtain an after the fact zoning
compliance permit. The after the fact zoning compliance permit must be applied
for on a form provided by the city, and must be accompanied by a site plan with
all information required in subsection E2 of this section. A fee for the after
the fact zoning compliance permit will be set by resolution of the Whitefish
city council. The after the fact zoning compliance permit must be approved,
approved with conditions, or denied by the zoning administrator in accordance
with subsections E, F and G of this section.
   I.   Time Limits:
      1.   A zoning compliance permit is valid for twelve (12) months and
expires if the development is not established, ongoing and in operation.
      2.   The zoning administrator may grant one 1-year extension upon written
application to the zoning administrator provided the applicant can show a
continued good faith effort.
      3.   Failure to act within the time limits established by this section
shall render null and void the zoning compliance permit.
   J.   Appeal: Any action of the zoning administrator pursuant to this section
may be appealed to the board as set forth in section
11-7-6 of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-04, 4-18-2011; amd. Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015; Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
11-7-10: WATER QUALITY PROTECTION PERMITTING AND REVIEW:
   A.   Water Quality Identification Form And Report:
      1.   Form Requirements: Prior to the city’s consideration of development
within two hundred feet (200') of a water quality protection area and not found
to be exempt under subsection 11-3-29B1 of this title, the applicant must
submit to the director a complete water quality protection identification form,
provided by the city, including a site plan drawn to a suitable engineering
scale (1 inch = 10 feet, 1 inch = 20 feet, etc.). The site plan, which is not
intended to require a formal land survey, must at a minimum include the
following:
         a.   Boundaries of the subject property.
         b.   All existing and proposed improvements, including buildings,
parking and storage areas, driveways, decks, patios, wells, septic systems,
drain fields, fuel tanks, utilities, easements, and areas to be cleared or
graded.
         c.   Name and description of the adjacent street (R/W width, pavement
width, type of surface, public or private, sidewalk, curb and gutter, etc.).
         d.   Accurate location of critical stormwater conveyances regulated
under this section on the property, or lakes, rivers, streams, or wetlands on
the property or within two hundred feet (200') of the development site.
         e.   Identification of those parts of the development site with slopes
greater than ten percent (10%), if located within two hundred feet (200') of a
lake, river, stream or wetlands.
      The director may waive requirements for the site plan if the director
determines the completed water quality protection identification form is
sufficient to ensure compliance with this section.
      2.   Form Review: The director will review the water quality protection
identification form and site plan and conduct a site inspection and review
other information available pertaining to the site and the proposal. The
director will then make a determination as to whether any water quality
protection areas may be affected by the proposal. If the director finds that no
water quality protection areas are present on or adjacent to the development
site or that the proposal will not impact a water quality protection area in a
manner contrary to section 11-3-29 of this title, the director will rule that
the water quality protection review is complete and will note on the
identification form that no further review is required.
      If the director finds that a water quality protection area may be
affected by the proposal, the director will notify the applicant of what
additional information is necessary to assess compliance with this section,
indicating each of the water quality protection types that should be addressed.
      A determination regarding the absence of one or more water quality
protection areas by the director is not an expert certification. The presence
of water quality protection areas is subject to possible reconsideration and
reopening if new information is received. Development of materials to
demonstrate compliance with this section and their review by the city, which
may include referral to independent qualified professionals, at the applicant’s
expense.
      3.   Required Geographic Area: The director may limit the required
geographic area of a water quality protection report or geotechnical letter as
appropriate if:
         a.   The applicant, with assistance from the city, cannot obtain
permission to access properties adjacent to the development site; or
         b.   The proposed activity will affect only a limited part of the
subject site.
      4.   Water Quality Protection Review With Building Permit Submittal: A
project submitting for a building permit does not need to submit a separate
water quality protection identification form if all the above described
information is found on the site plan for the building permit. If the director
identifies a water quality protection area not addressed in the building
permit, then the applicant must complete a separate water quality protection
identification form and submit any additional information as may be needed.
   B.   Water Quality Protection Compliance Permit:
      1.   An applicant for a water quality protection compliance permit must
submit to the director a complete water quality protection identification form
and site plan, as described in subsection A of this section.
      2.   Once an application for a water quality protection compliance permit
is deemed complete, the director has thirty (30) days to respond to the
applicant consistent with procedures identified in subsection A of this
section. Decisions by the director may be appealed as set forth in section 11-
7-6 of this chapter.
      3.   Water quality protection compliance permits are valid for eighteen
(18) months. One 12-month extension may be granted from the planning
department, provided the site plan and conditions have not changed.
   C.   Preliminary Water Quality Protection Determination: Prior to a detailed
submittal for compliance with these regulations and the requirements of
subsection A or B of this section, a property owner or potential purchaser of
land may opt to request a preliminary determination from the city which will
include a completed form, provided by the city, along with an application fee
and the following information:
      1.   Vicinity map.
      2.   Site plan, drawn to a suitable engineering scale (such as 1 inch =
20 feet), showing:
         a.   Boundaries of the subject property.
         b.   A building improvement area (more than an exact building
footprint, but less than the entire lot).
         c.   Name of adjacent rights of way.
         d.   Location of critical stormwater conveyances, rivers, streams,
wetlands, or lakes on property or within two hundred feet (200').
         e.   Topography of the site at two foot (2') contour intervals, with
slopes greater than ten percent (10%), if located within two hundred feet
(200') of a lake, river, stream or wetland.
   The director will review the preliminary water quality protection
determination application, will conduct a site inspection and review other
information available pertaining to the site to preliminarily determine if the
proposal may have an effect on water quality protection areas. A written
preliminary determination will be issued by the city within thirty (30) days of
a completed application. This written determination does not take the place of
the requirements in subsection A or B of this section.
   D.   Determination:
      1.   Once a water quality protection report or geotechnical letter is
deemed complete, the director shall determine whether the proposed activity
complies with this section within thirty (30) days.
      2.   If the director determines a proposed activity complies with this
section, the director will prepare a written notice of determination and
identify any required conditions of approval, which must be attached to the
underlying permit or approval. This determination will be final concurrent with
the final decision to approve, condition, or deny the development proposal or
other activity involved.
      3.   If the director determines a proposed activity does not adequately
mitigate its impacts on water quality protection areas or otherwise comply with
this section, the director must prepare written notice of the determination
that includes findings of noncompliance. No proposed activity or permit will be
approved or issued if it is determined that the proposed activity does not
comply with this section.
      Following notice of noncompliance, the applicant may: a) request
mediation of the points of disagreement, and/or b) request consideration of a
revised water quality protection report or geotechnical letter. If the
applicant requests mediation, then the applicant and the director will within
twenty (20) days jointly select an acceptable mediator from a list approved by
the director, and will meet at least once with the mediator within thirty (30)
days after the mediator has been chosen.
      The mediator must be a qualified professional for the relevant water
quality protection area(s) unless the parties agree otherwise. The parties must
share the cost of mediation equally. If the parties do not come to agreement
through mediation, the director, taking into account the mediator’s
recommendation, will make the determination. If the applicant requests
consideration of a revised water quality protection report or geotechnical
letter and the revision is found to be substantial and relevant, the director
may reopen the review and make a new determination based on the revised report.
      4.   Any decision to approve, condition, or deny a development proposal
or other activity based on the requirements of this section may be appealed
according to, and as part of, the appeal procedure for the permit or approval
involved.
   E.   Report Contents: If the applicant proposes impacts to streams, lakes,
wetlands, or their standard buffers or setbacks, including reductions in buffer
widths in exchange for restoration, the applicant must submit a water quality
protection report as described in this subsection, which must include the
following information:
      1.   The dates, names, and qualifications of the persons preparing the
report, documentation of any fieldwork performed on the site, and a description
of the methodologies used, including references and all assumptions made or
relied upon.
      2.   For all wetlands on the subject property and all off site wetlands
that could be impacted by the proposed action (using best available information
if adjacent property access is denied) provide the following: hydrogeomorphic
and Cowardin classification; characterization of vegetation, soils, and
hydrology indicators; standard wetland buffer width; and wetland acreage
estimates.
      3.   Description of the proposed activity and assessment of cumulative
impacts to water quality protection areas and buffers from development of the
site, including a description of the proposed stormwater management plan for
the development and discussion of the potential impacts to wetlands associated
with anticipated alterations to water quality and hydroperiod (pattern of
fluctuations in water levels).
      4.   An analysis of site development alternatives including a no
development alternative.
      5.   A description of reasonable efforts made to avoid, minimize, or
compensate for impacts in the following sequential order of preference:
         a.   Avoid the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or
parts of an action;
         b.   Minimize impacts by limiting the degree or magnitude of the
action and its implementation, by using appropriate technology, or by taking
affirmative steps, such as project redesign, relocation, or timing, to avoid or
reduce impacts;
         c.   Rectify the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the
affected environment to the historical conditions or the conditions existing at
the time of the initiation of the project;
         d.   Minimize or eliminate a hazard by restoring or stabilizing the
hazard area through engineered or other methods;
         e.   Reduce or eliminate the impact or hazard over time by
preservation and maintenance operations during the life of the action;
         f.   Compensate for the impact by replacing, enhancing, or providing
substitute resources or environments, on site, where feasible.
      6.   When mitigation to compensate for impacts is required, the following
information shall be included:
         a.   Mitigation goals and objectives, in relation to the existing
functions of the water quality protection or buffer and functions that will be
lost because of the proposed development. For wetlands, this analysis shall use
the Montana wetland assessment method, as developed and updated by the Montana
department of transportation.
         b.   A review of the best available science supporting the proposed
mitigation and a description of the report author’s experience to date in
restoring or creating the type of area or buffer proposed.
         c.   Measurable specific criteria for evaluating whether or not the
goals and objectives of the mitigation project have been successfully attained
and whether or not the requirements of this section have been met.
         d.   An analysis of the likelihood of success of the compensation
project.
         e.   Details of the mitigation proposed, such as:
            (1)   The proposed construction method, sequence, timing, and
duration;
            (2)   Grading and excavation details;
            (3)   Erosion and sediment control features;
            (4)   A planting plan specifying plant species, quantities,
locations, size, spacing, and density; and
            (5)   Measures to protect and maintain plants until established.
         These written specifications must be accompanied by detailed site
diagrams, scaled cross sectional drawings, topographic maps showing slope
percentage and final grade elevations, and/or any other drawings appropriate to
show construction techniques or anticipated final outcome.
         If buffers are not currently vegetated with native plants, any
proposed restoration must attempt to create this condition unless site specific
circumstances provide a compelling reason to do otherwise.
         It is preferred that mitigation be completed prior to activities that
will disturb streams, wetlands, or their buffers. If that is infeasible,
mitigation must be completed immediately following disturbance and prior to use
or occupancy of the action or development. Construction of mitigation projects
must be timed to reduce impacts to existing fisheries, wildlife, and flora.
         f.   A program for monitoring construction of the mitigation project
and for assessing the completed project against its goals and objectives. A
protocol must be included outlining the schedule for site monitoring (for
example, monitoring shall occur in years 1, 3, 5, 7 and 10 after site
construction), and how monitoring data will be evaluated to determine if
performance standards are being met. A monitoring report must be submitted to
document milestones, successes, problems, and contingency actions of the
compensation project. The mitigation project must be monitored for a period
necessary to establish that performance standards have been met, but not for a
period less than five (5) years or, in the case of mitigation for wetland
alterations, ten (10) years. If performance standards are being met after these
minimum periods, requirements for additional monitoring may be waived, if the
director determines they are unnecessary.
         g.   Identification of potential courses of action, and any corrective
measures to be taken, if monitoring or evaluation indicates project performance
standards are not being met.
         h.   Financial guarantees to ensure that the mitigation plan is fully
implemented and meeting performance standards. Guarantees must be in the form
of a surety bond, performance bond, assignment of savings account, or an
irrevocable letter of credit guaranteed by an acceptable financial institution
with terms and conditions acceptable to the city. The guarantee must be in the
amount of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of the
uncompleted actions or the estimated cost of restoring the functions and values
of the water quality protection areas that are at risk, whichever is greater,
and must be separate from any other financial guarantees the city may hold for
infrastructure purposes. Guarantees must be released based on milestones
included in the water quality protection report and the city’s determination,
in writing, that the standards bonded for have been met, to ensure that the
required mitigation is fully implemented and demonstrated to function.
Depletion, failure, or collection of bond funds do not discharge the obligation
of an applicant or violator to complete required mitigation, maintenance,
monitoring, or restoration.
   F.   Wetland Mitigation Preferences: Mitigation to achieve compensation for
lost wetland functions (e.g., removing fill, plugging ditches, breaking drain
tiles, breaching dikes, etc.) must be approached in the following order of
preference:
      1.   Reestablishment of natural or historic functions to a former
wetland, through restoration of physical, chemical or biological processes.
      2.   Rehabilitation of natural or historic functions of a degraded
wetland through restoration of physical, chemical or biological processes.
      3.   Creation of wetlands on disturbed upland sites, where the
postproject hydrologic regime can demonstrably support the proposed wetland
plant community.
      4.   Preservation or protection of a wetland that would not be adequately
accomplished through existing regulations.
      5.   Enhancement of vegetation or other characteristics of a wetland site
to improve specific functions, such as filtration of pollutants or wildlife
habitat.
   G.   Wetland Mitigation Ratios: When an applicant proposes to alter a
wetland, the affected wetland acreage must be replaced guided by the ratios
established in the table below. The ratios apply to on-site mitigation, timed
prior to or concurrent with alteration, has a high probability of success, and
is in kind (i.e., losses of wetland acreage shall be replaced by creation or
restoration of new acreage; degradation of wetland functions must be replaced
by restoration or enhancement of new wetland functions, etc.). Ratios assume
that the hydrogeomorphic (HGM) class/subclass of the wetland proposed as
compensation are the same as the HGM class/subclass of the wetland impacted.
Where these conditions do not hold, ratios must be adjusted accordingly, as
determined by the director, in consultation with the Montana department of
environmental quality. Ratios for remedial actions resulting from unauthorized
alterations must be greater than set forth in the table, as determined by the
director.
 
Type Of Wetland          Creation Or             Rehabilitation Enhancement Or
                         Reestablishment                        Preservation
Fen                      Not considered possible 6:1            10:1
Other high value         3:1                     6:1            20:1
wetlands1
Other, nonexempt wetland 2:1                     4:1            15:1
Exempt wetland           1.5:1                   3:1            10:1
 
   Note:
       1.   Includes wetlands with a forest community of Engelmann spruce and
skunk cabbage; wetlands with plants identified as species of concern by the
Montana natural heritage program or successor agency; and wetlands rated as
category I or category II using the Montana wetland assessment method, as
developed and updated by the Montana department of transportation.
(Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012)
11-7-11: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Change Of Regulations: If, at the time of adoption of these regulations
or of any amendments thereto, or of any amendment thereof, resulting from the
annexation of territory to the incorporated area of the city, any lot,
structure or building was being used in an otherwise lawful manner that does
not conform to the use provisions of these regulations, or if any structure or
building was located or erected in an otherwise lawful manner that does not
conform to the yard, lot coverage, height limit or parking and loading
provisions of these regulations, the use of the location or erection shall be
deemed to be a nonconforming use and may continue in the manner and to the
extent that it existed or was being used at the time of adoption of these
regulations. The nonconforming status will run with the lot, building,
structure or use and shall not be affected by changes in ownership. (Ord. 14-
21, 1-5-2015)
   B.   Continue Nonconforming Use: Any nonconforming use may be continued
except that if any such nonconforming use is abandoned or desisted, or
voluntarily or by legal action caused to be discontinued for a period of one
hundred eighty (180) days, then any subsequent use of the building, other
structure or use of the land shall be required to be in conformity with the
provisions of these regulations.
   C.   Nonconforming Use Described: Any building for which a building permit
has been issued prior to the adoption or amendment of these regulations and the
erection of which is in conformity with the plans submitted and approved for
the permit, but does not conform to the provisions of these regulations, shall
be a nonconforming use.
   D.   Changes Permitted:
      1.   Routine maintenance and repairs or those modifications required by
applicable health and safety codes shall be permitted.
      2.   A nonconforming building, structure or use may be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed or structurally altered if the building, structure or
use is changed to completely conform to the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 11-04, 4-18-2011; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012)
      3.   A building or structure conforming with respect to use but
nonconforming with respect to height, setback, or lot coverage may be altered
or extended if the alteration or extension does not further deviate from this
title. Deviations not permitted by this section shall include any additional
development which would not conform to the provisions of these regulations and/
or increase the degree of nonconformity of the building or structure. This
includes changes in the use or character of outdoor spaces such as covering of
decks, porches, or balconies, or enclosing any outdoor living space. A
nonconforming building or structure may not be extended vertically except in
compliance with this title.
      4.   A nonconforming use may be expanded, subject to a conditional use
permit, within the confines of the lot or parcel of land upon which it was
located at the time of the adoption or amendment of these regulations;
provided, however, that all standards for the applicable zoning district are
met, and that the land area and/or size of building or structure being used for
the nonconforming use at the time of adoption or amendment of these regulations
is not increased by more than fifty percent (50%). (Ord. 06-04, 2-21-2006; amd.
Ord. 11-04, 4-18-2011; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012)
      5.   If no structural alterations are made to a nonconforming building or
other structure, a nonconforming use may, upon approval and issuance of a
conditional use permit, be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or
more restricted use classification, provided that the new nonconforming use is
no more deleterious to the neighborhood, considering all factors, than was the
previous nonconforming use.
   E.   Reconstruction Of Damaged Buildings:
      1.   Any nonconforming use or building so damaged or destroyed to the
extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the real value thereof, excluding
foundation, then the nonconforming use of building and the land on which the
use was located or maintained shall, from and after the date of such
destruction, be subject to all the regulations of the use district within which
such land and/or building(s) are located. The percentage of destruction shall
be determined by the zoning administrator or his designee and shall be based on
the estimated cost to repair or reconstruct to the original condition of the
building.
      2.   Where any nonconforming building shall be destroyed to a degree less
than fifty percent (50%), as specified above, the building or structure may be
reconstructed to its original size and use upon the issuance of a building
permit. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 11-04, 4-18-2011; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-
2012)
11-7-12: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Amendments Allowed: The provisions of these regulations may, from time
to time, and for the furtherance of public necessity, convenience and welfare
and in recognition that circumstances and conditions may be altered
substantially as time passes, be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or
replaced.
   B.   Procedures:
      1.   Requests to amend the text of these regulations may be initiated by
any affected party or entity on a form provided by the zoning administrator.
      2.   The completed application and fee, as set by the city council, shall
be submitted to the zoning administrator or his designee.
      3.   The completed application shall be processed as per the adopted
administrative procedures.
      4.   After acceptance by the zoning administrator or his designee, the
completed application shall be transmitted to the staff of the planning board
for their review and evaluation.
      5.   The planning staff shall set a public hearing date and publish a
public notice which jointly advertises the public hearing before the planning
board and the public hearing before the city council at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the community at least fifteen (15)
calendar days prior to the meeting of the planning board at which the
application is to be considered.
      6.   The planning board shall consider the application at its next
regular meeting following the public notice process. The board shall make a
recommendation to the city council to grant, amend or deny the application.
      7.   Should a decision not be rendered by the city council within ninety
(90) days after acceptance of the completed application by the zoning
administrator and the payment of the appropriate fee, the application shall be
deemed approved unless the time limit has been extended by an agreement between
the zoning administrator and the applicant.
      8.   Upon receipt of the recommendation of the planning board, the city
council shall hold a public hearing. Based on the results of this hearing,
other public input, the staff report, and findings of the planning board, the
city council shall render a decision to grant, amend or deny the requested
amendment.
      9.   Should the proposed amendment be adopted, the city council shall
officially notify the zoning administrator of the amendment now in force and he
shall incorporate the amendment into the appropriate article, chapter, section
or paragraph of these regulations.
      10.   In the event that an application to amend these regulations is
denied by the city council or that the application for amendment is withdrawn
after the hearing of the planning board, the zoning administrator shall have
the authority to refuse to accept another application for any similar amendment
within one year from the date of hearing of the previous application before the
board.
   C.   Amendments To Official Zoning Map (Rezoning):
      1.   An amendment proposing changes in the official zoning map shall
follow substantially the same procedures as provided for in subsection B of
this section, with the following additional requirements to be adhered to:
         a.   The applicant shall provide the names and addresses of all
property owners within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the proposed amendment
area.
         b.   The application for amendment shall be signed by an owner of
record, or his authorized agent, in the area included in the application.
         c.   In the event that an application filed by a real property owner
in the area involved includes any property other than owned by the applicant,
then before the application will be accepted for processing, a petition in
favor of the request signed by the real property owners representing at least
sixty five percent (65%) of the land area to be included in the application
must be submitted. The petition shall bear the property owners signatures and
addresses, the legal description and land area of each property represented in
the petition, the total land area represented by the petition and the total
land area of individual properties included in the application.
         d.   The staff of the planning board shall mail a notice to all
property owners included in the proposed amendment area, and all property
owners adjacent and within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the boundary of the
proposed amendment area. Where the subject property abuts a public right of
way, the one hundred fifty foot (150') measurement shall be in addition to the
right of way along the abutting side. The notice shall be made no less than
fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the planning board hearing date. (Ord. A-
407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 11-04, 4-18-2011; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012)
         e.   In the event that a written protest against a proposed amendment
is filed in the office of the zoning administrator no later than ten (10) days
following planning board action, by the owners of twenty five percent (25%) or
more, either of the area of the lots included in the proposed change or those
lots within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a lot included in a proposed
change such amendment shall not become effective except by the favorable vote
of two-thirds (2/3) of the present and voting members of the city council,
provided that the required number of votes shall not be less than a majority of
the full membership of the city council. (Ord. 00-01, 2-22-2000; amd. Ord. 11-
04, 4-18-2011; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012)
      2.   In the event that the city council grants the application to amend
or rezone, they shall notify the zoning administrator of their action and he
shall be responsible for updating the official zoning map. The updating shall
include the posting on the face of the official zoning map the date and the
number of the resolution or ordinance amending the map.
      3.   In the event that an application to amend (rezone) is denied by the
city council or that the application is withdrawn after the planning board
hearing, the zoning administrator shall have the authority to refuse to accept
another application for any similar amendment within one year from the date of
the hearing of the previous application before the board. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-
1982; amd. Ord. 11-04, 4-18-2011; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012)
   D.   Conditional Zoning:
      1.   In the event that it is found to be in the best interests of the
city, as well as advantageous to property owners seeking a change in zoning
boundaries, if certain more restrictive conditions were proposed by property
owners as part of their request for rezoning, an owner of land may voluntarily
offer in writing conditions relating to the use and/or development of land for
which a rezoning is requested. This offer may be made either at the time the
application for rezoning is filed or may be made at a later time during the
rezoning process.
      2.   The offer of conditions may be amended during the process of
rezoning consideration, provided that any amended or additional conditions are
entered voluntarily by the owner. An owner may withdraw all or part of its
offer of conditions any time prior to final rezoning action of the city
council, provided that, if such withdrawal occurs subsequent to the planning
board's public hearing on the original rezoning request, then the rezoning
application shall be referred to the planning board for a new public hearing
with appropriate notice and a new recommendation.
      3.   If the city council finds the rezoning request and offer of
conditions acceptable subject to the considerations of subsection F of this
section, the offered conditions shall be incorporated into a formal written
statement of conditions acceptable to the owner and conforming in form to the
provisions of this subsection. The statement of conditions shall be
incorporated by attachment or otherwise as an inseparable part of the ordinance
adopted by the city council to accomplish the requested rezoning.
      4.   The city council, while reviewing the compatibility of the rezoning
request with the considerations of subsection F1 of this section, shall
consider compatibility of allowed uses and the performance of the conditional
restrictions along with the intent of the underlying future land use shown for
the parcel in the city-county growth policy maps rather than strict adherence
to growth policy land use designations such as commercial and residential.
      5.   The statement of conditions shall:
         a.   Be in a form recordable with the Flathead County clerk and
recorder or, in the alternative, be accompanied by a recordable affidavit or
memorandum prepared and signed by the owner giving notice of the statement of
conditions in a manner acceptable to the city council.
         b.   Contain a legal description of the land to which it pertains.
         c.   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of
conditions runs with the land and is binding upon successor owners of the land.
         d.   Incorporate by attachment or reference any diagram, plans or
other documents submitted or approved by the owner that are necessary to
illustrate the implementation of the statement of conditions. If any such
documents are incorporated by reference, the reference shall specify where the
document may be examined.
         e.   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of
conditions or an affidavit or memorandum giving notice thereof may be recorded
by the city with the Flathead County clerk and recorder.
         f.   Contain the notarized signatures of all of the owners of the
subject land preceded by a statement attesting to the fact that they
voluntarily offer and consent to the provisions contained within the statement
of conditions.
      6.   Upon the rezoning taking effect, the zoning map shall be amended to
reflect the new zoning classification along with a designation that the land
was rezoned with a statement of conditions (SC). The city clerk shall maintain
a listing of all lands rezoned with a statement of conditions.
      7.   The approved statement of conditions or an affidavit or memorandum
giving notice thereof shall be filed by the city with the Flathead County clerk
and recorder. The city council shall have authority to waive this requirement
if it determines that, given the nature of the conditions and/or the time frame
within which the conditions are to be satisfied, the recording of such a
document would be of no material benefit to the city or to any subsequent owner
of the land.
      8.   Upon the rezoning taking effect, the use of the land so rezoned
shall conform thereafter to all of the requirements regulating use and
development within the new zoning district as modified by any more restrictive
provisions contained in the statement of conditions.
      9.   Any person who establishes a development or commences a use upon
land that has been rezoned with conditions shall continuously operate and
maintain the development or use in compliance with all of the conditions set
forth in the statement of conditions. Any failure to comply with a condition
contained within the statement of conditions shall constitute a violation of
this zoning ordinance and be punishable accordingly. Additionally, any such
violation shall be deemed a nuisance per se and subject to judicial abatement
as provided by law.
      10.   Unless another time period is specified in the ordinance rezoning
the subject land, the approved development and/or use of the land pursuant to
building and other required permits must be commenced upon the land within
eighteen (18) months after the rezoning took effect and thereafter proceed
diligently to completion. This time limitation may upon written request be
extended by the city council for an additional twelve (12) months if it is
demonstrated to the city council's reasonable satisfaction that there is a
strong likelihood that the development and/or use will commence within the
period of extension and proceed diligently thereafter to completion and the
city council finds that there has not been a change in circumstances that would
render the current zoning with statement of conditions incompatible with other
zones and uses in the surrounding area or otherwise inconsistent with sound
zoning policy.
      11.   If approved development and/or use of the rezoned land do not occur
within the time frame specified under subsection D10 of this section, then the
land shall revert to its former zoning classification. The reversion process
shall be initiated by the city council requesting that the planning board
proceed with consideration of rezoning of the land to its former zoning
classification. The procedure for considering and making this reversionary
rezoning shall thereafter be the same as applies to all other rezoning
requests.
      12.   When land that is rezoned with a statement of conditions is
thereafter rezoned to a different zoning classification or to the same zoning
classification but with a different or no statement of conditions, whether as a
result of a reversion of zoning pursuant to subsection D11 of this section or
otherwise, the statement of conditions imposed under the former zoning
classification shall cease to be in effect. Upon the owner's written request,
the city clerk shall record with the Flathead County clerk and recorder that
the statement of conditions is no longer in effect.
      13.   During the time period for commencement of an approved development
or use specified pursuant to subsection D10 of this section or during any
extension thereof granted by the city council, the city shall not add to or
alter the conditions in the statement of conditions. The statement of
conditions may be amended in the same manner as was prescribed for the original
rezoning and statement of conditions.
      14.   Nothing in the statement of conditions nor in the provisions of
this subsection shall be deemed to prohibit the city from rezoning all or any
portion of land that is subject to a statement of conditions to another zoning
classification. Any rezoning shall be conducted in compliance with this title
and state statutes.
      15.   The city shall not require an owner to offer conditions as a
requirement for rezoning. The lack of an offer of conditions shall not affect
an owner's rights under this title. (Ord. 08-07, 4-28-2008; amd. Ord. 11-04, 4-
18-2011; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012)
   E.   Zoning Upon Annexation:
      1.   Timing. A city zoning district classification may be assigned to
property annexed into the city at the time of annexation if the zoning district
classification:
         a.   Authorizes land uses comparable to the land uses authorized by
county zoning;
         b.   Authorizes land uses that are consistent with land uses approved
by the board of county commissioners or board of adjustment; or
         c.   Is consistent with the land use and zoning recommendations
adopted in the growth policy and any amendment thereto.
      2.   Procedure:
         a.   Application must be made on a form approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         b.   The city council will consider the application and determine
whether to pass a resolution of intent to annex and assign a city zoning
classification.
         c.   The planning staff will set a public hearing before city council
and publish a public notice which advertises the public hearing for two
successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation with the first
publication occurring at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the city
council meeting at which the application is to be considered.
         d.   City staff shall mail a notice to all property owners included in
the proposed amendment area, and all adjacent property owners within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of the boundary of the proposed amendment area. The
notice shall be mailed no less than fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the
city council meeting.
         e.   At the public hearing, the city council will consider the staff
report, staff recommendation, and public input and issue a decision to accept
or reject the annexation and zoning district classification.
         f.   If the city council approves the application, the annexation and
zoning district classification are effective immediately.
      3.   Interim zoning. The city council may apply interim zoning to the
annexed property in accordance with state law.
   F.   Considerations: When considering an application for amendment to the
provisions of these regulations or the official zoning map, the planning board
and the city council shall be guided by and give consideration to the
following:
      1.   Zoning regulations must be:
         a.   Made in accordance with a growth policy; and
         b.   Designed to:
            (1)   Secure safety from fire and other dangers;
            (2)   Promote public health, public safety, and general welfare;
and
            (3)   Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
      2.   In the adoption of zoning regulations, the city shall consider:
         a.   Reasonable provision of adequate light and air;
         b.   The effect on motorized and nonmotorized transportation systems;
         c.   Promotion of compatible urban growth;
         d.   The character of the district and its particular suitability for
particular uses;
         e.   Conserving the value of buildings;
         f.   Encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the
jurisdictional area; and
         g.   That historical uses and established use patterns and recent
change in use trends will be weighed equally and consideration not be given one
to the exclusion of the other. (Ord. 09-17, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 11-04, 4-18-
2011; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 23-06, 5-1-2023)
11-7-13: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, partnership, association, company, corporation or
individual who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions of these regulations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as prescribed by this
code 1 . Each day a violation of these regulations remains after notice to the
offending party, as described below, shall constitute a separate misdemeanor
offense.
   B.   Any person, partnership, association, company, corporation or
individual who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions of these regulations shall be deemed to have committed a
municipal infraction and, upon proof of violation, shall be assessed a civil
penalty as prescribed by this code 2 . Each day a violation of these
regulations remains after notice to the offending party, as described below,
shall constitute a separate municipal infraction.
   C.   The city shall elect to treat each separate violation as described in
subsections A and B of this section as either a misdemeanor offense or as a
municipal infraction. The city may treat an initial violation as a misdemeanor
offense and a subsequent violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa. In
addition, the city's decision to treat a violation as a misdemeanor offense or
a municipal infraction shall not prevent the city from instituting a civil
action to abate the violation.
   D.   A violation or a suspected violation may be brought to the attention of
the zoning administrator, or designee, by any individual who feels that a
violation has or may be occurring. The zoning administrator, or designee, shall
then conduct an investigation into the alleged violation. Except as provided in
subsections D1 and D2 of this section, if the investigation appears to uphold
the allegation, the offending party shall first be notified, who shall have a
minimum of ten (10) days in which to correct the matter, or in which to come to
an agreement on a time frame in which the violation may be abated. Such an
agreement shall be binding. In the event these efforts fail to result in an
abatement of the violation, the zoning administrator shall then either: 1)
issue a civil citation pursuant to this code 3 ; or 2) file a complaint with
the city attorney, and in which case the matter shall come before a court of
competent jurisdiction for resolution, either through a misdemeanor prosecution
or a civil action.
      1.   For the second and any subsequent violation of a similar section of
these regulations, the ten (10) day notice requirement may be waived.
      2.   If the alleged violation consists of an activity which the zoning
administrator determines must be immediately abated in order to protect the
public interest, health, comfort, convenience, safety or general welfare, the
ten (10) day notice requirement may be waived.
   E.   Every violation of these regulations shall be a separate and distinct
offense, and in the case of continuing violation, each day's continuance
thereof may be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense. The existence of a
criminal or other remedy, or the pendency of a criminal proceeding, under the
provisions of these regulations, shall not be construed to affect the right of
the city council to proceed with the enforcement of any and all of the
provisions hereof by civil proceedings either at law or in equity in any court
of competent jurisdiction.
   F.   Any person applying for a permit or other land use approval under these
regulations, or who is otherwise required to comply with these regulations,
shall be responsible for becoming familiar with these regulations and for
complying fully with such regulations. The failure of city officials to
identify a violation of these regulations in an application or proposal, or the
failure of city officials to notify a person submitting an application or
proposal of a particular requirement or restriction contained in these
regulations, shall not excuse the applicant or the person making the proposal
from the obligation to comply fully with such regulations. Any permit or land
use approval issued in violation of these regulations, or which includes terms
or omits terms in violation of these regulations, shall be deemed to be
invalid. (Ord. 09-18, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 11-04, 4-18-2011; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-
2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code.
2 2. See section
  1-4-4 of this code.
3 1. See section
  1-4-5 of this code.
CHAPTER 8
APPENDICES
SECTION:
11-8-1: Appendices
11-8-1: APPENDICES:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2038.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2036.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2034.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2032.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1978.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1980.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1982.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1984.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3111.png]
 
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982; amd. Ord. 24-08, 7-15-2024)
APPENDIX G – SIGN STANDARDS TABLE
              BUILDING MOUNTED SIGNS FREESTANDING SIGNS
SIGN DISTRICT Number Of Allowable    Number Of Height3 Area Per Sign4 Spacing
Type Of Use   Signs     Area4        Signs
                                                BUILDING MOUNTED    FREESTANDING SIGNS
                                                SIGNS
                                                Number Allowable                                            Area
SIGN DISTRICT Type Of Use                       Of     Area4        Number Of Signs                 Height3 Per     Spacing
                                                Signs                                                       Sign4
HIGHWAY DISTRICT
                                                       0.5 square                                           75
Commercial, conditional, institutional or other        foot/lineal  1 for 150 foot lot                      square
nonresidential use                              3      foot of      2 for 151 foot – 300 foot lot 10 feet feet    60 feet
                                                       building     3 for 301 foot – 450 foot lot         per
                                                       frontage                                             sign
                                                                                                            65
                                                                                                            square
                                                       0.6 square                                           feet
                                                       foot/lineal  1 for 150 foot lot                      per
Multitenant or building developments            1 per  foot of      2 for 151 foot – 300 foot lot 10 feet sign    60 feet
                                                tenant building     3 for 301 foot – 450 foot lot         plus 10
                                                       frontage                                             square
                                                                                                            feet
                                                                                                            per
                                                                                                            tenant5
Residential – single-family, PUD/multi-family        2 square     1 per subdivision or                    24
development                                     1      feet         development                     4 feet  square
                                                                                                            feet
OLD TOWN DISTRICT
                                                       0.4 square
Commercial, conditional, institutional or other        foot/lineal                                          24
nonresidential use                              3      foot of      1 per development or site1      6 feet  square  60 feet
                                                       building                                             feet
                                                       frontage
                                                                                                            24
                                                       0.5 square                                           square
                                                       foot/lineal                                          feet
Multitenant or building developments            2 per  foot of      1 per development or site1      6 feet  plus 5  60 feet
                                                tenant building                                             square
                                                       frontage                                             feet
                                                                                                            per
                                                                                                            tenant
                                                                                                                    COMMUNIT
Residential – single-family, PUD/multi-family        2 square     1 per subdivision or                    24      Y
development                                     1      feet         development                     4 feet  square  BUSINESS/
                                                                                                            feet    RESORT
                                                                                                                    DISTRICT
Commercial, conditional, institutional or other        24 square                                            24
nonresidential use                              1      feet         1 per development or site1      6 feet  square  60 feet
                                                                                                            feet
                                                       24 square
                                                       feet for
                                                       buildings
                                                       less than or
                                                       equal to 40                                          24
                                                       lineal feet                                          square
                                                       of frontage                                          feet
Multitenant or building developments            1 per  or 24 square 1 per development or site1      6 feet  plus 5  60 feet
                                                tenant feet plus                                            square
                                                       0.6 square                                           feet
                                                       foot per                                             per
                                                       lineal foot                                          tenant
                                                       of building
                                                       frontage in
                                                       excess of 40
                                                       lineal feet
Residential – single-family, PUD/multi-family        2 square     1 per subdivision or                    24
development                                     1      feet         development                     4 feet  square
                                                                                                            feet
BUSINESS SERVICE DISTRICT
                                                                                                            50
Commercial, conditional, institutional or other        24 square    1 for 250 foot lot frontage             square
nonresidential use                              2      feet         2 for 251 foot lot frontage or  8 feet  feet    60 feet
                                                                    greater or corner lot                   per
                                                                                                            face
                                                       24 square                                            24
                                                       feet per                                             square
                                                       tenant (or                                           feet
Multi-tenant or building developments           1 per  30 square    1 per development or site1      6 feet  plus 5  60 feet
                                                tenant feet if no                                           square
                                                       freestanding                                         feet
                                                       sign)                                                per
                                                                                                            tenant
Residential - single-family, PUD/multi-family          2 square     1 per subdivision or                    24
development                                     1      feet         development                     4 feet  square   
                                                                                                            feet
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
Residential – single-family, PUD/multi-family        2 square     1 per subdivision or                    10
development                                     1      feet         development                     4 feet  square
                                                                                                            feet
Conditional, institutional or other             1 per  24 square                                            10
nonresidential use                              site2  feet         1 per development or site2      4 feet  square
                                                                                                            feet
 
Notes:
      1.   Developed site is any tract of land, which constitutes a site on
which development is proposed, under construction or exists, including multiple
contiguous lots.
      2.   One sign permitted, either one wall sign or one freestanding sign.
      3.   See sign height measurement standards.
      4.   See sign area measurement standards.
      5.   For multitenant buildings or businesses, each freestanding sign gets
a base allowance of 65 square feet. The development then gets an additional 10
square feet per tenant to be split by the number of freestanding signs. For
example, if a multitenant business has 230 feet of frontage and 8 tenants, the
business can have 2 freestanding signs of 65 square feet each, plus 80 square
feet to be divided between the 2 signs, for a total of 105 square feet per
freestanding sign.
(Ord. 03-19, 7-7-2003; amd. Ord. 24-08, 7-15-2024)
CHAPTER 9
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Interpretation
11-9-2: Definitions
11-9-1: INTERPRETATION:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms and words are hereby
defined as follows:
   A.   Words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular; the
word "shall" is mandatory and not permissive; the word "person" includes
individuals, partnerships, corporations, clubs or associations. The following
words or terms, when applied in these regulations, shall carry full force when
used interchangeably: lot, plot, parcel or premises; used, arranged, occupied
or maintained; sold or dispensed; construct, reconstruct, erect, alter
(structurally or otherwise), but not the term maintenance.
   B.   The various terms or words used in these regulations are defined in the
following section.
   C.   Where there appears to be a conflict between the content of the text of
these regulations and any definition given in this chapter, the text shall
control.
   D.   If any question of definition arises for a term that is not provided
for in these regulations, the Zoning Administrator shall request a definition
from the Planning Board who may determine an appropriate definition with the
counsel of the City Attorney if need be. That definition shall then be held to
be the official definition of that term until a formal amendment to these
regulations, including that term and definition, is put forth and adopted.
(Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982)
11-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A room or rooms on the same lot as primary
dwelling that may be occupied by persons who are not members of the primary
dwelling family. An ADU is independently habitable and provides the basic
requirements of shelter, heating, cooking, and sanitation. Only one ADU or
guesthouse is permitted on a lot accessory to a single-family home.
   There are two types of ADUs:
   A.   Attached. A dwelling unit attached to or located inside the primary
dwelling unit. Examples include converted living space in basements and attics
or attached garages, additions, or a combination thereof.
   B.   Detached. A dwelling unit completely detached from and accessory to the
primary dwelling. Examples include converted detached garages or other
accessory buildings, new cottages, or living space over garages.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached, subordinate building situated on the same lot
with the main building and used for an accessory use. A "guesthouse",
"accessory apartment", or other living quarters as defined in this section may
be an accessory building or may be a component of an accessory building. This
term also includes fabric or metal structures with plastic, aluminum, PVC, or
similar frames or supports, whether or not anchored to the ground.
ACCESSORY USE: A subordinate use of a building, other structure or use of land:
   A.   Which is clearly incidental to the primary use of the main building,
other structure, or use of land; and
   B.   Which is used customarily in connection with the main building, other
structure or use of land; and
   C.   Which is located on the same lot with the main building, other
structure or use of land.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING: Housing affordable, based upon deed or trusts, rent or
mortgage payments, to low or moderate income households. Affordable housing
payments are approximately thirty percent (30%) of gross monthly income, less
insurance, Property Taxes, adjusted for family size.
AFFORDABLE UNIT: A single dwelling unit in a development that has been deed
restricted for long-term affordability.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes, including raising of
crops, dairying, pasturage, animal and poultry husbandry, certain feedlots and
the necessary accessory uses normally associated with such uses. Raising and
harvesting of timber is also included.
ALLEY: A passage or way, open to public travel, and dedicated to public use,
affording a secondary means of vehicular access to abutting lots and not
intended for general traffic circulation.
APPLICANT: A person who files an application for permit under this title and
who is either the owner of the land on which that proposed activity would be
located, a contract purchaser, or the authorized agent of such persons.
AREA LIGHT: A luminaire equipped with a lamp that produces over one thousand
eight hundred (1,800) lumens. Area lights include, but are not limited to,
streetlights, parking lot lights and yard lights. (See subsection
11-3-25H, table 1 of this title for light output of various lamps.)
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, LIMITED: Any building or premises used primarily for the
servicing of motor vehicles including grease racks, tire repair, battery
charging, hand washing of automobiles, sales of merchandise and supplies
related to the above servicing of motor vehicles, engine overhauling, brake
work, exhaust system work, mechanical repair and light welding but excluding
body and fender work, painting, storage of vehicles not in operating condition
or other work involving noise, fumes, glare or smoke.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any building or premises used primarily for the
retail sale of gasoline and lubricants, but which may also provide for the
incidental servicing of motor vehicles including grease racks, tire repairs,
battery charging, hand washing of automobiles, sale of merchandise and supplies
related to the servicing of motor vehicles and minor replacements, but
excluding body and fender work, engine overhauling, painting, welding, storage
of automobiles not in operating condition or other work involving noise, fumes,
glare or smoke.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: See definition of Junkyard.
AWNING: A shelter projecting from and supported by an exterior wall of a
building constructed of nonrigid materials on a supporting framework.
BAR/LOUNGE: An establishment licensed by the state of Montana for on premises
consumption of alcoholic beverages. This definition is specifically meant to
exclude holders of restaurant beer wine (RBW) licenses.
BARBERSHOP/HAIR SALON: Offices maintained and used as place of business
conducted by persons licensed and trained as a barber or cosmetologist.
BAY WINDOW: A window feature that protrudes from a wall of a structure and
encloses an interior space, or bay, on three (3) sides. A bay window does not
include floor space of any kind. Bay window is inclusive of the terms "oriel"
and "oriel window".
BED AND BREAKFAST: A single-family detached dwelling containing, in addition to
living accommodations for a resident-manager, individual sleeping rooms without
cooking facilities for the purpose of providing to the general public, for
compensation, lodging, bathroom facilities and breakfast to overnight patrons
only.
BLOCK: That property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
(2) nearest intersecting streets, or nearest intersecting street and railroad
right of way, or unsubdivided acreage, or waterways, but not an alley of
sufficient size to interrupt the continuity of development on both sides
thereof.
BOARDING HOUSE: A dwelling or part thereof, other than a hotel, motel or
restaurant, where one or more meals per day and lodging for periods of one week
or longer are provided for compensation, for two (2) or more unrelated persons,
where no cooking or dining facilities are provided in the individual rooms.
BOULEVARD: That part of the public right of way not covered by sidewalk or
other paving, lying between the property line and the curb line of any street.
(In the absence of a curb, the curb line of a street shall be deemed to be the
edge of that portion of the public right of way maintained and open to the use
of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.)
BUFFER: Land area used to visibly separate one use from another through
screening and distance; to shield or block noise, light, glare, or visual or
other conditions; to minimize physical passage to nonsimilar areas; or to
reduce air pollution, dust, dirt, and litter.
BUILDABLE AREA: That portion of a lot upon which a building may be lawfully
constructed.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT: The area within the perimeter of a building measured at the
exterior foundation including any patios with a roof and covered or uncovered
decks and stairs.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the undisturbed ground level at the
perimeter of the building to a plane that is parallel with that undisturbed
ground to the highest point of the roof or parapet wall as viewed from an
architectural section/elevation 1 . Articulated rooflines shall be encouraged.
BUILDING HEIGHT; BIG MOUNTAIN VILLAGE AND RESORT RESIDENTIAL: The vertical
distance from the proposed finish grade measured at the front and back of the
building to the eave line (see figure 1).
FIGURE 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1988.gif]
BUILDING, MULTI-TENANT: A building in which two (2) or more separate businesses
are conducted within a single building, with each business having a separate
definable space, as in a mall or mini-mall where, for example, each space has
partition walls, separate utilities, and a separate entrance to a common hall
or the exterior.
BUSINESS INCUBATORS: Facilities that are dedicated to startup and early stage
companies. Business incubators integrate into the community in a number of ways
and assist startup companies with such things as:
   A.   Access to angel investors or venture capital.
   B.   Access to bank loans, loan funds and guarantee programs.
   C.   Advisory boards and mentors.
   D.   Business basics.
   E.   Comprehensive business training programs.
   F.   Help with accounting/financial management.
   G.   Help with business etiquette.
   H.   Help with presentation skills.
   I.   Help with regulatory compliance.
   J.   High speed internet access.
   K.   Intellectual property management.
   L.   Links to higher education resources.
   M.   Links to strategic partners.
   N.   Management team identification.
   O.   Marketing.
   P.   Networking activities.
   Q.   Technology commercialization assistance.
CAMPGROUND: Any area or tract of land used or designed to accommodate two (2)
or more camping parties, including cabins, tents, camping trailers, recreation
vehicles or other camping outfits.
CANOPY: A roofed shelter covering a sidewalk, driveway or other similar area.
The shelter may be wholly supported by a building, or may be wholly or
partially supported by columns, poles or braces.
CANOPY TREE: A tree that, under normal forest conditions, will compose the top
layer or canopy of vegetation and generally will reach a mature height of
greater than forty feet (40').
CANTILEVER: A noun that describes living space in a structure that protrudes
from a wall and is not supported by a foundation, pilings, or other load
bearing device connected to the ground.
CARPORT: An open building, the principal use of which is the storage of motor
vehicles, which has at least fifty percent (50%) of the total area of its sides
open to the weather.
CASINO: Any establishment licensed by the Montana department of revenue for six
or more video gambling machines or gambling devices, or is licensed for and
conducts the following types of gambling: Calcutta pools, live card games, live
card tournaments and live keno.
CHILDCARE CENTER: See definition of Daycare.
CHURCH: A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
CITY: The city of Whitefish, Flathead County, state of Montana.
CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE: The triangular area at the intersection of two (2) roads
or a road and railroad tracks created by extending the curb lines (where there
are no curb lines the edge of the travel surface is used) back from the point
of intersection a distance of forty feet (40'), then drawing a line across both
ends to close the triangle 1 .
CLEARING: The removal of vegetation from a property, whether by cutting or
other means.
CLUB: An incorporated or unincorporated association of persons organized for
social, fraternal, religious, athletic, educational, literary or charitable
purposes whose activities are confined to the members and their guests and are
not extended to the general public.
CLUBHOUSE: The building and/or land occupied by a club.
COFFEE SHOPS/SANDWICH SHOPS: Facilities serving nonalcoholic beverages,
pastries, and/or breakfast and lunch.
COMMERCIAL USE: A use operated for profit or compensation.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A motor vehicle used for purposes other than a family car,
such as a taxi, delivery or service vehicle.
COMMON AREA: Land held in common and/or single ownership and not reserved for
the exclusive use or benefit of an individual tenant or owner.
COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITY: One of the following facilities that may or may
not be licensed by a governmental agency and providing care on a twenty four
(24) hour a day basis and as defined by state law:
   A.   A community group home for developmentally, mentally, or severely
disabled persons or the elderly that does not provide skilled or intermediate
nursing care.
   B.   A youth care facility in which substitute care is provided to youth,
including youth foster homes, kinship foster homes, youth group homes, youth
shelter care facilities, and transitional living programs, but excluding youth
assessment centers.
   C.   An adult foster family care home.
   D.   A halfway house operated in accordance with regulations of the Montana
department of public health and human services for the rehabilitation of
alcoholics or drug dependent persons and/or supervised living centers for
probationers.
   E.   A personal care facility.
   F.   A maternity home, including administrative offices, services for
childcare, counseling, classroom training, independent living training, and
support groups.
COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, TYPE I: A community residential facility
serving eight (8) or fewer individuals, exclusive of caretakers and
administration.
COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, TYPE II: A community residential facility
serving nine (9) or more individuals, exclusive of caretakers and
administration.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: See definition of Growth Policy.
CONDITIONAL USE: Those uses requiring the granting of a conditional use permit.
Because of characteristics peculiar to the uses, or because of the size,
technological processes or equipment, or because of the exact location with
reference to surroundings, streets and existing improvements or demands upon
public facilities, these uses require a special degree of control to make such
uses consistent with and compatible to other existing or permissible uses in
the same area.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: An authorization to conduct a use or activity when
authorization is required by these regulations and when established according
to the procedures outlined in section
11-7-8 of this title.
CONDITIONAL ZONING: The attachment to a rezoning of more restrictive special
conditions in a zoning district than are found in the text of the zoning
ordinance, offered by the landowner in a binding agreement such as a covenant
or a deed restriction, and enforceable by the city. Conditions approved may
limit residential density, prohibit structures or uses of land otherwise
permitted in a use district, require compliance with design or development
standards, impose time limits on current or future development actions, or have
other limitations.
CONDOMINIUM: Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and certain
parts of a building, together with individual ownership in fee of a particular
unit or apartment in the building.
CONDOMINIUM, RESORT: A condominium whose main use is for the same purpose as
that normally associated with a resort.
CONVALESCENT HOME: See definition of Nursing Home.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail establishment of up to five thousand (5,000) square
feet selling primarily food products, household items, newspapers and
magazines, candy, and beverages, and a limited amount of freshly prepared foods
such as sandwiches and salads for off premises consumption.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or buildings, which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by the
building or buildings including the open space in a house, court or apartment,
providing access to the units thereof.
DAYCARE: A use which provides daily care and supervision of five (5) or more
children or handicapped, disabled or elderly adults not related by blood or
marriage and not the legal ward of the attendant adult. Homes (5 to 15
individuals) must be registered with the appropriate state agency. Centers (16
or more individuals) must be licensed by the appropriate state agency.
DEVELOPER: An owner, or any person with authorization from the owner, who
intends to improve or to construct improvements upon his property.
DEVELOPMENT: A land use consisting of the construction or exterior alteration
of structures; grading, dredging, drilling, or dumping; filling; removal of
sand, gravel, or minerals; bulkheading; driving of pilings; or any project of a
temporary or permanent nature which modifies structures (except interior
remodels and minor additions), land, or shorelines and which does not fall
within the allowable exemptions contained in this code.
DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION: The designated official for the city of
Whitefish assigned to carry out the enforcement of this title.
DISPLAY LOT OR AREA: Outdoor areas where active nighttime sales activity
occurs. To qualify as a display lot, one of the following specific uses must
occur: automobile sales, boat sales, tractor sales, building supply sales,
gardening or nursery sales, assembly lots, swap meets. Uses not on this list
must be approved as display lot uses by the planning director.
DOMESTIC WORKER: A person who works within the employer's household and
performs a variety of household services for an individual or a family,
including, but not limited to, housekeeping, care of children, cooking,
building maintenance, and landscaping maintenance.
DRIP LINE: A line on the ground established by a vertical plane extending from
a tree's outermost branch tips down to the ground, i.e., the line enclosing the
area directly beneath the tree's crown from which rainfall would drip.
DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT: A use whose retail character is dependent on a driveway
approach and parking space on the premises for motor vehicles so as to either
serve customers while in the vehicle or permit in a vehicle, consumption of
food or beverages obtained on the premises.
DRIVEWAY: A private, vehicular access connecting a house, carport, parking
area, garage or other building with the street.
DUPLEX: A single structure constructed with two (2) dwelling units under a
single roof on a single lot for occupancy by two (2) families, either side-by-
side with a common party wall and roof or on separate floors. Also referred to
as a two-family dwelling. Attaching two non-attached single-family homes
together with a breezeway or roof extension of any length does not constitute a
duplex.
DUST FREE: The property is maintained dust free by paving with one of the
following methods: a) asphaltic concrete; b) cement concrete; or c) suitable
compacted crushed rock or gravel.
DUST FREE CONDITION: The regular sweeping, vacuuming or washing of paved areas,
or the grading, compaction and/or the application of road oil or other dust
retardants to a gravel surface to eliminate nuisances to the surrounding area.
DWELLING GROUP OR CLUSTER: A pattern of residential development wherein
detached single-family through four-plex units are grouped together or on a
single lot around access courts with the remainder of the yard left in its
natural condition or as common open space.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building or buildings attached to each other and
containing five (5) or more dwelling units. The term "multi-family dwelling" is
intended to apply to attached units with a common separation like a ceiling or
wall and where individual dwellings typically have their primary access to a
common hallway or corridor.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building containing only one dwelling unit entirely
separated by open space from buildings on adjoining lots or building sites.
Single-family dwellings also include tiny homes and manufactured homes with or
without a chassis, with tow hitches, wheels, and axles removed, affixed to a
permanent foundation.
DWELLING, TINY HOME: A small dwelling unit with or without a chassis as defined
by and built to the standards of Appendix Q of the International Residential
Code.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms within a building arranged, designed or used
for residential purposes for one family and containing independent sanitary and
cooking facilities. The presence of cooking facilities conclusively establishes
the intent to use for residential purposes.
EIGHTY FIVE DEGREE (85°) CUTOFF TYPE OF LUMINAIRES: Luminaires that do not
allow light to escape above an eighty five degree (85°) angle measured from a
vertical line from the center of the lamp extended to the ground (see section
11-3-25, figure 2 of this title).
ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SUBSTATION: A public utility facility involving an
assembly of equipment designed to receive energy from a high voltage
distribution supply system to convert it to a form suitable for local
distribution and to distribute the energy to feeders through switching
equipment designed to protect the service from the effects of faults.
ENTERTAINMENT: Uses catering to visitors and residents that provide
recreational activities, including indoor theaters, bowling alleys, enclosed
skating or golf facilities, and other similar indoor facilities.
EXTERIOR LIGHTING: Temporary or permanent lighting that is installed, located
or used in such a manner to cause light rays to shine outdoors. Luminaires that
are indoors that are intended to light something outside are considered
exterior lighting for the purpose of this definition.
EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES: Commercial or industrial operations involving the
removal and processing of natural accumulations of sand, rock, soil, gravel or
any mineral.
FACADE: The entire building front including the parapet which faces and is
parallel to or nearly parallel to a public or private street. There can only be
one building facade for each street upon which a building faces.
FAMILY:
   A.   An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, and usual domestic workers, living together as a single housekeeping
unit in a dwelling unit; or
   B.   A group of not more than four (4) persons, who need not be related,
living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
FLOODPLAIN, 100-YEAR: Those lands subject to flooding which have at least a one
percent (1%) probability of flooding occurrence in any calendar year; and
specifically, the floodplain as shown on the flood boundary and floodway map as
prepared by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the floors of a building
or buildings measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls and from the
centerline of division walls. Floor area shall include: basement space where
the ceiling is at least four and one-half feet (41/2') above the ground
elevation of adjacent portion of the lot, elevator shafts and stairwells at
each floor, mechanical equipment rooms or attic spaces with headroom of seven
and one-half feet (71/2') or more, penthouse floors, interior balconies and
mezzanines and enclosed porches. Floor area shall not include: accessory water
tanks and cooling towers, mechanical equipment or attic spaces with headroom of
less than seven and one-half feet (71/2'), exterior steps or stairs, terraces,
breezeways and open spaces.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The floor area ratio of a building shall be the ratio of the
gross floor area of the building, excluding those parts of the building
specifically excluded, to the net land area of the site or lot. This ratio may
be expressed either as a percent or as a decimal.
FOOD VENDOR: A self-contained mobile trailer unit, truck, or cart selling food
or beverages to the general public, subject to the provisions of section 
11-3-23 of this title.
FOOT-CANDLE (fc): The American unit used to measure the total amount of light
cast on a surface (illuminance). One foot-candle is equivalent to the
illuminance produced by a source of one candle at a distance of one foot (1').
For example, the full moon produces 0.01 s. The s is measured with a light
meter. One foot-candle is approximately equal to ten (10) lux, the British unit
used to measure illuminance.
FORMULA RETAIL: A type of retail sales activity or retail sales establishment,
including restaurant, which, along with twelve (12) or more other retail sales
establishments, maintains two (2) or more of the following features: a
standardized array of merchandise, a standardized facade, a standardized decor
and color scheme, uniform apparel, standardized signage, a trademark or service
mark.
   Color Scheme: Selection of colors used throughout, such as on the
furnishings, permanent fixtures, and wall coverings, or as used on the facade.
   Decor: The style of interior finishings, which may include, but is not
limited to, style of furniture, wall coverings or permanent fixtures.
   Facade: The face or front of a building, including awnings, looking onto a
street or an open space.
   Service Mark: A word, phrase, symbol or design, or a combination of words,
phrases, symbols or designs that identifies and distinguishes the source of a
service from one party from those of others.
   Signage: Shall be defined pursuant to this section.
   Standardized: Does not mean identical, but means "substantially the same".
   Standardized Array Of Merchandise: Fifty percent (50%) or more of in stock
merchandise from a single distributor bearing uniform markings.
   Trademark: A word, phrase, symbol or design, or a combination of words,
phrases, symbols or designs that identifies and distinguishes the source of the
goods from one party from those of others.
   Uniform Apparel: Standardized items of clothing including, but not limited
to, standardized aprons, pants, shirts, smocks or dresses, hats, and pins
(other than nametags) as well as standardized colors of clothing.
FOSTER HOME: A type I or type II community residential facility (see
definitions of community residential facility; community residential facility,
type I; and community residential facility, type II) wherein the operator is
not legally related to the individuals supervised and is licensed by the State,
and wherein individuals reside and are provided with room, board, ordinary care
and supervision; except that more than eight (8) individuals may reside in a
home where the individuals are all related to one another as brothers and/or
sisters and still retain type I community residential facility status. The term
"foster home" shall include, without limitation by reason of enumeration,
receiving homes and free homes.
FRATERNITY/SORORITY: A building occupied by and maintained exclusively for
students affiliated with an academic or professional college or university, or
other recognized institution of higher learning and regulated by the
institution.
FULL CUTOFF LUMINAIRES: A luminaire designed and installed where no light is
emitted at or above a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on the
luminaire (see subsection
11-3-25H, figure 1 of this title).
GLARE: Stray, unshielded light striking the eye that may result in: a) nuisance
or annoyance glare such as light shining into a window; b) discomfort glare
such as bright light causing squinting of the eyes; c) disabling glare such as
bright light reducing the ability of the eyes to see into shadows; or d)
reduction of visual performance.
GRADE, FINISH: The average elevation of the finished surface of the ground
measured one foot (1') out from the base of the exterior foundation of a
building, or the average elevation of the finished surface of the ground at the
base of a structure measured one foot (1') out, exclusive of any artificial
embankment at the base of such building or structure.
GRADE, NATURAL: The elevation of the undisturbed natural surface of the ground
prior to any excavation or fill or erection of structures.
GRADING: The placement, removal, or movement of earth by use of mechanical
equipment on a property.
GREENBELT: An area of parkways, parks, or farm or timber lands designed to
prevent undesirable encroachments or a strip of land, variable in width, for
the planting, growing and maintaining of a sight obscuring screen of healthy
native trees or cultivated landscaping to attain an ultimate height of not less
than eight feet (8').
GROSS AREA: The area of a lot or parcel including all dedicated streets,
alleys, private accessways, roadway and/or alley easements. When the gross area
is applied to a proposed development, it shall mean the entirety of the area
within the boundaries of the proposed development properties. The boundaries of
an area already developed shall extend to the center of existing abutting
street or alley rights-of-way.
GROUND ELEVATION: The finished grade of a sidewalk adjacent to any front yard
property line or the adjacent street right-of-way line if no sidewalk exists.
On side and rear property lines, the ground elevation shall be the natural
grade of the side or rear property line.
GROUND FLOOR: The floor of a building at or nearest adjacent grade level
generally at the front or primary street entrance.
GROUP HOME: A type I or type II community residential facility (see definitions
of community residential facility; community residential facility, type I; and
community residential facility, type II) providing living facilities, sleeping
rooms and meals, and which shall have a permit issued by the appropriate
governmental agency 3 .
GROVE: A dense natural concentration of trees such that at a minimum there
would be three (3) or more trees, measuring at least three inches (3") in
diameter measured at a point four feet (4') above the adjacent ground, within a
twenty five foot (25') circle.
GROWTH POLICY: The Whitefish City-County Growth Policy and any amendments which
may be made thereto and adopted by the City Council as a guide to the
development and growth of the community pursuant to Montana Code Annotated
sections 76-1-601 through 76-1-607.
GUESTHOUSE: A detached structure, being accessory to a single- family detached
dwelling, designed and intended for use primarily by guests and/or domestic
workers for sleeping quarters. A guesthouse may contain cooking facilities.
HEDGE: See definition of solid planting.
HIGHWAY RETAIL: Characterized by those retail commercial uses requiring high
traffic flows and ease of access, usually those uses drawing the mobile
customer rather than the pedestrian.
HIGHWAY SERVICE: Those uses characterized by the necessity of use of automobile
access and high traffic counts, such as service stations, motels, restaurants,
recreational vehicle parks and other uses catering especially to the traveling
public.
HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT AREA: Any lot or parcel or any portion thereof that has a
slope of ten percent (10%) or greater.
HOLIDAY LIGHTING: Strings of individual lamps, where the lamps are at least
three inches (3") apart and the output per lamp is not greater than fifteen
(15) lumens.
HOME OCCUPATION: A home occupation is any occupation, profession, activity or
use which is clearly a customary, incidental and secondary use of a residential
dwelling unit and which does not alter the exterior of the property or affect
the residential character of the neighborhood.
HOMEOWNERS' PARK: A park which has been dedicated as part of a subdivision for
the exclusive use by the property owners within that subdivision, and is
maintained through private funds provided from annual fees paid to the
homeowners' association. In subdivisions where a homeowners' park provides
common lake access, the common lake access shall be a minimum of one-half (1/2)
acre in size and contain a minimum of one hundred feet (100') of lakefront,
except that an additional ten feet (10') of lakefront shall be added for each
dwelling unit in excess of five (5).
HOSPITAL: An institution providing health services, primarily for inpatients,
and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an integral
part of the institution, related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient
departments, training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices.
HOSPITAL, ANIMAL: See definition of veterinary hospital.
HOSPITALITY: Uses catering to the traveling public or the commercial,
recreational and leisure needs of visitor and resident alike including hotels,
motels and various types of lodging accommodations but not including
residential short-term rentals.
HOSTEL: A dwelling or part thereof, providing for two (2) or more unrelated
persons, individual sleeping spaces, common gathering areas, common restrooms
and common self-service cooking areas, for overnight rental in a supervised
setting. Additional living quarters are provided for the resident manager(s).
The capacity of the dwelling shall not exceed sleeping spaces for twenty (20)
individuals in WR-2, WR-3 and WR-4 Zoning Districts.
HOTEL: A building or buildings under single management advertised as a hotel
and containing five (5) or more individual sleeping rooms or suites, each
having a private bathroom attached thereto, for the purpose of providing
overnight lodging facilities to the general public for compensation with or
without meals, and typically providing on site recreation services, a staffed
front desk for reservations, housekeeping, bellhop, laundry, shuttles, and
related services. Where appropriately zoned, restaurant, bar, personal and
retail services and entertainment may also be available. Residential dwelling
units used as short-term rentals do not qualify as a hotel even if there are
five (5) or more under one ownership in a single commercial building unless
consistent with this definition of hotel.
HOUSING MITIGATION PLAN: An approved plan for providing permanently affordable
housing and/or complying with the Legacy Homes Program proposed by a developer
that indicates the quantity, size, design, location and phasing of units, or
outlines alternative methods such as providing land or cash-in- lieu.
IESNA: Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IES or IESNA). The
professional society of lighting engineers.
IESNA RECOMMENDED PRACTICES: The current publications of the IESNA setting
forth illuminance levels.
ILLUMINANCE: The amount of light falling on any point of a surface measured in
foot-candles or lux.
INDUSTRIAL, HEAVY: Industrial uses and services that include the processing of
raw materials (timber, wood chips, minerals, gravel, etc.) and use yards or out
buildings for the storage and manipulation of the raw materials. Uses include,
but are not limited to, mills, refineries, crushing facilities, stamping
facilities, etc. These uses are often but not always associated with
byproducts.
INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT: Industrial uses and services that typically do not create
any objectionable byproducts (such as dirt, glare, heat, odor, smoke, waste
material, etc.) which extend beyond the lot lines. The work occurs primarily
indoors to control the byproducts. Examples include, but are not limited to,
printing shops, binderies, sheet metal fabrication, electronic manufacture,
etc.
JUNKYARD: The use of a lot or portion thereof for the storage, keeping or
abandonment of junk, dismantled automobiles or other vehicles, or machinery or
parts thereof, including scrap metals, rags or other scrap materials. A
junkyard includes an automobile wrecking yard where one or more motor vehicles,
or parts thereof, unlicensed and not in running condition, are stored, but does
not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs, cats or similar
small animals, or combination thereof, which are in excess of four (4) months
of age, are maintained, exclusive of licensed veterinary medical facilities, or
on which more than two (2) litters per year are produced.
LAKE: As defined in section
13-1-5 of this Code.
LAMP: The generic term for an artificial light source, to be distinguished from
the whole assembly (see definition of luminaire). Commonly referred to as
"bulb".
LANDSCAPED AREA: A plot of land which has been decoratively or functionally
altered by contouring and planting shrubs, trees and/or vines, and with a
living or nonliving ground cover.
LANDSCAPED BUFFER: A landscaped area that is at least fifty percent (50%) sight
obscuring and serves to physically and/or visually separate land uses having
incompatible facilities, activities or differing intensities of use.
LANDSCAPED DEVELOPED AREA: The area encumbered by building footprints, parking
lots, driveways and retail sales areas (both interior and exterior).
LANDSCAPING: Vegetation covering at least seventy five percent (75%) of the
ground area with a combination of planted material such as: living trees,
shrubs, hedges, vines, ground cover and flowers suitable for the climate,
exposure and site condition. In addition, the combination or design may include
earth sculpture, cobble, bark, mulch, edgers, flower tubs, rock and structural
features such as foundations, pools, artwork, screens, walls, fences or
benches, but such objects alone shall not meet the requirements of this
provision. The selected combination of objects and plants for landscaping
purposes shall be arranged in a harmonious manner compatible with the building
and its surroundings.
LAUNDRY, SELF-OPERATED: A building in which domestic type washing machines and/
or dryers are provided on a rental basis for use by individuals doing their own
laundry.
LIGHT: The form of radiant energy acting on the retina of the eye to make sight
possible.
LIGHT ASSEMBLY: The fitting together of already manufactured parts into a
complete or semicomplete unit. This would not limit the casting or forming of
some components on site where the processes would typically not generate noise,
vibration, smoke or odor detectable at the property line for freestanding
buildings, or beyond the walls of the particular business for attached
buildings. Typically all manufactured and premanufactured parts and the final
product would be limited in size, bulk and weight so that it could be handled
by one worker without the aid of machines. Furthermore, all activity usually
occurs indoors.
LIGHT MANUFACTURING: The manufacturing, fabricating or casting of individual
components of a larger unit or a complete unit. All processing must occur
indoors and would not typically generate noise, vibration, smoke, dust or odor
detectable at the property boundary line for freestanding buildings, or beyond
the exterior walls of the particular business for attached buildings.
Furthermore, all new materials and final components should be limited in size,
bulk and weight so that it could be handled by one worker without the aid of
machines.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light falling on the property of another or the public right-
of-way when it is not required to do so.
LIGHTING: Any or all parts of a luminaire that function to produce light.
LIVE/WORK UNIT: A structure or portion of a structure that combines a permitted
or conditional use allowed in the zone with a residential living space for the
owner of the permitted or conditional use or the owner's employee, and that
person's household; and where the resident owner or employee of the business is
responsible for the licensed commercial or manufacturing activity performed.
LIVESTOCK: Horses, bovine animals, sheep, goats, swine, donkeys, mules,
chickens and fowl (excepting the keeping of 5 or less female chickens as pets),
and all wild animals.
LOCAL EMPLOYEES: Persons employed in the Whitefish 59937 zip code area.
LONG TERM AFFORDABILITY: Affordable for a specified period as determined by the
City of Whitefish. Housing meeting this definition is subject to a written
agreement between the developer, the Whitefish housing authority, and the City
to maintain affordability through resale restriction or recapture programs.
Such agreement shall be recorded with the Clerk and Recorder.
LOT: A legally recorded and defined parcel of land, or two (2) or more
contiguous parcels to be used as a unit under the provisions of these
regulations.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area within the confines of the boundary lines
of a lot. Where street easements are located within or bordering a parcel, lot
area computation shall not include that area contained within the easement.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) or more intersecting streets where the
interior angle of intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°).
LOT COVERAGE: The total structural coverage provided on a lot or site inclusive
of all roofed areas or structures capable of supporting a roof divided by the
net area of the lot or site. The first three feet (3') of roof overhang or
projection shall not be included in the lot coverage.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot having but one side abutting a street.
LOT, IRREGULAR (FLAG LOT): An irregularly shaped lot typified by being almost
entirely landlocked and having limited access and/or no direct frontage. Access
to a public or private road is typically by an extended strip of land either
deeded or by easement.
LOT, IRREGULAR (PIE LOT): An irregularly shaped lot which at the front lot line
contains minimal frontage and a substandard lot width, but as depth increases
side lot lines rapidly expand to a legal width.
LOT, KEY: Any lot, one side line of which is contiguous to the rear line of a
corner lot.
LOT LENGTH: The length (or depth) of a lot shall be:
   A.   If the front and rear lines are parallel, the shortest distance between
the lines.
   B.   If the front and rear lines are not parallel, the shortest distance
between the midpoint of the front lot line and the midpoint of the rear lot
line.
   C.   If the lot is triangular, the shortest distance between the front lot
line and a line parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet (10')
long, lying along the rear of the lot but still wholly within the lot.
LOT LINE:
   A.   Lot Front: The front property line of a lot shall be determined as
follows:
      1.   Corner Lot: The front property line of a corner lot shall be the
shorter of the two (2) lines adjacent to the streets as platted, subdivided or
laid out. Where the lines are equal, the front line shall be that line which is
obviously the front by reason of the prevailing custom of the other buildings
on the block. If the front is not evident, then either may be considered the
front of the lot, but not both.
      2.   Interior Lot: The front property line of an interior lot shall be
the line bounding the street frontage.
      3.   Through Lot: The front property line of a through lot shall be that
line which is obviously the front by reason of the prevailing custom of the
other buildings in the block. Where the front property line is not obviously
evident, the zoning administrator shall determine the front property line. A
lot over two hundred feet (200') deep shall be considered, for the purpose of
this definition, as two (2) lots, each with its own frontage.
   B.   Lot Rear: The rear property line of a lot is that lot line opposite to
the front property line. Where the side property lines of a lot meet in a
point, the rear property line shall be assumed to be a line not less than ten
feet (10') long, lying within the lot and parallel to the front property line.
In the event the front property line is a curved line the rear property line
shall be assumed to be a line not less than ten feet (10') long, lying within
the lot and parallel to a line tangent to the front property line at its
midpoint.
   C.   Lot Side: The side property lines of a lot are those lot lines
connecting the front and rear property lines of a lot.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured at
right angles to its depth along a straight line parallel to the front lot line
at the minimum required building setback line.
LUMEN: The unit used to quantify the amount of light energy produced by a lamp
at the lamp. Lumen output of most lamps is listed on the packaging. For
example, a sixty (60) watt incandescent lamp produces nine hundred fifty (950)
lumens while a fifty five (55) watt low pressure sodium lamp produces eight
thousand (8,000) lumens.
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit, consisting of a lamp or lamps together
with the parts designed to distribute the light, to position and protect the
lamps and to connect the lamps to the power. When used, includes ballasts and
photocells. Commonly referred to as "fixture".
LUMINOUS TUBE: A glass tube filled with a gas or gas mixture (including neon,
argon, mercury or other gases), usually of small diameter (10 to 15
millimeters), caused to emit light by the passage of an electric current, and
commonly bent into various forms for use as decoration or signs. A "neon" tube.
Does not include common fluorescent tubes.
LUX: One lumen per square meter. Unit of illuminance. It is the luminous flux
per unit area in the metric system. One lux equals approximately 0.93 foot-
candle.
MAINTENANCE: The replacing or repair of a part or parts of a building, which
have been made unusable by ordinary wear or tear or by the weather.
MALL: A pedestrianway or passage within or between closed buildings. Only areas
within at least fifty feet (50') of an open end mall shall be considered as
being within the mall.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A dwelling manufactured under the Department of Housing and
Urban Development's (HUD) National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act, built offsite and delivered to a site. A manufactured home does
not include recreational vehicles.
MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT: Any lot, tract or parcel of land used or offered
for use in whole or in part, with or without charge, for the parking of
occupied manufactured homes.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: An area designed for and occupied by two (2) or more
manufactured homes, tiny homes, or recreational vehicles, for lease or rent to
the general public, and which may be utilized for living purposes either
permanent or seasonal.
MANUFACTURED HOME STAND (PAD): That part of an individual lot which has been
reserved for the placement of a manufactured home.
MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision designed and intended for
residential use of manufactured homes or tiny homes, where the lot is sold or
rented to the occupant, and where the manufactured or tiny home is placed upon
a permanent foundation and connected to utilities.
MANUFACTURING, ARTISAN: Production of goods by the use of hand tools or small
scale, light mechanical equipment occurring solely within an enclosed building
where such production requires screened outdoor operations or storage, and
where the production, operations, and storage of materials related to
production occupy no more than three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet
of gross floor area. Typical uses have negligible negative impact on
surrounding properties and include woodworking and cabinet shops, ceramic
studios, jewelry manufacturing and similar types of arts and crafts, or food
processing. Does not include microbreweries or microdistilleries or other
alcohol related businesses.
MARIJUANA: Marijuana means all plant material from the genus Cannabis
containing tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or seeds of the genus capable of
germination. The term does not include hemp, including any part of that plant,
including the seeds and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers,
acids, salts, and salts of isomers, whether growing or not, with a delta 9
tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of not more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis,
or commodities or products manufactured with hemp, or any other ingredient
combined with marijuana to prepare topical or oral administrations, food,
drink, or other products.
MARIJUANA CULTIVATION: Any activity involving the planting, growing, cloning,
harvesting, drying, curing, grading, or trimming of marijuana, either inside a
covered structure or outside.
MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: The use of any property or structure to sell, distribute,
transmit, dispense, deliver or otherwise provide marijuana or marijuana
products in any manner to a consumer in accordance with State Statutes and
administrative regulations, visible to the public as a commercial or
professional office storefront. This includes both medical and adult-use
recreational marijuana.
MARIJUANA FACILITY: Any legal commercial premises licensed by the State that
dispenses marijuana and marijuana products, manufactures marijuana products,
tests marijuana or marijuana products, or cultivates marijuana.
MARIJUANA MANUFACTURING: The production, preparation, or compounding of
cannabis or cannabis products either directly or indirectly or by extraction
methods, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or a combination
thereof, at a fixed location that packages or repackages cannabis products or
labels or relabels its container.
MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Marijuana that has undergone a process whereby the raw
plant material has been transformed into a concentrate or consumable product,
including, but not limited to, concentrated marijuana or an edible or topical
product containing marijuana or concentrated marijuana and other ingredients.
MARIJUANA TESTING OR RESEARCH LABORATORY: A laboratory, facility, or entity in
the City that offers or performs tests or research of marijuana or marijuana
products and meets the licensing requirements found in State Law.
MARINA: Waterfront facilities for recreational boating and other water related
activities. In addition to multiple boat slips rented or leased, there may be
present limited sales of accessories and boating needs, such as gasoline, waste
disposal facilities, etc.
MARKET PRICE: The same as fair market value, that is, the price a willing
purchaser would pay a willing seller, assuming both parties are well informed
and well advised, and neither is under a particular compulsion to buy or sell.
MARKET RATE UNIT: A dwelling unit in a development sold or rented for market
price.
MARQUEE: A permanent rooflike structure or canopy of rigid materials supported
by and extending from the facade of a building.
MASTER PLAN: See definition of growth policy.
MEAN ANNUAL HIGH WATER ELEVATION: As defined in section
13-1-5 of this Code.
MEDIAN INCOME, AREA (AMI): Fifty percent (50%) of the incomes are above and
fifty percent (50%) are below this number. The figure varies from year to year
and varies by family size. It is updated annually by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development.
MEETING ROOM: A walled or partitioned portion of space within a structure used
for assembly.
MICROBREWERY: A facility for the production and packaging of ten thousand
(10,000) barrels a year or less of malt beverages of alcoholic content for on
or off premises distribution, retail or wholesale in conformance with Montana
State law. The facilities typically include a tasting room and may include
accessory food preparation and sales, as well as sales of promotional
merchandise such as growlers, T-shirts, and hats.
MICRODISTILLERY: A facility for the limited production of distilled spirits,
making twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per year or less, for on or off
premises distribution, retail, or wholesale in conformance with Montana State
law. The facilities typically include a tasting room and may include accessory
food preparation and sales, as well as sales of promotional merchandise such as
T-shirts and hats.
MILITARY SURPLUS STORE: A retail sales establishment that offers for sale new
or used military surplus items and may also include sporting goods and outdoor
recreation clothing and gear.
MINISTORAGE: Storage facilities intended primarily for local usage and not to
exceed three hundred (300) square feet per unit.
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT: A development consisting of residential and non-
residential uses in which the nonresidential uses are less than 50% of the
total square footage of the development and are limited to the first floor of
buildings that are two or more stories.
MIXED USE ENVIRONMENT: Neighborhoods where different types of land uses such as
residential, office, or institutional are in close proximity.
MOTEL: See definition of hotel.
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE: See definition of dwelling, multi-family.
MULTIPLE BUSINESS/SHOPPING CENTER COMPLEX: Two (2) or more businesses which
contain some or all of the following features, and which give the appearance
that the property or properties are a single commercial complex:
   A.   Single ownership of the land and/or buildings.
   B.   Single management of the property.
   C.   Unified marketing or advertising plan.
   D.   Commonly shared parking lot in front of the complex.
   E.   Individual business located inside a common structure or common walls.
   F.   Limited frontage on a public street or right- of-way, and a private
drive or court serving the majority of users.
   G.   Coordinated signage.
NEIGHBORHOOD: Less than Citywide in scale. Typically this would be an area of
one-half (1/2) mile, but not more than one mile in radius which has a set of
unifying characteristics such as housing style or quality, similar income
strata, economic livelihood, topographic features, small lakes or water
features, local recreational facilities or convenience shopping. Residents
would normally be within walking distances of basic convenience services.
Factors such as a railroad and highway rights-of-way, major streets, rivers,
large lakes and severe topographic constraints will form boundaries and serve
to separate neighborhoods.
NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICE: Those public or semipublic facilities and commercial
establishments whose main purpose and use is for the residents of a
neighborhood.
NET AREA: The area of a lot or parcel excluding all dedicated streets or
alleys, and roadway or alley easements.
NONCONFORMING USE: A lawful use of a building, other structure or land, which
predated the adoption of the zoning use regulations now in effect, and which
would not be a use authorized in the district designation currently applied to
that site.
NURSERY SCHOOL: See definition of daycare.
NURSING HOME: A healthcare institution other than a hospital or personal care
home which is licensed by the State of Montana as a skilled nursing facility
for two (2) or more unrelated persons.
OPEN SPACE: Undeveloped space performing a necessary or desirable function in
relation to the adjoining residential use. Such a space may include, among
other similar areas, rivers, lakes, public parks and grounds around public
buildings.
OUTDOOR RECREATION, LOW IMPACT: An establishment used for the provision of
recreational activities that specialize in the use of outdoor and natural
resources. These uses are generally seasonal in nature and may include
facilities such as dude ranches, cabin resorts, and rafting/hiking/hunting
outfitters and guides. Such uses shall not include water slides, mazes, putt-
putt courses, motorized racetracks, or other high traffic generating uses.
PARAPET: The extension of a false front or wall above a roofline.
PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL: A lot upon which cars, boats or recreational vehicles
are parked or stored subject to remuneration.
PARKING LOT, PRIVATE: A lot upon which cars, boats or recreational vehicles are
parked without charge and in conformance with off street parking requirements.
PARKING SPACE: A space within or without a building, exclusive of driveways,
meeting the minimal requirements of this title, and used to temporarily park a
motor vehicle, and having access to a public street or alley.
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT: The designated department for the city of
Whitefish under whose jurisdiction public trees fall.
PASTURE: An area confined within a fence or other physical barrier which is
used for grazing or roaming of livestock.
PERFORMING ART CENTER: A nonprofit or public facility that holds performing
arts events in front of an audience that include, among others, dance, music,
opera, theater, musical theater or the spoken word and are performed by actors,
comedians, dancers, musicians or singers.
PERMANENT: Having attachment to the ground through the use of concrete footing
and foundations in conformity with existing building codes.
PERMANENT FOUNDATION: A continuous perimeter foundation of masonry or pressure
treated wood constructed in accordance with the building codes of the state of
Montana.
PERMITTED USE: A use specifically permitted or analogous to those specifically
permitted in
chapter 2 of this title.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or company of
any kind.
PERSONAL CARE FACILITY: A residential health facility licensed by the state of
Montana which provides nonskilled personal care services including meals,
bathing and mobility assistance on a twenty four (24) hour basis.
PERSONAL SERVICES: A use that provides a service to an individual customer
designed to accommodate a specialized need, provide a convenience, or cater to
a particular lifestyle. Such services shall be those types that require
mechanical skill or manual dexterity, as differentiated from mental disciplines
generally requiring licensing or certification such as those listed under
professional services (see definition of Professional Services). Examples of
personal services would include, but are not limited to: delivery and pick up,
catering, event planning, recreational guiding and outfitting, personal
training, tattoo, and personal spa and grooming services such as manicure,
facial, hairstylists, and makeup consulting. Personal services should not
involve retail sales except on an incidental basis such as the selling of hair
products at a salon.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A tract of land developed or proposed to be
developed as an integrated unit. A PUD may be a planned residential
development, a mix of residential uses and commercial uses, or it may consist
of strictly commercial or industrial uses. This option is limited to the
allowable density of the underlying use district and the predominant uses
within the PUD must be that of the underlying zone 4 .
PLANNING OFFICE: The office designated by the city to provide planning services
to the city.
PLANNING STAFF: The planning staff, employee(s) or official(s) designated by
the city to serve as its official city planner(s).
PLAYING FIELDS: An area designed for active recreation, whether publicly or
privately owned, including, but not limited to, baseball diamonds, soccer and
football fields, golf courses, tennis courts, and swimming pools.
PRINCIPAL USE: The primary or predominant use to which the property is or may
be devoted, and to which all other uses on the premises are accessory.
PRIVATE USE: One which is restricted to the occupants of a lot or building,
together with their guests, where compensation for the use is not received and
where no business or commercial activity is associated with the use or
building.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICES: A room or group of rooms used for the provision of
professional services.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Conduct of a service business which is commonly
identified as a profession and which may be licensed by the state. Such
services include engineers, architects, planners, surveyors, designers,
lawyers, accountants, real estate brokers, insurance agents, dentists, physical
therapists, massage therapists, chiropractors, or physicians. Additionally,
accounting, journalism, research, editing, administration or analysis; the
conduct of a business by salespersons, sales representatives or manufacturer's
representatives, or the conduct of business by professionals is included.
Professional services do not include veterinarians, showrooms, manufacturing,
repair, testing, retail sales, the storage, sale or delivery of goods located
on the premises, or other occupations requiring physical skill such as those
found under personal services (see definition of Personal Services).
PROFESSIONAL USE: The rendering of services of a professional nature by:
   A.   Architects, engineers and surveyors.
   B.   Doctors of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry and optometry.
   C.   Attorneys.
   D.   Accountants.
   E.   Consultants and recognized practitioners.
   F.   Chiropractors, chiropodists and naturopaths.
   G.   Dispensing opticians.
PROHIBITED USE: A use which is not specifically or conditionally permitted, or
which is not analogous to those specifically or conditionally permitted in
chapter 2 of this title.
PROJECTION: Any element or embellishment attached to a structure for
environmental protection or architectural enhancement which does not support
any portion of the structure.
PROPERTY LINE: The outer edge of a street or highway right of way.
PROPERTY OWNER: The person owning such property as recorded at the clerk and
recorder's office of Flathead County, state of Montana.
PUBLIC PLACES: Shall include all other grounds owned by the city of Whitefish.
PUBLIC TREES: All ornamental and native trees growing on any street or any
public areas.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A public service corporation performing some public service and
subject to special governmental regulations, or a governmental agency
performing similar public services, the services by either of which are paid
for directly by the recipients thereof. The services shall include, but are not
limited to, water supply, electric power, telephone, TV cable, natural gas and
transportation for persons and freight.
RECREATION SPACE: Open space for both passive and active recreation. Passive
recreation facilities include outdoor sitting areas in the form of sundecks,
balconies or roof gardens, shaded areas along walkways or portions of walkways
overlooking open areas. Active recreation areas include pedestrianways located
and landscaped to provide for strolling activities, tennis courts, swimming and
boating areas, shuffleboard courts, bridle paths, play lots, playgrounds and
play fields.
RECREATIONAL AREA, COMMERCIAL: An area operated for profit and devoted to
facilities and equipment for recreational purposes, including swimming pools,
tennis courts, playgrounds and other similar uses whether the use of the area
is limited to private membership or whether open to the public upon the payment
of a fee or service charge.
RECREATIONAL AREA, PRIVATE: A structure built for the exclusive use of a
homeowners' association within a defined neighborhood and not intended for use
by the general public.
RECREATIONAL AREA, SEMIPRIVATE: In addition to the private recreational area
uses and ownership practices described herein, nonprofit clubs and
organizations which cater to a specific membership and whose usage is generally
not open to the general public for a fee or otherwise are permitted.
RECREATIONAL GUIDES AND OUTFITTERS: Business offering state licensed guides or
outfitters as well as equipment and supplies for sale and/or rent for
specialized outdoor activities such as fishing or hunting. Retail sales of
supplies and equipment related to the primary activity are allowed up to thirty
percent (30%) of the gross floor area.
RECREATIONAL USES: Those uses normally associated with recreational activities.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as a temporary
living quarters for recreation, camping or travel use, which either has its own
motive power or it is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any lot, tract or parcel of land used or offered for
use, in whole or in part, with or without charge, for the parking of occupied
recreational vehicles, manufactured homes, tiny homes, tents or similar devices
used for temporary living quarters for recreational camping or travel purposes.
RESEARCH FACILITIES: A laboratory facility that is primarily used for
scientific research. This use can include the design, development, and testing
of biological, chemical, electrical, magnetic, mechanical, and/or optical
components in advance of product manufacturing. This use does not involve the
fabrication, mass manufacture, or processing of the products.
RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES: The intent to use and/or the use of a room or typically
unfurnished dwelling unit for the living, sleeping and housekeeping activities
of persons on a long term basis of intended tenure, typically on a six (6) to
twelve (12) month or longer lease, but also on a month to month basis with the
intent to continue renting long term to the same individual or family for
housing. Short term rentals are not considered residential purposes.
RESIDENTIAL, SHORT-TERM RENTAL: The rental of an entire furnished privately
owned house, townhouse unit, condominium unit, apartment or other residence, or
any space within a dwelling unit rented independently, for stays of less than
thirty (30) days to transient guests or tourists. Advertising for available
stays of thirty (30) days or less on sites that predominantly cater to
travelers looking for short term rentals presumes the property is being used as
a short term rental. Short term rentals as defined herein do not include the
following: bed and breakfasts, hostels, and motel or hotel establishments
unless individual rooms or units with a kitchen or kitchenette are
condominiumized, and under different ownership than the hotel or motel. Short
term rentals shall not provide food or beverages for sale on premises or with
the rental of the dwelling. Renting a portion of the home for a short-term
rental does not qualify as a home occupation.
RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: A division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two
(2) or more lots, tracts or parcels for residential purposes.
RESORT: Any lot, tract or parcel of land whose main use is as a place of
entertainment or recreation which people frequent.
RETAINING WALL: A wall designed to resist the lateral displacement of soil or
other material 5 .
RETIREMENT HOME/CONGREGATE HOUSING: A place of residence for several families
or individuals in apartment like quarters, rented, cooperative or condominium,
which may feature services to retired persons such as limited nursing
facilities, minimum maintenance, living accommodations and recreation programs
and facilities.
RIDING ACADEMY: Any establishment where horses are kept for riding, driving or
stabling for compensation, or as an accessory use in the operation of a club,
association, ranch or similar establishment.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of boarding house.
SANATORIUM: An institution for the treatment and care of the chronically ill,
or for patients requiring long term therapy, rest and recuperation.
SCREENING: A method of shielding or obscuring one abutting or nearby structure
or use from another by opaque fencing, walls, berms, densely planted
vegetation, or the like. A device or materials used to conceal one element of a
development from other elements, or from adjacent or contiguous development.
Screening may include one or a combination of the following materials of
sufficient mass to be opaque or which shall become opaque after twelve (12)
months and which shall be maintained in an opaque condition: walls, berms or
plantings, or a combination of fences, berms or plantings.
SEMIPRIVATE FACILITY: Any facility which a class or a group of the public is
permitted to attend or use, subject to the regulations of a club or other
organization owning or regulating the facility.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Sexually oriented business means an adult arcade,
adult bookstore or adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual
encounter center. Related definitions are as follows:
   Adult Arcade: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronic, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Bookstore Or Adult Video Store: A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental, for any form
of consideration, any one or more of the following:
   A.   Publications: Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which depict or describe "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
   B.   Instruments Or Devices: Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are
designed for use in connection with "specified sexual activities". A commercial
establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not involve
the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and still be categorized as
an adult bookstore or adult video store. Other business purposes will not serve
to exempt a commercial establishment from being categorized as an adult
bookstore or adult video store as long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
   Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity; or
   B.   Line performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual    activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Adult Motel: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified anatomical areas"
and has a sign visible from the public right of way which advertises the
availability of this adult type of photographic reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of less than ten (10)
hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sublet the room for a
period of less than ten (10) hours.
   Adult Motion Picture Theater: A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
   Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities".
   Escort: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease (i.e., remove
clothing or other articles of attire) for another person.
   Escort Agency: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   Establishment: Any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   Nude Model Studio: Any place where a person, who appears in a state of
nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas", is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by
another person or persons who pay money or any form of consideration. This
definition shall not extend to public or private art classes or professional
art studios.
   Nudity Or State Of Nudity: The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
male genitals, female genitals or female breast.
   Seminude: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions
of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   Sexual Encounter Center: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
   A.   Physical contact in any form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   B.   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminude.
   Specified Anatomical Areas: The male genitals in a state of sexual arousal
and/or the vulva or more intimate parts of the female genitals.
   Specified Sexual Activities: Includes any one of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through C of this definition.
SHIELDED, FULLY: The luminaire incorporates a solid barrier (the shield), which
permits no light to escape through the barrier (see figure 4 in subsection
11-3-25H of this title).
SHIELDED, PARTIALLY: The luminaire incorporates a translucent barrier, the
"partial shield" around the lamp that allows some light to pass through the
barrier while concealing the lamp from the viewer (see figure 3 in subsection
11-3-25H of this title).
SHRUB: A woody plant of relatively low height, as distinguished from a tree by
having several stems rather than a single trunk.
SIGN: Any device, structure, fixture or placard using graphics, symbols,
pictures, emblems, lighting schemes and/or written copy, or any other medium
for visual communication, including its supporting structure and source of
light, which is intended to be used to attract attention to a location or
subject matter, for advertising, instruction or information purposes, and is
viewable from a public right of way. This definition includes any light,
lighted panel or lighting scheme that attracts attention to a location or
subject matter, whether or not it contains any text, unless such lighting is
intended solely for, and reasonably necessary for, security or safety lighting.
SIGN, A-FRAME OR SANDWICH: A freestanding or portable sign which supports
itself because of its A-frame configuration.
SIGN, ABANDONED: A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide
business, lessor, service, owner, product or activity and/or for which no legal
owner can be found.
SIGN, ALLOWABLE SIGNAGE: The total permitted sign area of a site.
SIGN, ANIMATED: Any sign which uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or to create a special effect or scene.
SIGN, AREA CALCULATION 1 : Sign area for the purpose of measuring total square
footage shall be measured as a total of all sign faces including multifaced
signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1990.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1992.gif]
Sculptural Signs: Spherical, free-form, sculptural or other nonplanar sign
areas are seventy five percent (75%) of the sum of the areas using only the
four (4) vertical sides of the smallest four-sided polyhedron that will
encompass the sign structure. Signs with greater than four (4) faces are
prohibited.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1994.gif]
SIGN, BANNER: Any cloth, bunting, plastic, vinyl, paper, or similar non-rigid
material attached to any structure, rope, wire, or framing which is anchored on
two (2) or more edges or at all four (4) corners. Banners are temporary in
nature and do not include flags. Feather style banners on a single post are not
permitted.
SIGN, BILLBOARD: See definition of off-premises sign.
SIGN, BUILDING FRONTAGE: The linear length of a building parallel to or closely
facing a developed right-of-way of at least fifty feet (50') in width.
SIGN, CABINET OR MODULE: A single element or component of a sign comprising an
identifiable unit of advertising which does not require other units to present
a meaningful message.
SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY (AUTOMATIC): A sign on which the copy changes
automatically on a bank of lights or through mechanical means, e.g., electrical
or electronic time and temperature units.
SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY (MANUAL): A sign on which copy (individual letters,
panels or figures) are changed manually in the field, e.g., reader boards with
changeable letters, or replacement panels in an existing sign frame.
SIGN, CLEARANCE OF: The smallest vertical distance between the grade of the
adjacent street or street curb and the lowest point of any sign, including
framework and embellishments extending over that grade.
SIGN, COMMERCIAL: Any sign or banner that contains text and/or graphics
designed proposing or promoting a commercial transaction or directing attention
to a business, commodity, or service.
SIGN, EVENT PROMOTION: A temporary sign panel located at a facility hosting
concerts, plays or other special events designed to be affixed to wood, foam
core or other rigid backing material or stretched within a structural frame as
approved by the Planning Department with an overall sign plan.
SIGN, FACE OF: The area of a sign on which the copy is placed.
SIGN, FESTOONS: A string of ribbons, tinsel, small flags or pinwheels.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign supported upon the ground by poles or braces and not
attached to any building.
SIGN, FRONTAGE PROPERTY: The length of the property line corresponding to the
front of the building on a lot that abuts a public right-of-way. For corner
lots, the frontage shall be the shorter of the two (2) lines adjacent to the
streets as platted, subdivided or laid out. Where the lines are equal, the
front line shall be that line which is obviously the front by reason of the
prevailing custom of the other buildings on the block. If the front is not
evident, then either may be considered the front of the lot, but not both.
SIGN, GROUND: A type of freestanding sign which is erected on the ground and
which contains no free air space between the ground and the top of the sign.
SIGN, GROUP: A sign structure serving two (2) or more enterprises sharing the
same facilities.
SIGN, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
sign, excluding decorative embellishment, to the surface grade beneath the
sign.
SIGN, HUMAN: A sign that is held or worn by a person, including but not limited
to a human directional, sign walkers/wavers/twirlers, and "sandwich persons".
Human sign does not include text or images displayed on a traditional article
of clothing such as a jacket, shirt, pants, or hat.
SIGN, ILLEGAL: A sign which does not meet the requirements of this Code and
which has not received legal nonconforming status.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: A sign with an artificial light source incorporated
externally for the purpose of illuminating the sign.
SIGN, INCIDENTAL: A small incidental sign, emblem or decal. Such signs include
traffic or directional signs, commemorative plaques, addresses, building names,
property owner, or signs that inform the public of goods, facilities or
services available on the premises, e.g., a credit card sign or a sign
indicating hours of business, or that the business is "open" or "closed", or
whether lodging has rooms available.
SIGN MAINTENANCE: For the purpose of this Code: The cleaning, painting, repair,
or replacement of defective parts of a sign in a manner that does not alter the
basic copy, design or structure of the sign.
SIGN, NONCONFORMING:
   A.   A sign which was erected legally, but which does not comply with
subsequently enacted sign restrictions and regulations.
   B.   A sign which does not conform to the Sign Code requirements, but for
which a variance or conditional use permit has been issued.
SIGN, OFF PREMISES: A sign structure advertising an establishment, merchandise,
service or entertainment, which is not sold, produced, manufactured or
furnished at the property on which the sign is located. This definition does
not include campaign, election, political or communitywide/special event signs.
SIGN, OWNER: A person recorded as owner on official records. For the purposes
of this Code: The owner of property on which a sign is located is presumed to
be the owner of the sign unless facts to the contrary are officially recorded
or otherwise brought to the attention of the Zoning Administrator, e.g., a sign
leased from a sign company.
SIGN, PORTABLE: Any sign designed to be moved easily and not permanently
affixed to the ground or to a structure or building. This includes portable
reader board signs.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign, other than a flat wall sign, which is attached to and
projects from a building wall or other structure not specifically designed to
support the sign.
SIGN, READER BOARD: A sign which uses interchangeable letters to vary the sign
message.
SIGN, RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION: A sign located at the entrance to
a residential subdivision.
SIGN, ROOF: Any sign erected over or on the roof of a building.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: A temporary sign constructed of vinyl, plastic, wood or metal
and designed or intended to be displayed for a short, limited period of time.
Temporary signs are not intended to continually advertise goods and/or services
on the property.
SIGN, TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL EVENT: A sign or attractant of a non- permanent
nature for commercial use, used only temporarily and not permanently mounted.
SIGN, THROUGH LOT: A parcel of property with frontage on two (2) parallel
public streets located at opposite sides of said parcel. The front property
line of a through lot shall be that which is obviously the front by reason of
the prevailing custom of the other buildings on the block. Where the front
property line is not obvious the property owner shall determine the front of
the property.
SIGN, WALL: A sign attached parallel to and extending not more than twelve
inches (12") from the wall of a building, or which is painted directly on a
wall. No wall sign shall extend above the wall on which it is painted. This
definition includes painted, individual letter and cabinet signs on a mansard
roof.
SIGN, WALL GRAPHICS: Any artistic design or portrayal painted on an exterior
wall, fence, awning, window or other structure which is visible from any public
right-of-way and which has as its purpose artistic effect and not the
identification of the premises or the advertisement, or promotion of the
interests of any private or public firm, person or organization.
SIGN, WINDOW: A sign installed inside a window and intended to be viewed from
the outside.
SITE PLAN: A schematic diagram of a lot, tract or parcel of land showing the
specific location of all existing and proposed features, such as buildings,
other structures, driveways, parking, landscaped areas, easements, utilities,
drainage, etc.
SOLID PLANTING: A planting of evergreen trees and shrubs which will prevent a
thorough and unobscured penetration of sight and light.
SPECIAL EVENT: An event occurring infrequently and often on an unplanned basis,
such as an annual or semiannual sale or celebration, or a "grand opening" or
"quitting business" sale.
SPECIAL EVENT, COMMUNITY WIDE: An event which receives approval through the
city manager or city council and/or is sponsored by a group or organization
including street fairs, parades, community celebrations, sporting events and
art festivals. These events may include the operation of commercial vendors for
food or retail goods.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building in which horses and other
animals owned by the occupant of the premises are kept, and in which no animals
are kept for hire, remuneration or sale.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A stable other than a private stable.
STORAGE, COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL VEHICLES: The storage of more than two (2)
recreational vehicles, including boats, not registered to the property owner
and where the property owner receives remuneration for storage of such
vehicles.
STORAGE, OPEN: The storage of items not located within a sight obscuring
enclosure, as visible from the public right of way, or within a building.
STOREFRONT BUSINESS: Any commercial establishment, structure, or building that
is openly accessible by members of the general public.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. A basement, the
ceiling of which is less than four and one-half feet (41/2') above the natural
grade, shall not be considered a story. A mezzanine floor shall be considered a
story if it is more than one-third (1/3) of the area of the floor next below
it.
STREET: The entire width of every public way or right of way when any part
thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A major street with moderate to fast speeds and high volume,
designed to provide access to the regional transportation system and move
traffic through or around the city, or from one general area of the city to
another. Arterials may have limited access and are located approximately one
mile apart.
STREET, COLLECTOR: Intermediate streets which collect local traffic from
neighborhoods and move it to an adjacent neighborhood or transfer the traffic
to the arterial system. Collectors are located approximately one-fourth (1/4)
to one-half (1/2) mile apart.
STREET, LOCAL: Minor streets intended to serve individual sites, buildings or
lots. Local streets feed into collectors or provide destination access off of
collectors.
STREET, PRIVATE ACCESSWAY: A private right of way for vehicles which provides a
principal means of access to two (2) or more lots, is subject to an easement
for ingress and egress, and runs with the land to the benefit of all lots
having frontage thereon.
STREET, PUBLIC: A dedicated public right of way for vehicles which affords a
principal means of access to abutting properties.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind or any piece of work artificially built or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner and attached to the ground.
SUBDIVISION: Improved or unimproved land or lands divided for the purpose of
financing, sale or lease, whether immediate or future, into two (2) or more
lots, tracts or parcels of land, or if a new street is involved, any property
which is divided into two (2) or more lots, tracts, or parcels of land or any
property, the boundaries of which have been fixed by a recorded plat, which is
divided into more than two (2) parts. "Subdivision" also includes any
condominium, cooperative, community apartment, townhouse or similar project
containing two (2) or more parcels, in which an undivided interest in the land
is coupled with the right of exclusive occupancy of any unit located thereon,
but plats of the projects need not show the buildings or the manner in which
the buildings or airspace above the property shown on the plat are to be
divided.
SUBLOT: A portion of a platted lot designated for separate ownership from other
portions of the lot and used for townhouse or other construction that has
separate ownership with a common party wall location identified on the plat.
SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE: A pool established or maintained on any premises by an
individual for his own or his family's use, or for guests of his household.
SWIMMING POOL, PUBLIC: A swimming pool admission to which may be gained by the
general public with or without payment of a fee.
SWIMMING POOL, SEMIPUBLIC: A swimming pool on the premises of, or part of a
hotel, motel, manufactured home park, apartment house, private club,
association or other similar establishment where admission to the use of the
pool is included in the fee or consideration paid or given for the general use
of the premises.
TEMPORARY: Unless otherwise stipulated herein, for the purposes of these
regulations, temporary shall mean a period of less than ninety (90) days when
in reference to a time frame, or not having or requiring permanent attachment
to the ground, or involving structures which have not required permanent
attachment to the ground. Temporary uses are subject to the provisions of
section
11-3-21 of this title.
TIMBER HARVESTING: The felling, loading, and transporting of timber products
(pulpwood, etc.). The term "timber harvesting" may include both clear cutting
and selective cutting of timber.
TIME SHARING: A method of ownership whereby occupancy rights in a dwelling unit
are sold for a specific number of years and entitle a person(s) to sequential
usage of the unit for a specified interval on a recurring basis.
TOWNHOUSE: A single-family dwelling unit, located on its own lot with its own
individual services, constructed in a group of two or more attached units in
which each unit extends from foundation to roof with a two-hour fire rated
party wall between units with no openings. A townhouse does not share common
floors/ceilings with other dwelling units.
TRAVEL TRAILER: See definition of Recreational Vehicle.
TREE: Any self-supporting woody perennial plant, usually having a main stem or
trunk and many branches, and at maturity, normally attaining a trunk diameter
greater than three inches (3") at any point and a height over ten feet (10').
TREE ADVISORY COMMITTEE: An ad hoc committee established by
title 2, chapter 7 of this code to oversee the implementation of a street tree
plan.
TREE DENSITY STANDARD (TDS): The minimum number of tree density units per acre
which must be achieved on a property.
TREE DENSITY UNIT (TDU): A credit assigned to a tree, based on the diameter of
the tree, in accordance with tables contained in this title.
TREE PRESERVATION PLAN: A plan required through the subdivision regulations or
the zoning regulations that inventories the location, species, health and size
of existing trees. Subject to approval by the parks and recreation director,
the preservation plan would also indicate which trees are to be removed and
which are to be preserved.
TREE PROTECTION AREA (TPA): Any portion of a site wherein are located existing
trees which are proposed to be preserved in order to comply with the
requirements of this title. The tree protection area shall include no less than
the total area beneath the tree canopy as defined by the drip line of the tree
or group of trees collectively.
TREE REPLACEMENT PLAN: A plan required through the subdivision regulations or
the zoning regulations that inventories the location, species, and size of
proposed trees. This plan is subject to approval by the parks and recreation
director.
TREE THINNING: Selective cutting or thinning of trees only for the clear
purpose of good forestry management in order to protect said forest from
diseases or infestation and in no way shall be construed as clear cutting.
UNDERLYING ZONE: The established zoning use district for an area for which a
planned unit development or the equivalent is proposed.
UNDERSTORY TREE: A tree that, under normal forest conditions, grows to maturity
beneath overstory trees and will generally reach a mature height of at least
ten feet (10') but less than forty feet (40').
USE: The specific purpose for which a building or lot is arranged, intended,
designed, occupied or maintained.
UTILITY HARDWARE: Devices such as poles, cross arms, transformers and vaults,
gas pressure regulating assemblies and similar devices.
VENDOR: A commercial use operated within a temporary or semipermanent
structure, trailer, truck or cart, subject to the provisions of section
11-3-23 of this title.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: An institution for the diagnosis, treatment and care of
disease and injury in all types of animals, including small teals and
livestock, by a licensed doctor of veterinary medicine where overnight and
extended care is typical, as are routine office calls.
VETERINARY OFFICE, SMALL ANIMAL: An office maintained by a licensed doctor of
veterinary medicine for the treatment and care of small animals, namely the
usual household pets and other animals of a similar size and nature, but not
livestock. Overnight care or boarding would be the rare exception.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, AREA: A critical stormwater conveyance, stream, lake,
wetland, a slope with potential for erosion hazard or instability or the
Whitefish River, as regulated by section
11-3-29 of this title or other ordinance or policies adopted by the city of
Whitefish.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, BUFFER: An area that is contiguous to and protects a
water quality protection area and which is required for the continued
functioning and/or structural stability of that water quality protection area.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, CRITICAL STORMWATER CONVEYANCE: A watercourse that
flows only in response to precipitation in the immediate watershed or in
response to the melting of snow or ice (i.e., the watercourse is never
exclusively fed by groundwater and therefore is always above the local water
table), downstream of the point where it drains an area of twenty five (25)
acres. This definition does not include irrigation ditches, canals, stormwater
runoff devices, or other entirely artificial watercourses, except where they
exist in a natural watercourse that has been altered by humans. Critical
stormwater conveyances are mapped by the city.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: That mark where the
presence and action of stream flows are so common that the soil and vegetation
have a character distinct from that of the abutting upland. Often referred to
as "bank full width". The OHWM shall also include those wetlands which are in
proximity to and either influence or are influenced by the stream and/or river.
This influence includes, but is not limited to, one or more of the following:
periodic inundation, location within a floodplain, or hydraulic continuity.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, PERMEABLE: Porous material capable of being permeated
by stormwater, rain and snow.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL: A person with experience and
training in the pertinent scientific discipline, and who is a qualified
scientific expert with expertise appropriate for the relevant water quality
protection area. To submit the reports identified below, a qualified
professional must have obtained a B.S. or B.A. or equivalent degree as
identified and have five (5) years of progressively more responsible work
experience with the relevant type of water quality protection area:
   A.   Critical stormwater conveyance identification, as described in
subsection
11-3-29E of this title: professional engineer or hydrologist.
   B.   Determination of top of bank for Whitefish River, as described in
subsection
11-3-29C of this title: geologist, hydrogeologist, hydrologist.
   C.   Water quality plan, as described in subsection
11-3-29C of this title: civil or other professional engineer.
   D.   Geotechnical letter, as described in subsection
11-3-29D1 of this title: professional engineer (geotechnical or civil
practice).
   E.   Water quality protection area report for streams, wetlands, or lakes,
as described in section
11-7-10 of this title: biologist, forester, or other scientist with training
and experience in the issues covered by the report. Wetland delineations and
assessments must be performed by a professional with specific training and
experience for that work.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, REPORT: A report describing mitigation or restoration
proposed for streams, lakes, wetlands, or their buffers, as described in
section
11-7-10 of this title.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, RIPARIAN AREA: The area adjacent to a stream, lake,
or wetland that directly influences the aquatic ecosystem by providing shade,
filtration of pollutants and nutrients, fine or large woody material, organic
and inorganic debris, terrestrial insects, and habitat for riparian associated
wildlife.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, SETBACK: An area where new structures are prohibited
and only limited alterations are allowed. The purpose of a setback is to
protect buffers from human disturbance and to protect high value structures
from potential damage. No part of any above grade structure, including
architectural features, eaves, cantilevers, decks, or overhangs of any kind,
may encroach into the setback.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, SLOPE: Ground that forms a natural incline with a
gradient of ten percent (10%) or greater, calculated by dividing the vertical
rise by the horizontal run. A slope is delineated by establishing its toe and
top.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, STREAM, INTERMITTENT: A watercourse with a defined
bed and bank that, within a one hundred foot (100') segment, extends
aboveground a total of fifty feet (50') or more (which need not be continuous),
obtaining its flow from both groundwater discharge and surface runoff. A stream
is intermittent if it is below the seasonal high water table, and therefore
flows continuously, for only part of the year. This definition does not include
irrigation ditches, canals, stormwater runoff devices, or other entirely
artificial watercourses, except where they exist in a natural watercourse that
has been altered by humans.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, STREAM, PERENNIAL: A watercourse with a defined bed
and bank that flows continuously in years of normal precipitation and obtains
its flow from both groundwater discharge and surface runoff. This definition
does not include irrigation ditches, canals, stormwater runoff devices, or
other entirely artificial watercourses, except where they exist in a natural
watercourse that has been altered by humans.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, TOP OF BANK (For Whitefish River): The top of the
intact bluff against which fine grained talus rests, where a generally sharp
and distinct break occurs from a relatively flat slope on the higher elevation
to steep slope leading down toward the edge of the floodplain, taking into
account the possibility of false top of bank due to rotational slumps or other
land movement.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, WETLAND: An area that is inundated or saturated by
surface or ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and
that under normal circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include
swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar areas. Wetlands do not include those
artificial wetlands intentionally created from nonwetland areas, including, but
not limited to, irrigation and drainage ditches, grass lined swales, canals,
detention facilities, wastewater treatment facilities, farm ponds, and
landscape amenities, or those wetlands that were unintentionally created as a
result of the construction of a road, street, or highway. Wetlands shall
include those artificial wetlands intentionally created from nonwetland areas
to mitigate the conversion of wetlands.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION, WETLAND, ISOLATED: A wetland with no connection, by
either surface waters or hydric soils, to a water body or riparian area and
that is not part of a wetland mosaic. A wetland mosaic involves a concentration
of multiple small wetlands, in which each patch of wetland is less than one
acre; on average, patches are less than one hundred feet (100') from each
other; and areas delineated as vegetated wetland are more than fifty percent
(50%) of the total area of the entire mosaic, including uplands and open water.
WHOLESALE: The business of selling goods or merchandise to retailers or jobbers
for resale to the ultimate user.
WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY: Commercial radio and television service antenna,
unlicensed wireless service antenna/tower, common carrier wireless exchange
structure/antenna/towers commonly referred to as cellular communications.
YARD: A space on any lot, unoccupied by a structure and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as otherwise provided in subsection
11-2-3B of this title, and measured as the minimum horizontal distance from a
building structure to the property line opposite the building line in the side
or rear yards, or to the street right-of-way or easement in the front yard.
YARD, REQUIRED: The minimum dimension of a front, side or rear yard as
established by the use regulations for each district. (Ord. A-407, 3-15-1982;
amd. Ord. 96-12, 10-17-1996; Ord. 00-06, 4-3-2000; Ord. 00-13, 11-20-2000; Ord.
01-04, 2-20-2001; Ord. 01-09, 3-19-2001; Ord. 01-14, 8-20-2001; Ord. 02-16, 5-
20-2002; Ord. 03-12, 5-19-2003; Ord. 02-30, 6-16-2003; Ord. 03-15, 6-16-2003;
Ord. 03-19, 7-7-2003; Ord. 04-03, 3-1-2004; Ord. 04-12, 7-19-2004; Ord. 04-22,
11-1-2004; Ord. 05-01, 1-18-2005; Ord. 05-05, 2-7-2005; Ord. 05-25, 11-21-2005;
Ord. 06-16, 7-17-2006; Ord. 06-30, 10-16-2006; Ord. 07-33, 10-15-2007; Ord. 08-
05, 3-17-2008; Ord. 08-07, 4-28-2008; Ord. 08-08, 5-19-2008; Ord. 08-23, 11-17-
2008; Ord. 08-26, 1-5-2009; Ord. 09-05, 4-6-2009; Ord. 09-09, 8-3-2009; Ord.
09-10, 8-17-2009; Ord. 09-22, 11-16-2009; Ord. 11-05, 5-2-2011; Ord. 12-01, 1-
17-2012; Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 12-07, 4-16-2012; Ord. 12-12, 11-5-2012;
Ord. 13-03, 3-18-2013; Ord. 14-21, 1-5-2015; Ord. 16-03, 2-1-2016; Ord. 16-04,
2-16-2016; Ord. 16-06, 3-7-2016; Ord. 16-14, 9-6-2016; Ord. 18-06, 2-20-2018;
Ord. 18-19, 7-2-2018; Ord. 18-25, 9-4-2018; Ord. 18-27, 9-17-2018; Ord. 19-03,
2-4-2019; Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; Ord. 19-14, 7-1-2019; Ord. 19-24, 12-16-2019;
Ord. 21-17, 12-6-2021; Ord. 21-20, 1-3-2022; Ord. 22-04, 3-21-2022; Ord. 22-05,
4-4-2022; Ord. 22-06, 5-16-2022; Ord. 23-03, 4-3-2023; Ord. 23-13, 8-21-2023;
Ord. 23-20, 10-16-2023; Ord. 23-22, 10-16-2023; Ord. 23-28, 11-20-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See diagram in
  chapter 8, appendix E of this title.
1 1. See
  chapter 8, appendix B of this title.
3 1. MCA § 76-2-412.
4 1. See use regulations in section
  11-2-3 of this title.
5 1. See also section
  11-3-11 of this title.
1 1. See subsection
  11-5-5C of this title.
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Authority And Purpose
12-1-3: Jurisdiction And Coordination
12-1-4: Burden Of Proof
12-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations will be known and may be cited as the SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
OF THE CITY OF WHITEFISH, MONTANA; hereinafter referred to as "these
regulations". (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009)
12-1-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Authorization for these regulations is contained in the Montana
subdivision and platting act ("MSPA") 1 .
   B.   The purposes of this chapter and these regulations are to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare by regulating the subdivision of
land; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to lessen congestion in the streets
and highways; to provide for adequate light, air, water supply, sewage
disposal, parks and recreation areas, ingress and egress, and other public
requirements; to require development in harmony with the natural environment;
to promote preservation of open space; to promote approaches that minimize
costs to local citizens and that promote effective and efficient provision of
public services; to protect the rights of property owners; and to require
uniform monumentation of land subdivisions and transferring interests in real
property by reference to a plat or certificate of survey.
These regulations are intended to comply with the MSPA, and are intended to
promote:
      1.   The orderly development of the jurisdictional area.
      2.   The coordination of roads within subdivided land with other roads,
both existing and planned.
      3.   The dedication of land for roadways and for public utility
easements.
      4.   The improvement of roads.
      5.   The provision of proper physical and legal access, including
obtaining necessary easements.
      6.   The provision of adequate open spaces for travel, light, air, and
recreation.
      7.   The provision of adequate transportation, water, drainage, and
sanitary facilities.
      8.   The avoidance or minimizing of congestion.
      9.   The avoidance of unnecessary degradation of the natural environment.
      10.   The preservation of natural topographic features and important
vegetation.
      11.   The avoidance of danger or injury by reason of natural hazard or
the lack of water, drainage, access, transportation, or other public
improvements.
      12.   The avoidance of excessive expenditure of public funds for the
supply of public improvements and services.
      13.   The development of high quality neighborhoods providing housing
options for persons in all income levels.
      14.   The maintenance of high levels of water quality in the lakes,
rivers, streams and wetlands within the jurisdictional area.
      15.   The provision of connectivity between neighborhoods, parks and
services through roads, trails and sidewalks.
      16.   The avoidance of unnecessary or wasteful excavation or filling of
land.
      17.   The manner and form of making and filing of any plat for subdivided
lands.
      18.   The administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approving authorities, including procedures for the review and
approval of all plats of subdivisions covered by these provisions. (Ord. 09-23,
11-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 76, chapter 3.
12-1-3: JURISDICTION AND COORDINATION:
   A.   These regulations govern the subdivision of land within the
jurisdictional area of the city of Whitefish, Montana. The city may coordinate
or enter into land use interlocal agreements with other jurisdictional agencies
to guide decision making. (Ord. 14-22, 1-5-2015)
   B.   These regulations supplement all other regulations, and where they are
inconsistent with other laws, regulations, ordinances, or resolutions, the more
restrictive requirements apply. Other regulations include, but are not limited
to, zoning regulations, floodplain regulations, lakeshore regulations, building
codes, development codes, and fire codes. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009)
12-1-4: BURDEN OF PROOF:
In all proceedings and hearings, and in all application and submittal
materials, the burden of proof shall rest with the applicant, permittee or
appellant, as applicable. (Ord. 16-04, 2-16-2016)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-2-1: Application; Fees
12-2-2: Permission To Enter
12-2-3: Annexation Of Property Proposed For Subdivision
12-2-4: Public Notice
12-2-5: Variances
12-2-6: Restrictive Covenants; Approval, Contents And Enforcement
12-2-7: Construction Timing
12-2-8: Appeals
12-2-9: Amendment Of Subdivision Regulations
12-2-10: Violation And Penalties
12-2-1: APPLICATION; FEES:
   A.   Complete application submittals will be accepted by the planning
department for review and processing.
   B.   In order to cover costs of reviewing plans, advertising, holding public
hearings and other expenses incidental to the review of a subdivision, the
subdivider must pay a nonrefundable fee at the time of application. The fee
schedule will be established by the city council. All application fees for
preliminary and final plat applications will be due at the time of the
subdivision application. If an application is terminated prior to the community
development board public hearing, the planning department may refund a portion
of the application fee as determined by the planning director.
(Ord. 13-06, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
12-2-2: PERMISSION TO ENTER:
The submission of a subdivision application constitutes a grant of permission
by the subdivider for the governing body, its agents and affected agencies to
enter the subject property. The governing body or its designated agent(s) or
affected agencies identified during the preapplication meeting may investigate,
examine, and evaluate the site of the proposed subdivision to verify
information provided by the subdivider and to subsequently monitor compliance
with any conditions if the preliminary plat is approved conditionally. (Ord.
09-23, 11-16-2009)
12-2-3: ANNEXATION OF PROPERTY PROPOSED FOR SUBDIVISION:
If property proposed for subdivision lies outside the city limits and proposes
to utilize municipal water or sewer services, the property must be annexed into
the city limits prior to submittal of the preliminary plat application. A
petition to annex must be filed and annexation proceeding complete before an
applicant files a preliminary plat application (see appendix I attached to the
ordinance codified herein). (Ord. 14-22, 1-5-2015; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-2-4: PUBLIC NOTICE:
   A.   The community development board or city council will hold a public
hearing on all applications when a public hearing is required by these
regulations. The city council may require the community development board to
hold additional public hearing(s) if new information becomes available not
considered at the previous public hearing. Public notice must follow the
procedures under section 12-3-5 of this title for an expedited subdivision,
section 12-3-6 of this title for a major subdivision or section 12-3-7 of this
title for a minor subdivision or section 12-3-8 for an administrative minor
subdivision.
   B.   Once the notice of the first scheduled public hearings before the
community development board and city council has been published, as required by
these regulations, it is presumed interested persons are aware of the pending
application and it will not be necessary to publish, post or mail a notice of
subsequent hearings, if they are announced at a meeting of the community
development board or city council.
   C.   In order to allow sufficient time for reasonable comment and if the
community development board determines its decision would be affected by the
members' fatigue, or should natural events occur which preclude the completion
of the public hearing or deliberations, the board, by majority vote of those
present, may continue the hearing to the next available meeting. This continued
hearing is not a subsequent hearing, nor does it extend the time limits stated
in these regulations without subdivider approval.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
12-2-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   The City Council may grant variances from these regulations when, due
to the characteristics of land proposed for subdivision, strict compliance with
these standards would result in undue hardship and would not be essential to
the public welfare. A variance will not be granted if it would have the effect
of nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations. Any zoning
deviations utilized as incentives received with an approved Housing Mitigation
Plan pursuant to section
11-1A-5 of this Code are not subject to the provisions of this subsection and
are not required to obtain a variance.
   B.   Prior to City Council consideration of any variance, a public hearing
must be held before the Planning Board and City Council in accordance with the
procedures outlined in this chapter. However, these regulations do not require
a public hearing for a minor subdivision requesting a variance to these
standards. Neither a preliminary plat reviewed under the expedited process or a
minor subdivision, waiver of preliminary plat are eligible for a variance
request.
   C.   The City Council will not approve a variance unless it finds the
following criteria can be met or does not apply to the particular situation:
      1.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or general welfare or injurious to other adjoining properties;
      2.   Due to the physical surroundings, shape, or topographical conditions
of the property involved, strict compliance with the regulations will impose an
undue hardship on the owner;
      3.   Undue hardship is not based exclusively on a personal or financial
hardship, or any hardship that is self-imposed;
      4.   The variance will not cause a substantial increase in public costs;
and
      5.   The variance will not place the subdivision in nonconformance with
any adopted zoning regulations, growth policy or other adopted policies or
regulations.
   D.   The subdivider must include the request(s) with the submission of the
preliminary plat along with a written statement describing and justifying the
requested variance based on the evaluation criteria. The Planning Board and/or
City Council will consider the requested variance at the public meeting or
hearing on the preliminary plat and make its decision based upon the evaluation
criteria. In granting variances, the City Council may impose reasonable
conditions to secure the objectives of these regulations.
   E.   Findings to support a variance that do not circumvent the purpose of
these regulations may be granted for innovative designs including, but not
limited to, improved opportunities for affordable housing, accessibility for
persons with disabilities, preservation of the natural environment, energy
conservation and transportation efficiency.
   F.   When a variance is granted, the motion to approve the proposed
subdivision must contain a statement describing the variance and facts,
conditions and findings upon which the issuance of the variance is based.
   G.   The City Council will not, by variance, permit subdivision for building
purposes in areas located within the floodway of a flood of 100-year frequency
as defined by Montana Code Annotated title 76, chapter 5. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-
2009; amd. Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; Ord. 21-11, 8-16-2021)
12-2-6: RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS; APPROVAL, CONTENTS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The City Council may review the restrictive covenants governing the use
of the land within the subdivision and may require some or all restrictive
covenants, whether proposed by the subdivider or required by the City Council,
be set forth in a separate heading identifying them as conditions of plat
approval, and indicating: “Any restrictive covenant which is required as a
condition of plat approval may not be amended or revoked without the consent of
the owners in accordance with amendment procedures set forth in the covenants
and written consent of the City Council.”
   B.   The city council may require all restrictive covenants it has required
as a condition of plat approval contain the following language: "The city of
Whitefish is a party to this restrictive covenant and may enforce any
provisions required by the city".
   C.   If common property is to be deeded to a property owners' association,
the covenants and bylaws which govern the association must, at a minimum,
provide for the:
      1.   Formation of a property owners' association concurrently with the
filing of the final subdivision plat. Articles of incorporation must be filed
with the secretary of state's office;
      2.   Mandatory membership for each property owner. Purchasers of property
may also be required to sign a waiver of right to protest the formation of a
maintenance district to maintain improvements;
      3.   Perpetual reservation of the common property;
      4.   Payment of liability insurance premiums, local taxes, and the cost
of maintaining recreational or other facilities;
      5.   Placement of liens on the property of lot owners who are delinquent
in the payment of association fees and assessments;
      6.   Ability to adjust assessments to meet changing needs;
      7.   Means of enforcing covenants and receiving and processing
complaints;
      8.   Transition of control of the association from the declarant to the
homeowners;
      9.   Dissolution of the association and modification of the covenants and
restrictions after obtaining the city council's approval of the change;
      10.   Regular maintenance of roads, parks, buildings, drainage
facilities, and other facilities controlled by the association. Execution of
weed management plan reviewed and approved by the city;
      11.   Long term maintenance plan and schedule for privately owned and
maintained improvements. Such maintenance plans will be reviewed and approved
by the city.
   D.   All covenants are considered to run with the land, whether marked or
noted on the subdivision plat or contained in a separate instrument recorded
with the plat. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019)
12-2-7: CONSTRUCTION TIMING:
The subdivider will not engage in excavation, grading, installation or
construction of improvements related to a future subdivision prior to approval
of the preliminary plat, engineering plan approval and a pre-construction
meeting. Any on site improvements will not be grounds for approval and may be
grounds to deny a proposed subdivision. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 19-
11, 6-3-2019)
12-2-8: APPEALS:
   A.   Any decision made by the planning director regarding the
interpretation, application or administration of these regulations may be
appealed to the city council. The appellant must be directly aggrieved by the
decision and the appeal must be based upon the misinterpretation or
misapplication of these regulations. The appeal must be made in writing to the
city council within thirty (30) days of the decision specifically citing the
applicable regulation and how it has been misinterpreted or misapplied.
   B.   Any final action, decision or order made by the city council regarding
an appeal of the director's actions may be further appealed to the district
court pursuant to Montana Code Annotated 76-3-625. A party who is aggrieved by
a decision of the city council may, within thirty (30) days after notification
of the decision, appeal to the district court. The petition must specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is made.
   C.   A person who has filed an application for subdivision may bring an
action in district court against the city to recover actual damages caused by a
final action, order, or decision in accordance with section 76-6-625, MCA. A
person who is aggrieved by a decision of the city council to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny an application for preliminary or final plat may
file an action in district court as set forth in § 76-6-625, MCA. (Ord. 09-23,
11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019)
12-2-9: AMENDMENT OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
   Before the city council amends these regulations it will hold a public
hearing on the proposed amendment(s). Notice of the time and place of the
public hearing must be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days before
the date of the hearing. The city council may, at its discretion, ask for a
recommendation from the community development board and it may also direct the
community development board to hold a public hearing prior to city council
action. In such event, a similar notice must be provided with respect to such
hearing.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
12-2-10: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, partnership, association, company, corporation or
individual who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions of these regulations will be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
offense, and upon conviction thereof, will be punished by a fine of not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
or by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than three (3) months or by
both fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Any person, partnership, association, company, corporation or
individual who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
the provisions of these regulations will be assessed a municipal infraction as
prescribed by this code.
   C.   Every violation of these regulations will be a separate and distinct
offense, and in the case of continuing violation, each day's continuance
thereof may be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense. The existence of a
criminal or other remedy, or the pendency of a criminal proceeding, under the
provisions of these regulations, will not be construed to affect the right of
the city to proceed with the enforcement of any and all of the provisions
hereof by civil proceedings either at law or in equity in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   D.   A violation or a suspected violation may be brought to the attention of
the planning director or designee by any individual who feels a violation has
or may be occurring. The planning director or designee must then conduct an
investigation into the alleged violation. Except as provided in subsections D1
and D2 of this section, if this investigation appears to uphold the allegation,
the offending party must be notified first, who shall have a minimum of ten
(10) days in which to correct the matter, or in which to come to an agreement
on a time frame in which the violation may be abated. Such an agreement will be
binding. In the event these efforts fail to result in an abatement of the
violation, the planning director or designee must then either: 1) issue a
municipal infraction pursuant to this code; or 2) file a complaint with the
city attorney, and in which case the matter must come before a court of
competent jurisdiction for resolution, either through a misdemeanor prosecution
or a civil action, including one seeking equitable relief.
      1.   For the second and any subsequent violation of a similar section of
these regulations, the ten (10) day notice requirement may be waived.
      2.   If the alleged violation consists of an activity which the planning
director determines must be immediately abated in order to protect the public
interest, health, comfort, convenience, safety or general welfare, the ten (10)
day notice requirement may be waived, and the planning director may issue a
stop work order.
   E.   Any person applying for land use approval under these regulations, or
who is otherwise required to comply with these regulations, is responsible for
becoming familiar with these regulations and for complying fully with such
regulations. The failure of city officials to identify a violation of these
regulations in an application or proposal, or the failure of city officials to
notify a person submitting an application or proposal of a particular
requirement or restriction contained in these regulations, does not excuse the
applicant or the person making the proposal from the obligation to comply fully
with such regulations, nor does it affect or waive any of the city's authority
to enforce any of these regulations. Any approval issued in violation of these
regulations, or which includes terms or omits terms in violation of these
regulations, shall be deemed to be invalid. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord.
19-11, 6-3-2019)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-3-1: Preapplication Conference
12-3-2: Application And Review Process
12-3-3: Preliminary Plats
12-3-4: Review Of The Preliminary Plat Application
12-3-5: Expedited Preliminary Plat Review Process
12-3-6: Preliminary Plat Review Process; Major Subdivisions
12-3-7: Preliminary Plat Review Process; Minor Subdivisions
12-3-8: Preliminary Plat Administrative Review Process; Minor Subdivisions
12-3-9: Time Limits For Preliminary Plat Approval
12-3-10: Expired Preliminary Plats
12-3-11: Modifications To Preliminary Plat; New Information Or Amendments To
Plats
12-3-12: Final Plat Process
12-3-13: Latecomers Agreements
12-3-14: Correcting Or Amending Filed Final Plats
12-3-1: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
Prior to submittal of a subdivision application, the subdivider or designated
representative must request a preapplication meeting with a member of the
planning staff and the site review committee. The meeting must occur within
thirty (30) days after a written request for the meeting. The preapplication
meeting request will include the information outlined in appendix A,
"Preapplication Conference", attached to the ordinance codified herein.
Subsequent to the preapplication conference, an application for the subdivision
must be submitted within six (6) months of the meeting date otherwise a second
preapplication meeting must be requested and held. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009;
amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-3-2: APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCESS:
The subdivision application and review process is comprised of the following
two (2) phases in accordance with title 76, chapter 3, Montana Code Annotated:
   A.   Preliminary plat.
   B.   Final plat. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009)
12-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLATS:
Subdivisions are grouped into four (4) categories for review purposes. Each
category is described and referenced below:
   A.   Expedited Preliminary Plat: A subdivision, regardless of the number of
lots, qualifies for the expedited review process in section
12-3-5 if it is:
      1.   Within city limits;
      2.   Included in the City's current Growth Policy;
      3.   Conforms to all City zoning and design standards; and
      4.   Includes plans in the proposal for extension of public
infrastructure.
   B.   Major Subdivision: A subdivision containing six (6) or more lots/
spaces/units, as well as the second or successive minor subdivision where a
cumulative total of six (6) or more lots/spaces/units is proposed from the
original "tract of record" in existence on October 1, 2003.
   C.   Minor Subdivision: A subdivision containing five (5) or fewer lots/
spaces/units and this plat and all previous minor plats proposed from the
original "tract of record" in existence on October 1, 2003, do not exceed a
total of five (5) lots/spaces/units.
   D.   Minor Subdivision; Administrative Review: A Minor Subdivision qualifies
for an Administrative Review if it meets the criteria in Subsection
12-3-3 C and it:
      1.   Is located in an area subject to and complies with zoning
regulations;
      2.   Is connecting to City water and sewer;
      3.   Has existing legal and physical access to each lot; and
      4.   Does not require a variance to any of the subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023)
12-3-4: REVIEW OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION:
A preliminary plat application is considered to be received the date the
complete application is submitted along with the applicable fee. The review
process is as follows:
   A.   Element Review: Within five (5) working days of receipt of a
subdivision application, supporting documentation and fee; the planning staff
must determine whether the application contains all of the required materials
required by these regulations, outlined in the preapplication meeting and
required in appendix B, "Preliminary Plat: Submittal Requirements", attached to
the ordinance codified herein.
      1.   If the city determines the application does not have all the
required elements:
         a.   Staff identifies those elements in a written notification to the
subdivider, and no further action will be taken on the application until the
required materials are submitted.
         b.   The subdivider may provide the missing elements to the planning
department to correct the deficiencies.
         c.   Once the subdivider provides the missing elements to the planning
department, planning staff has five (5) working days from the date of submittal
to notify the subdivider whether the additional information provided contains
all the required materials.
         d.   This process will be repeated until the subdivider submits an
application containing all the materials required or the application is
withdrawn.
      2.   If the city determines all the required elements are present, the
city will issue a written determination to the subdivider and indicate the
sufficiency review pursuant to subsection B of this section will commence.
   B.   Sufficiency Review: Within fifteen (15) working days after the planning
staff notifies the subdivider the application contains all of the required
elements, as provided in subsection A of this section, the staff will determine
whether the application and required elements contain adequate detailed,
supporting information sufficient enough to allow for the review of the
proposed subdivision.
      1.   If planning staff determines the information in the application is
not sufficient for review of the proposed subdivision, planning staff must:
         a.   Identify, in writing, the specific required information missing
from the application materials. No further action will be taken on the
application until the required material is submitted.
         b.   The subdivider may provide the specific required information to
the planning department or withdraw the application.
         c.   Once the subdivider provides the required additional information,
planning staff has fifteen (15) working days from the date of submittal to
notify the subdivider whether the information provided contains adequate
detailed information sufficient for review of the proposed subdivision under
these regulations.
         d.   This process will repeat until the subdivider submits adequate
detailed information sufficient for review of the proposed subdivision under
the provisions of these regulations, or the application is withdrawn.
      2.   If planning staff determines the information in the application is
sufficient to allow for adequate review of the proposed subdivision, planning
staff will issue a written determination to the subdivider and indicate the
formal application review will commence.
   C.   Acceptance Of The Preliminary Plat Application: Once a determination is
made that an application contains sufficient information for review as provided
in subsection B of this section and the application is accepted, it does not
ensure the proposed subdivision will be approved or conditionally approved by
the city council and it does not limit the ability of the planning department,
community development board or city council to request additional information
during the review process.
   D.   Review And Approval Period:
      1.   Expedited Subdivision: A review period of thirty five (35) working
days applies and begins once the planning department has given notice of
sufficiency to the subdivider or the subdivider's agent. Notification
constitutes the date when the reviewing agent or agency has sent the notice to
the subdivider. The city council must approve, conditionally approve or deny
the proposed subdivision within thirty five (35) working days, unless the
subdivider and the planning director agree to an extension or suspension of the
review period or forty-five (45) working days, if requesting a variance from
subdivision regulations.
      2.   Major Subdivisions: A review period of sixty (60) working days or
eighty (80) working days for subdivisions with fifty (50) or more lots applies
and begins once the planning department has given notice of sufficiency to the
subdivider or the subdivider's agent. Notification constitutes the date when
the reviewing agent or agency has sent the notice to the subdivider. For major
subdivisions, the city council must approve, conditionally approve or deny the
proposed subdivision within these time frames, unless the subdivider and the
planning director agree to an extension or suspension of the review period.
      3.   Minor Subdivisions: A review period of thirty five (35) working days
applies and begins once the planning department has given notice of sufficiency
to the subdivider or the subdivider's agent. Notification constitutes the date
when the reviewing agent or agency has sent the notice to the subdivider. The
city council must approve, conditionally approve or deny the proposed
subdivision within thirty five (35) working days, unless the subdivider and the
planning director agree to an extension or suspension of the review period.
      4.   Administrative Minor Subdivision: A review period of thirty (30)
working days applies and begins once the planning department has given notice
of sufficiency to the subdivider or the subdivider's agent. Notification
constitutes the date when the reviewing agent or agency has sent the notice to
the subdivider. The planning director must approve, conditionally approve or
deny the proposed subdivision within thirty (30) working days, unless the
subdivider and the planning director agree to an extension of suspension of the
review period.
      5.   Failure To Comply; Financial Penalties: Failure of the governing
body to comply with the above described time frames will result in financial
penalties pursuant to section 76-3-604(5), Montana Code Annotated.
   E.   Applicability Of Regulations; Amended Regulations: Subdivision review
and approval, conditional approval or denial must be based on those regulations
in effect at the time a subdivision application and preliminary plat is deemed
to contain sufficient information for review. If regulations change during the
element or sufficiency review, the subdivision review will be based on the new
regulations.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023;
Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
12-3-5: EXPEDITED PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Application Submittal: Complete applications must be received in
accordance with a schedule provided by the planning department. The subdivider
must submit the following to the planning department:
      1.   Preliminary plat application on a form provided by the planning
department and required supplemental information.
      2.   The preliminary plat and one reproducible set of supplemental
information, as outlined in appendix B attached to the ordinance codified
herein.
      3.   Application fee as established by the city council.
      4.   The complete application in an acceptable electronic format.
      5.   Verification the property is within the city limits, or the
applicant has submitted a concurrent petition to annex.
      6.   Additional information requested during the preapplication meeting
conference.
   B.   Phased Expedited Subdivision Plat Submittals: The applicant, as part of
the preliminary plat approval, may propose to delineate two (2) or more final
plat filing phases and establish the schedules of the preliminary plat review
and approval.
      1.   Each phase must be freestanding and fully capable of functioning
with all the required infrastructure and improvements in place in the event the
future phases are not completed or completed at a much later time.
      2.   If the applicant proposes a phased subdivision, a phasing plan must
be submitted which outlines:
         a.   A plat delineating each phase and a general time frame for each
phase with overall completion time no longer than twenty (20) years from date
of preliminary plat.
         b.   Public improvements phasing plan showing which improvements will
be completed with each phase.
   C.   Action By The Planning Department: Upon receipt of the complete
application, the department must:
      1.   Distribute copies of the submitted application for review and
comment to the appropriate departments, agencies and utility companies, as
deemed necessary by the planning department;
      2.   Set a date for public hearing by the city council and provide
notification of the public hearing according to the following:
         a.   Notice of the time, date and location of the city council hearing
must be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city not less
than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing, exclusive of the date
of notice and the date of hearing.
         b.   The subdivider and the adjoining property owner of record
included in the subdivision plat excluding any right of way must be notified of
the hearing by first class mail and each property owner of record beyond the
adjacent property owners within one hundred fifty feet (150') not less than
fifteen (15) working days prior to the date of the hearing, exclusive of the
date of notice and the date of hearing. The notice must include the date, time
and location of the city council public hearing, a site plan and city staff
contact information. The notice must also include instructions for submitting
public comments. All written comments and documents regarding the subdivision
must be submitted to the planning director, rather than to the city council
directly, to be forwarded to the hearing body.
         c.   A notice must be posted by the planning department in a
conspicuous place on the site at least fifteen (15) working days prior to the
public hearing and must remain on the subject parcel until all the public
hearings are complete. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure the
sign is maintained in place during the entire public review process.
      3.   Review the submitted plat and supplemental information to determine
compliance with these regulations and prepare a report which will include
comments received from other departments, agencies and utility companies,
findings of fact concerning the public interest, conditions and
recommendations;
      4.   Submit the application, staff report and associated agency and
public comments to the city council members and to the subdivider at least five
(5) days prior to the hearing;
      5.   Present the application and staff report at the hearing.
   D.   City Council Action: When reviewing an application for preliminary
plat, the city council must:
      1.   Review the application, planning department staff report, comments
from other departments and other supplemental information;
      2.   Hold public hearing and receive public comments;
      3.   Prepare and adopt written findings of fact based on the following
evaluation criteria:
         a.   Conformance with the following:
         (1)   The subdivision regulations including, but not limited to, the
current city of Whitefish engineering standards;
         (2)   The Whitefish zoning regulations;
         (3)   Including any criteria for granting variances from subdivision
standards, if requested;
         (4)   Other applicable policies, ordinances and regulations;
         (5)   The Whitefish city-county growth policy; and
         (6)   The Montana subdivision and platting act.
         b.   Proposed mitigation of impacts.
      4.   Based on the above findings, make a recommendation to the city
council to approve, conditionally approve or deny the preliminary plat
according to the timeframes in section
12-3-4D(1):
         a.   A recommendation for approval may incorporate reasonable
conditions of mitigation to reasonably minimize potentially significant adverse
impacts identified above.
         b.   When requiring conditions of mitigation, the city council must
consult with the subdivider and must give due weight and consideration to the
expressed preference of the subdivider for the mitigation of potential adverse
impacts.
         c.   A recommendation for denial may not be based solely on its impact
on educational services;
   E.   City Council Approval:
      1.   Approval may incorporate reasonable conditions of mitigation to
reasonably minimize potentially significant adverse impacts identified above.
      2.   If conditions are placed on the preliminary plat, the imposition of
the condition(s), evidence justifying imposition of the condition(s) and
information regarding the appeal process as provided for in these regulations
must also be provided in writing to the subdivider.
      3.   When requiring conditions of mitigation, the city council must
consult with the subdivider and must give due weight and consideration to the
expressed preference of the subdivider.
      4.   A subdivider may be required to pay or guarantee payment for part or
all of the costs of extending capital facilities related to public health and
safety, including, but not limited to, public roads, sewer lines, water supply
lines and storm drains to a subdivision but the costs must reasonably reflect
expected impacts attributable to the subdivision.
      5.   The city council may not require a subdivider to pay or guarantee
payment for part or all of the costs of constructing or extending capital
facilities related to education.
      6.   After the preliminary plat is approved, the city council may not
impose any additional conditions as prerequisite to final plat approval
providing said approval is obtained within the original or extended approval
period as provided for in these regulations.
      7.   The subdivider must not proceed with any construction work on the
proposed subdivision, including grading and excavation, until such time an
approval or conditional approval is granted by the city council, engineering
plans are approved, and a preconstruction meeting is held. Construction may be
commenced upon approval of the preliminary plat subject to any required
conditions of approval. Upon approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider
may proceed with the preparation and submission of the final plat for approval
by the city council. Prior to final plat approval, lots may not be sold except
as provided for in these regulations. See subsection
12-3-12Lof this chapter.
      8.   The governing body may withdraw approval or conditional approval of
an application and preliminary plat if it determines information provided by
the subdivider, and upon which the approval or conditional approval was based,
is inaccurate.
   F.   City Council Decision: Within thirty (30) days following the city
council decision, a written decision to the applicant must be prepared. This
written decision must include:
      1.   Information regarding the appeal process for the denial or
imposition of conditions;
      2.   Identification of regulations and statutes used in reaching the
decision and how they apply to the decision;
      3.   The facts and conclusions the governing body relied upon in making
its decision and reference the information that forms the basis of the
decision;
      4.   If approved, a list of the conditions that apply to the preliminary
plat approval;
      5.   If denied, reasoning for disapproval, evidence justifying the denial
and information regarding the appeal process.
   G.   Appeals: A party identified in section 76-3-625(3), Montana Code
Annotated, who was aggrieved by a decision of the city council to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny an application and preliminary plat for a
proposed subdivision or a final subdivision plat may, within thirty (30) days
after the decision, appeal to the Flathead County district court. The petition
must specify the grounds upon which the appeal is made. (Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021;
amd. Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023)
12-3-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW PROCESS; MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Application Submittal: Complete applications must be received in
accordance with a schedule provided by the planning department. The subdivider
must submit the following to the planning department:
      1.   Preliminary plat application on a form provided by the planning
department and required supplemental information.
      2.   The preliminary plat and one reproducible set of supplemental
information, as outlined in appendix B attached to the ordinance codified
herein.
      3.   Application fee as established by the city council.
      4.   The complete application in an acceptable electronic format.
      5.   Verification the property is within the city limits, or the
applicant has submitted a concurrent petition to annex.
      6.   Additional information requested during the preapplication meeting
conference.
   B.   Environmental Evaluation: The following environmental evaluation must
be submitted with the preliminary plat application, unless waived by the
planning director or exempted under MCA 76-3-616.
      1.   Water Quality Protection Analysis: Water quality protection areas,
as defined in section
11-3-29  of this code, located within or immediately adjacent to the proposed
subdivision must be identified in a separate report. Impacts to the water
quality protection areas and mitigating measures must also be included. See
sections
12-4-7  and
12-4-10  of this title for additional information.
      2.   Environmental Assessment: Appendix F, "Environmental Assessment",
attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   C.   Phased Major Subdivision Plat Submittals: The applicant, as part of the
preliminary plat approval, may propose to delineate two (2) or more final plat
filing phases and establish the schedules of the preliminary plat review and
approval.
      1.   Each phase must be freestanding and fully capable of functioning
with all the required infrastructure and improvements in place in the event the
future phases are not completed or completed at a much later time.
      2.   If the applicant proposes a phased subdivision, a phasing plan must
be submitted which outlines:
         a.   A plat delineating each phase and a general time frame for each
phase with overall completion time of no longer than twenty (20) years;
         b.   Public improvements phasing plan showing which improvements will
be completed with each phase.
   D.   Action By The Planning Department: Upon receipt of the complete
application the department must:
      1.   Distribute copies of the submitted application for review and
comment to the appropriate departments, agencies and utility companies, as
deemed necessary by the planning department;
      2.   Set a date for public hearing by the community development board and
City Council and provide notification of the public hearing according to the
following:
         a.   Notice of the time, date and location of the initial community
development board and city council hearings must be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
date of the hearing, exclusive of the date of notice and the date of hearing.
         b.   The subdivider and the adjoining property owner of record
included in the subdivision plat excluding any right of way must be notified of
the initial hearing by registered or certified mail and each property owner of
record beyond the adjacent property owners within three hundred feet (300') of
the land must be notified by first class mail not less than fifteen (15)
working days prior to the date of the community development board hearing,
exclusive of the date of notice and the date of hearing. The notice must
include the date, time and location of both the community development board and
city council public hearings, a site plan and city staff contact information.
The notice must also include instructions for submitting public comments. All
written comments and documents regarding the subdivision must be submitted to
the planning director, rather than to the community development board or city
council directly, to be forwarded to the hearing body.
         c.   A notice must be posted by the planning department in a
conspicuous place on the site at least fifteen (15) working days prior to the
public hearing and must remain on the subject parcel until all the public
hearings are complete. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure the
sign is maintained in place during the entire public review process.
      3.   Review the submitted plat and supplemental information to determine
compliance with these regulations and prepare a report which will include
comments received from other departments, agencies and utility companies,
findings of fact concerning the public interest, conditions and
recommendations;
      4.   Submit the application, staff report and associated agency and
public comments to the community development board members and to the
subdivider at least five (5) days prior to the initial community development
board hearing;
      5.   Present the application and staff report at the hearing.
   E.   Action By The Community Development Board: When reviewing an
application for preliminary plat, the community development board must:
      1.   Review the application, planning department staff report, comments
from other departments and other supplemental information;
      2.   Hold public hearing(s) and receive public comments;
      3.   Prepare and adopt written findings of fact. Such findings of fact
must be based on the following evaluation criteria:
         a.   Conformance with the following:
            (1)   The subdivision regulations including, but not limited to,
the current city of Whitefish engineering standards;
            (2)   The Whitefish zoning regulations;
            (3)   Other applicable policies, ordinances and regulations;
            (4)   The Whitefish city-county growth policy; and
            (5)   The Montana subdivision and platting act.
         b.   Effects on agriculture and agricultural water user facilities;
         c.   Effects on local services;
         d.   Effects on the natural environment;
         e.   Effects on wildlife and wildlife habitat;
         f.   Effects on public health and safety; and
         g.   Proposed mitigation of impacts.
      4.   Based on the above findings, make a recommendation to the city
council to approve, conditionally approve or deny the preliminary plat. The
community development board, at its discretion, may choose to not make a
recommendation:
         a.   A recommendation for approval may incorporate reasonable
conditions of mitigation to reasonably minimize potentially significant adverse
impacts identified above.
         b.   When requiring conditions of mitigation, the community
development board must consult with the subdivider and must give due weight and
consideration to the expressed preference of the subdivider for the mitigation
of potential adverse impacts.
         c.   A recommendation for denial may not be based solely on its impact
on educational services.
      5.   Within ten (10) working days after the public hearing, the community
development board must submit the following in writing to the subdivider and
the city council:
         a.   Recommended findings of fact based on the evaluation criteria in
these regulations that discuss and consider the subdivision's compliance with
and potential impacts;
         b.   A recommendation for approval, conditional approval (including
any recommended conditions and/or mitigation measures), or denial of the
subdivision application and preliminary plat;
         c.   A recommendation for approval or denial of any requested
variances; and
         d.   A finding as to whether any public comments or documents
presented for consideration at the community development board's public hearing
constitute significant information or analysis of information the public has
not had a reasonable opportunity to examine and comment.
   F.   Action By The City Council: Upon receipt of the community development
board recommendation, the city council must:
      1.   Review the application, community development board recommendation,
staff report, public comments, and other related information;
      2.   Hold public hearing(s), as may be required or deemed appropriate,
and receive public comments;
      3.   Adopt the written findings of fact as presented by the community
development board, amend these findings or make and adopt new written findings
of fact. Such findings must be based on the following:
         a.   Conformance with the following:
            (1)   The subdivision regulations including, but not limited to,
the current city of Whitefish engineering standards;
            (2)   The city of Whitefish zoning regulations;
            (3)   Other applicable policies, ordinances and regulations;
            (4)   The Whitefish city-county growth policy;
            (5)   The Montana subdivision and platting act.
         b.   Effects on agriculture and agricultural water user facilities;
         c.   Effects on local services;
         d.   Effects on the natural environment;
         e.   Effects on wildlife and wildlife habitat;
         f.   Effects on public health and safety; and
         g.   Proposed mitigation of impacts.
      4.   Based on the above findings, the city council must then approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the preliminary plat according to the time
frames in subsection
12-3-4D2 of this chapter unless the subdivider consents to an extension of the
review period. A subdivision cannot be denied based solely on its impacts on
educational services.
   G.   City Council Approval:
      1.   Approval may incorporate reasonable conditions of mitigation to
reasonably minimize potentially significant adverse impacts identified above.
      2.   If conditions are placed on the preliminary plat, the reason for
imposition of the condition(s), evidence justifying imposition of the condition
(s) and information regarding the appeal process as provided for in these
regulations must also be provided in writing to the subdivider.
      3.   When requiring conditions of mitigation, the city council must
consult with the subdivider and give due weight and consideration to the
expressed preference of the subdivider.
      4.   A subdivider may be required to pay or guarantee payment for part or
all of the costs of extending capital facilities related to public health and
safety, including, but not limited to, public roads, sewer lines, water supply
lines and storm drains to a subdivision but the costs must reasonably reflect
expected impacts attributable to the subdivision.
      5.   The city council may not require a subdivider to pay or guarantee
payment for part or all of the costs of constructing or extending capital
facilities related to education.
      6.   After the preliminary plat is approved, the city council may not
impose any additional conditions as prerequisite to final plat approval
providing said approval is obtained within the original or extended approval
period as provided for in these regulations.
      7.   The subdivider must not proceed with any construction work on the
proposed subdivision, including grading and excavation, until such time an
approval or conditional approval is granted by the city council, engineering
plans are approved, and a pre-construction meeting is held. Construction may be
commenced upon approval of the preliminary plat subject to any required
conditions of approval. Upon approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider
may proceed with the preparation and submission of the final plat for approval
by the city council. Prior to final plat approval, lots may not be sold except
as provided for in these regulations. See subsection
12-3-12L of this chapter.
      8.   The governing body may withdraw approval or conditional approval of
an application and preliminary plat, if it determines information provided by
the subdivider, and upon which the approval or conditional approval was based,
is inaccurate.
   H.   City Council Decision: Within thirty (30) days following the city
council decision, a written decision to the applicant must be prepared. This
written decision must include:
      1.   Information regarding the appeal process for the denial or
imposition of conditions;
      2.   Identification of regulations and statutes used in reaching the
decision and how they apply to the decision;
      3.   The facts and conclusions the governing body relied upon in making
its decision and reference the information that forms the basis of the
decision;
      4.   If approved, a list of the conditions that apply to the preliminary
plat approval;
      5.   If denied, reasoning for disapproval, evidence justifying the denial
and information regarding the appeal process.
   I.   Appeals: A party identified in section 76-3-625(3), Montana Code
Annotated, who was aggrieved by a decision of the city council to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny an application and preliminary plat for a
proposed subdivision or a final subdivision plat may, within thirty (30) days
after the decision, appeal to the Flathead County district court. The petition
must specify the grounds upon which the appeal is made.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 14-22, 1-5-2015; Ord.
21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023; Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
12-3-7: PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW PROCESS; MINOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Application Submittal: The subdivider must submit the following to the
planning department:
      1.   Preliminary plat application form available at planning department
and required supplemental information.
      2.   The preliminary plat and one reproducible set of supplemental
information as provided for in appendix B attached to the ordinance codified
herein.
      3.   Application fee as established by the city council.
      4.   The complete application in an acceptable electronic format.
      5.   Verification the property is within the city limits, or the
applicant has submitted a concurrent petition to annex.
      6.   Additional information requested during the preapplication process.
      7.   Sufficient documentary evidence from the public records
demonstrating the subdivision is a minor subdivision.
   B.   Action By The Planning Department: Upon receipt of the complete
application, the department must:
      1.   Distribute copies of the submitted application for review and
comment to the appropriate departments, agencies and utilities companies, as
deemed necessary by the planning department.
      2.   Set a date for public meeting by the city council and provide
notification of the public meeting according to the following:
         a.   The subdivider and each property owner of record within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of the land included in the subdivision plat
excluding any right of way must be notified of the meeting by regular mail not
less than fifteen (15) working days prior to the date of the public meeting,
exclusive of the date of notice and the date of the meeting. The notice must
include the date, time and location of the public meeting, a site plan and city
staff contact information. The notice must also include instructions for
submitting public comments. All written comments and documents regarding the
subdivision must be submitted to the planning director, rather than to the city
council directly, to be forwarded to the city council.
         b.   A notice must be posted by the planning department in a
conspicuous place on the site at least fifteen (15) working days prior to the
public meeting and must remain on the subject parcel until the public meeting
is complete. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure the sign is
maintained in place during the entire review process.
      3.   Review the submitted plat and supplemental information to determine
compliance with these regulations and prepare a report which must include
comments received from other departments, agencies and utility companies,
written findings of fact concerning the public interest, conditions of approval
and a recommendation.
      4.   Submit the application, staff report and associated agency and
public comments to the city council and to the subdivider at least five (5)
days prior to the meeting.
      5.   Present the application and staff report at the city council
meeting.
   C.   Action By The City Council: The city council must review the
application, staff report and other related information and, thereupon, must
prepare and adopt written findings of fact. Such findings must be based on the
following criteria:
      1.   Conformance with the following:
         a.   The subdivision regulations including, but not limited to, the
current city of Whitefish engineering standards;
         b.   The Whitefish zoning regulations;
         c.   Other applicable policies, ordinances and regulations; and
         d.   The Whitefish city-county growth policy.
      2.   The Montana subdivision and platting act;
      3.   Effects on agriculture and agricultural water user facilities;
      4.   Effects on local services;
      5.   Effects on the natural environment;
      6.   Effects on wildlife and wildlife habitat;
      7.   Effects on public health and safety;
      8.   Proposed mitigation of impacts.
      9.   Based on the above findings, the city council will then approve,
conditionally approve or deny the preliminary plat application based on the
time frames in subsection 12-3-4D3 of this chapter unless the subdivider
consents to an extension of the review period in writing.
   D.   City Council Approval:
      1.   Approval may incorporate conditions of mitigation to minimize
potentially significant adverse impacts identified above.
      2.   If conditions are placed on the preliminary plat, the imposition of
the condition(s), evidence justifying imposition of the condition(s) and
information regarding the appeal process as provided for in these regulations
must also be provided in writing to the subdivider.
      3.   When requiring conditions of mitigation, the city council must
consult with the subdivider and must give due weight and consideration to the
expressed preference of the subdivider.
      4.   A subdivider may be required to pay or guarantee payment for part or
all of the costs of extending capital facilities related to public health and
safety, including, but not limited to, public roads, sewer lines, water supply
lines and storm drains to a subdivision but the costs must reasonably reflect
expected impacts attributable to the subdivision.
      5.   The city council may not require a subdivider to pay or guarantee
payment for part or all of the costs of constructing or extending capital
facilities related to education.
      6.   After the preliminary plat is approved, the city council may not
impose any additional conditions as prerequisite to final plat approval
providing said approval is obtained within the original or extended approval
period as provided above in these regulations.
      7.   The subdivider must not proceed with any construction work on the
proposed subdivision, including grading and excavation, until such time an
approval or conditional approval is granted by the city council, engineering
plans are approved, and a pre-construction meeting is held. Construction may be
commenced upon approval of the preliminary plat subject to any required
conditions of approval. Upon approval or conditional approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider may proceed with the preparation and
submission of the final plat for approval by the city council. Prior to final
plat approval, lots may not be sold except as provided for in these regulations
in section
12-3-12  of this chapter.
      8.   The governing body may withdraw approval or conditional approval of
an application and preliminary plat if it determines information provided by
the subdivider, and upon which the approval or conditional approval was based,
is inaccurate.
   E.   City Council Decision: Within thirty (30) days following the city
council decision, a written decision to the applicant must be prepared. This
written decision must include:
      1.   Information regarding the appeal process for the denial or
imposition of conditions;
      2.   Identification of regulations and statutes used in reaching the
decision and how they apply to the decision;
      3.   The facts and conclusions the governing body relied upon in making
its decision and reference the information that forms the basis of the
decision;
      4.   If approved, a list of the conditions that apply to the preliminary
plat approval;
      5.   If denied, reasoning for disapproval, evidence justifying the denial
and information regarding the appeal process.
   F.   Appeals: A party identified in section 76-3-625(3), Montana Code
Annotated, who was aggrieved by a decision of the city council to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny an application and preliminary plat for a
proposed subdivision or a final subdivision plat may, within thirty (30) days
after the decision, appeal to the Flathead County district court. The petition
must specify the grounds upon which the appeal is made. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-
2009; amd. Ord. 14-22, 1-5-2015; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023)
12-3-8: PRELIMINARY PLAT ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCESS; MINOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Preliminary Plat Administrative Review Process: Based on information
and discussion at the preapplication conference, a minor subdivision may
qualify for an administrative review if:
      1.   It is located in an area subject to and complies with zoning
regulations;
      2.   It is connecting to City water and sewer;
      3.   All lots have existing legal and physical access; and
      4.   No subdivision variance is needed in order to comply with the
Whitefish subdivision regulations. No subdivision variance may be requested or
granted through this administrative approval process.
   B.   Action By The Planning Department: Upon receipt of a complete
application for administrative preliminary plat and subsequent to a
preapplication conference, the planning department will consider the
administrative preliminary plat request based on the above criteria. If the
above criteria are met and the application is complete according to
12-3-4 , the planning department must:
      1.   Notify in writing each property owner of record adjacent to the land
included in the subdivision plat, excluding any rights of way, of the intent to
subdivide at least fifteen (15) working days prior to the date of decision on
the administrative preliminary plat request. The notice most include a site
plan and city staff contact information. The notice most also include
instructions for submitting public comments and a deadline for submitting such
comments.
      2.   A notice must be posted by the planning department in a conspicuous
place on the site at least fifteen (15) working days prior to the date of
decision on the administrative preliminary plat request.
      3.   Written comments from adjacent property owners expressing concerns
or objections, if any, must be specific stating the granting of the
administrative preliminary plat would adversely or injuriously affect their
personal and/or legal interests.
   C.   Planning Department Decision: Once the public noticing period is over,
a written decision to the applicant must be prepared. This written decision
must include:
      1.   Information regarding the appeal process for the denial or
imposition of conditions;
      2.   Identification of regulations and statutes used in reaching the
decision and how they apply to the decision;
      3.   The facts and conclusions the governing body relied upon in making
its decision and reference the information that forms the basis of the
decision;
      4.   If approved, a list of the conditions that apply to the preliminary
plat approval;
      5.   If denied, reasoning for disapproval, evidence justifying the denial
and information regarding the appeal process.
   D.   If a party identified in 76-3-625(3), MCA, objects to the planning
director's decision to approve, conditionally approve or deny an administrative
minor subdivision, the party may request in writing the planning director
forward the application to the city council. The city council shall sustain the
planning director's decision based on the record as a whole unless the decision
was arbitrary, capricious or unlawful. The city council has fifteen (15)
working days from the receipt of the request to review the decision and make a
final determination.
   E.   Administrative Preliminary Plat And Final Plat Approval: When a
preliminary plat has been reviewed administratively, the subdivider may proceed
with completing the required conditions of approval for final plat submittal.
Prior to final plat approval, the city council must adopt findings of fact
based on the criteria outlined in this section.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 16-04, 2-16-2016; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021;
Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023; Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
12-3-9: TIME LIMITS FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
   A.   The approval of the preliminary plat will be in force for not more than
three (3) calendar years, but not less than one calendar year.
   B.   An extension of the approval period for no more than two (2) calendar
years may be granted by the city council provided the written request is made
at least sixty (60) days prior to its expiration with the accompanying fee.
After this extension, the subdivider may request additional time provided the
written request is made at least sixty (60) days prior to expiration but
overall completion may be no longer than ten (10) years for a non phased
preliminary plat.
      1.   If a subdivision is part of an approved planned unit development
(PUD) which contains a specific phasing plan complete with timelines, such
phasing plan will be binding unless amended according to subsection
12-3-6C of this chapter.
      2.   A preliminary plat with a phasing plan must, upon final plat
approval of the first phase, submit final plats for each successive phase
within two (2) years of the previous final plat approval. Failure to meet this
time frame will cause the preliminary plat to expire. A two (2) year extension
for a phase of the subdivision may be requested by the subdivider. After this
extension, the subdivider may request additional time, but overall completion
time may be no longer than twenty (20) years.
   C.   A written request for an extension must include:
      1.   The duration of the requested extension.
      2.   Progress to date in completing the subdivision.
      3.   Circumstances governing the timing of final plat review which
changed beyond the control of the subdivider. List all the circumstances and
state how the new deadline can be met.
      4.   Whether conditions of approval and mitigation for impacts of the
subdivision identified during the preliminary plat review and findings of fact
remain relevant, adequate and applicable to the present circumstances of the
subdivision and community.
   D.   City Council Decision: Upon submittal of an extension request, the
council will review the written request and staff recommendation:
      1.   The first extension request is reviewed by the council under the
consent agenda.
      2.   A subsequent request is reviewed by the council at a public hearing.
Staff must place a legal notice in the paper fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing and notice adjacent landowners according to the noticing requirements
outlined in these regulations. After the public hearing, the council must find
that conditions are unchanged, and applicant has shown a good faith effort in
completion of the subdivision.
      3.   The city council may not impose any additional conditions of
approval. (Ord. 11-12, 7-18-2011; amd. Ord. 12-13, 12-3-2012; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-
2021)
12-3-10: EXPIRED PRELIMINARY PLATS:
If a preliminary plat expires prior to filing final plat and extension(s) are
exhausted, the subdivider may resubmit an application for approval pursuant to
this title as a new case with a new application fee. If the city council review
of a resubmitted plat reveals no substantial change from the previous approved
preliminary plat and conditions under which previous approval was granted have
not changed nor have adopted city regulations or standards changed, the filing
fee may be refunded along with a new approval, at the discretion of the
planning director. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-3-11: MODIFICATIONS TO PRELIMINARY PLAT; NEW INFORMATION OR AMENDMENTS TO
PLATS:
   A.   Receipt Of New Information:
      1.   If new information or analysis of information never submitted as
evidence is submitted, the city council will proceed as set forth in subsection
A1a of this section.
         a.   If the city council determines public comments or other new
information presented at the public hearing constitutes relevant new
information or a substantial change in the design of the subdivision or an
analysis of information regarding the subdivision application the public has
not had a reasonable opportunity to examine and comment, the city council will
determine whether the public comments or documents are relevant and credible
with regard to the governing body's decision, pursuant to subsections A2 and A3
of this section.
         b.   If the city council determines the new information presented to
the city council constitutes the information described in subsection A1a, the
city council may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the proposed
subdivision without basing its decision on the new information if the city
council determines the new information is either irrelevant or not credible or
the change to the design of the subdivision does not substantially impact the
analysis of potentially significant adverse impacts; or
         c.   If the city council determines the new information is relevant
and credible, then the city council must direct the planning department to
schedule a subsequent public hearing for consideration of only the new
information, including any substantial change to the design of the subdivision,
for the purpose of considering its finding of fact and conclusions and any
proposed conditions of approval in light of the new information.
      2.   New information or analysis of information is considered to be
relevant if it may have an impact on the findings and conclusions the city
council will rely upon in making its decision on the proposed subdivision.
      3.   New information or analysis of information is considered to be
credible if it is based on one or more of the following:
         a.   Physical facts or evidence;
         b.   Corroborated personal observations;
         c.   Evidence provided by a person with professional competency in the
subject matter; or
         d.   Scientific data.
      4.   If a subsequent public hearing before the community development
board is held, as required by these regulations, it must be held within forty
five (45) days of the city council's determination. Only the new information or
analysis of information must be considered at the subsequent public hearing.
         a.   A public hearing must be held in accordance with the procedures
outlined in these regulations.
         b.   The review period pursuant to subsection
12-3-4D of this chapter is suspended as of the date of the city council's
action. The review period resumes on the date of the city council's next
scheduled public meeting for which proper notice for the public meeting on the
subdivision application can be provided.
   B.   Revisions To The Preliminary Plat After Community Development Board
Hearing; Minor Changes Or Changes In Response To The Public Hearing: If the
subdivider proposes mitigation measures reasonably designed to lessen impacts
of the proposed subdivision or to address the recommendations from the
community development board, the public, other agencies, or the planning
department prior to city council consideration, the city council may determine
such mitigation measures do not necessitate a subsequent hearing by the
community development board.
      1.   Minor or insignificant amendments to the preliminary plat
application proposed by the subdivider prior to city council consideration must
be submitted to the planning director for a minor amendment determination.
   C.   Revisions To The Preliminary Plat After Community Development Board
Hearing; Major Changes: If, after the community development board public
hearing, the subdivider decides to make significant amendments to address
recommendations from the community development board, the public and other
agencies or for other reasons the preliminary plat must be reconsidered by the
community development board at another public hearing. Significant amendments
to the preliminary plat include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Increasing the number of lots;
      2.   Significant changes to the road systems or layout;
      3.   The elimination or reduction of park land, open space or common
areas;
      4.   Significant changes to the location of buildings, access or parking;
      5.   Other items that significantly alter the plat, as determined by the
planning director.
   D.   Significant Amendments To Preliminary Plat; Waiver; Public Hearing:
Should the subdivider decide to make significant amendments to the preliminary
plat, the planning department must be notified in writing within seven (7)
working days of the public hearing. The letter must include a waiver to the
required review time frames in subsection
12-3-4D of this chapter. A second public hearing will be held by the community
development board at the next available meeting date.
   E.   City Council Consideration: If no written request to amend the
preliminary plat is received by the planning department within seven (7)
working days of the community development board public hearing, the preliminary
plat will be forwarded to the city council for consideration.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023;
Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
12-3-12: FINAL PLAT PROCESS:
   A.   Final Plat: After receiving the preliminary plat approval or
conditional approval, the subdivider may proceed with the preparation and
submission of the final plat of the proposed subdivision. All required
improvements must either be installed, or the subdivider must enter into a
subdivision improvements agreement with the city council prior to the filing of
the final plat guaranteeing the installation of remaining improvements.
The final plat must be reviewed for conformance with the conditions of
preliminary plat approval, proper final engineering and subdivision design, the
proper dedication of lands required for public use and adequate construction of
public improvements. The final plat must incorporate all modifications required
as part of the preliminary plat approval and current city of Whitefish
engineering standards.
   B.   Phasing Of Final Plat Submittals: The applicant, as part of an approved
preliminary plat, may have delineated two (2) or more phases of the
subdivision. Each of those phases can be filed as a separate final plat and
need not necessarily be filed sequentially provided subsections
12-3-5 B or
12-3-6 C of this chapter and MCA 76-3-617 are met.
      1.   If no phasing plan was indicated on the preliminary plat approval,
the applicant may submit to the planning department a plan outlining
anddelineating each phase of the subdivision, a general time frame for each
phase, and a plan denoting which improvements will be completed with each
phase. Prior to submittal of the final plat application, the phasing plan must
be approved by the planning, public works and fire departments. The phasing
plan must not result in significant or material changes to the subdivision nor
result in adverse and unanticipated impacts to the surrounding properties.
      2.   Minor modifications to an approved phasing plan which do not change
impacts on any adjoining property may be submitted to the planning director for
review and approval.
   C.   Commencement of Each Phase: For any phase of the approved subdivision
submitted for final plat approval more than five (5) years after the date of
preliminary approval of the subdivision, after the initial phase, the
subdivider must provide written notice to the Planning Department not more than
one (1) year or less than ninety (90) days in advance of submitting the final
plat application. Commencement means after all the engineering plans are
approved but before any pre-construction meeting or any grading or excavation.
If all the infrastructure is installed for the entire project, it is not a
phased subdivision under this provision.
      1.   Within thirty (30) working days of the request, the Planning
Department must schedule a public hearing before the City Council in accordance
with 76-3-617, MCA. The Planning Department must draft a report evaluating the
application and propose findings on whether there are any changed circumstances
justifying amending any condition of approval or imposing additional conditions
of approval, primary review criteria impacts or if new information exists that
creates new potentially significant adverse impacts. This report will accompany
the application materials submitted by the applicant for City Council review.
      2.   The City Council must determine whether any changed primary criteria
impact or new information exists that creates new potentially significant
adverse impacts for the phase or phases. The City Council may amend or impose
necessary, additional conditions only if it determines, based on a review of
the primary criteria, that the existing conditions of approval are inadequate
to mitigate the potentially significant adverse impacts identified during the
original review based on changed circumstances.
         a.   If significant adverse impacts are identified, the City Council
must issue supplemental written findings of fact no more than twenty (20)
working days after the hearing.
         b.   If no new significant adverse impacts are identified, the City
Council must issue supplemental written findings of fact no more than twenty
(20) working days after the hearing. The written statement must document that
there are no new significant adverse impacts.
   D.   Final Plat Submittal: A complete application for final plat approval
must be submitted to the planning department at least ninety (90) days prior to
the expiration date of the preliminary plat. Complete final plat applications
submitted less than ninety (90) days prior to expiration have the possibility
of expiring prior to city council review and final action. A final plat is
considered received on the date of delivery to the planning department when
accompanied by the review fee. The planning department has a twenty (20)
working day review period. If the application meets the requirements outlined
in this subsection, staff will then schedule the item for city council. The
submittal must include the following:
      1.   Written application form provided by planning department;
      2.   Application review fee as set by the city council;
      3.   A written explanation as to how all of the conditions of approval
are met;
      4.   All attachments to the final plat, as specified in appendix C,
"Final Plat Contents And Requirements", attached to the ordinance codified
herein;
      5.   Certification by the subdivider indicating which required
improvements are completed on the site or are subject to an attached
subdivision improvements agreement in conformance with these regulations
securing the future construction of public improvements.
      6.   The complete application in an acceptable electronic format.
   E.   Action By The Planning Department: The planning department will review
the submitted plat and documents with regards to:
      1.   Compliance with the approved preliminary plat;
      2.   Compliance with the conditions of approval imposed by the city
council;
      3.   Compliance with the subdivision regulations;
      4.   Compliance with the Montana subdivision and platting act;
      5.   Compliance with other ordinances, regulations and policies adopted
by the city of Whitefish.
If the planning department determines the submitted final plat and attachments
are complete and in substantial compliance with all established requirements,
it will review and make its recommendation for approval to the City Council.
The City Council must approve the completed final plat application and
recommendation prior to actual expiration of the preliminary plat.
   F.   Action By The City Council: The city council must approve the final
plat if the final plat conforms to:
      1.   The approved preliminary plat;
      2.   The conditions of approval set forth on the preliminary plat;
      3.   The Montana subdivision and platting act;
      4.   The subdivision regulations;
      5.   Other applicable ordinances, regulations and policies adopted by the
city of Whitefish;
      6.   All the required improvements are installed or a written subdivision
improvements agreement with the City of Whitefish pursuant to these regulations
is executed.
If the final plat is denied, the reasons for denial must be stated in the
minutes of the city council and a copy forwarded to the subdivider. The city
council may withdraw approval of a plat if it determines information provided
by the subdivider, and upon which such approval was based, is inaccurate, but
such withdrawal may occur only after prior written notice to the subdivider and
an opportunity for the subdivider to respond. The acceptance of land
dedications must be made by specific action of the city council and must be
noted on the plat.
The City Council must approve or deny a final plat application within twenty
(20) working days after receiving the planning department recommendation,
unless the subdivider waives in writing the right to have such a decision
within the prescribed time limit. The city council must notify in writing the
subdivider and the planning department of its approval or denial of the final
plat.
A party identified in Montana Code Annotated section 76-3-625(3) aggrieved by a
decision of the City Council to approve, conditionally approve, or deny an
application and preliminary plat for a proposed subdivision or a final
subdivision plat may, within thirty (30) days after the decision, appeal to the
Flathead County District Court. The petition must specify the grounds upon
which the appeal is made.
   G.   Final Plat Recording: The subdivider has thirty (30) days from the date
of the approval of the final plat to record the approved final plat and
required documents with the Flathead County Clerk and recorder. No building
permits will be issued the final plat is recorded.
   H.   Improvements Required Prior To Final Plat: Improvements required to be
completed prior to submitting an application for final plat include complete
street improvements, sidewalks, walkways, streetlights, street signs,
utilities, water, hydrants, sewer, stormwater/drainage improvements, and solid
waste facilities. Other required improvements' installation may be delayed
through the use of a subdivision improvement agreement, as provided for in this
section. The following procedures and requirements apply unless the completion
of improvements is deferred.
      1.   Completion Of Improvements: All improvements required under these
regulations and the conditions imposed by the City Council at the time of
approval of the preliminary plat must be completed prior to the approval of the
final plat, unless the subdivider defers completion of required improvements
subject to the execution of a subdivision improvements agreement.
      2.   Certification Of Improvements: The subdivider must file with the
city engineer and the public works department copies of final construction
plans, road profiles, proposed grades and specifications for improvements and
copies of final as built plans, profiles, grades and specifications for all
improvements.
      3.   Inspection And Certification Of Improvements: The subdivider will
provide for inspection of all required public improvements by a professional
engineer before final plat approval when installation is a condition of
approval, or before the city releases the subdivider from the subdivision
improvements agreement. Should the subdivider fail to meet the requirements of
this section, the city may provide for such inspection and the cost must be
borne by the subdivider. Upon completion of the inspection, the inspecting
engineer must file with the city a statement either certifying the improvements
have been completed in the required manner or listing the defect in those
improvements. The statement from a professional engineer licensed in the state
of Montana must certify the following:
         a.   All required improvements are complete;
         b.   The improvements are in compliance with the plans and
specifications approved by the city engineer, the public works department, the
fire chief or designee and planning department;
         c.   The engineer must certify there are no known defects in these
improvements;
         d.   The improvements are free and clear of any encumbrance or lien;
and
         e.   All applicable fees and surcharges have been paid.
   I.   Subdivision Improvements Agreements: The city must specify in
subdivision improvements agreements all improvements required to be completed
after the final plat is approved. The city must specify the improvements be
constructed to standards included in these regulations and other city
standards. A subdivision improvement agreement may not include streets,
sidewalks, walkways, streetlights, street signs, utilities, water, hydrants,
sewer, stormwater/drainage improvements, or solid waste but may include, but
are not limited to, shared use paths, park and recreational facilities,
landscaping, and other improvements, as required by the city.
      1.   Time Limits: All public improvements must be completed within the
time schedule approved by the city and stated in the subdivision improvement
agreement. However, in no case will this period exceed twenty four (24) months
from the date of approval of the final plat by the city.
      2.   Subdivision Improvements Agreement Extension: At the discretion of
the city council, an extension to the completion of the subdivision
improvements may be extended for an additional twenty four (24) months provided
the request is made in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration
of the subdivision improvements agreement, an updated cost of improvements
together with financial guarantee accompanies the request and the subdivider
can show continued good faith in working toward finalizing the improvements.
      3.   Projected Costs: The subdivider must submit plans, specifications
and cost estimates, prepared by a professional engineer or landscape architect,
for the completion of all remaining improvements. The projected improvements
cost must be one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the current costs for
completing the improvements. The submitted plans, specifications and projected
costs must be reviewed and approved by the city engineer prior to submittal.
      4.   Contents Of Subdivision Improvements Agreements: The subdivision
improvements agreements must include:
         a.   A commitment to complete the improvements within the specified
time;
         b.   The projected costs of the improvements as approved by the city;
and
         c.   A guarantee acceptable to the city and in a value equal to the
approved projected costs equaling one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
current cost of the improvements.
      5.   Subdivision Improvement Guarantee: The subdivider must provide a
guarantee that the improvements will be satisfactorily completed. The guarantee
must have a value equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
current projected costs of completing the improvements, as stated in these
regulations. The guarantee must specify procedures for the city to obtain the
funds should the subdivider fail to satisfactorily complete the improvements.
The guarantee must have an expiration date sixty (60) days beyond the term of
the subdivision improvements agreement. The types of guarantees acceptable to
the city are described in this chapter. The method of guarantee must be subject
to approval of the city.
      6.   Engineering Guarantee; Reduction And Release: Only after the
inspecting engineer certifies improvements are complete and free from defect,
and after receipt of other statements detailed above, the city must release the
subdivider from the subdivision improvements agreement.
      7.   Landscaping/Park And Recreation Guarantee; Reduction And Release:
Only after the inspecting landscaper certifies the improvements are complete,
the planning and/or parks departments conducts an inspection, and the planning
department receives a two (2) year, twenty percent (20%) maintenance guarantee
based on materials and labor for the improvements, the city must release the
subdivider from the subdivision improvement agreement.
      8.   Failure To Satisfactorily Complete Improvements: If city staff
determines any improvements are not constructed in compliance with the
specifications, they must furnish the subdivider with a list of specific
deficiencies and may withhold collateral sufficient to ensure proper
completion. If the city determines the subdivider will not construct any or all
improvements to required specifications, or within the time limits, it may
withdraw collateral and use these funds to construct the improvements and
correct any deficiencies to meet specifications. Unused portions of these funds
must be returned to the subdivider or crediting institution.
      9.   Acceptable Forms Of Guarantees: The subdivider must provide one or
more of the following financial security guarantees, as approved and accepted
by the city. The financial guarantee must equal one hundred twenty five percent
(125%) of the amount of the projected costs of installing all required
improvements. The city may incrementally reduce the financial security provided
by the subdivider commensurate with the completion of improvements:
         a.   Escrow Account: The subdivider must deposit cash, or collateral
readily convertible to cash at face value, either with the city or in escrow
with a bank. The use of collateral other than cash, and the selection of the
bank where the funds are to be deposited, must be approved by the city. Where
an escrow account is to be used, the subdivider must give the city an agreement
with the bank guaranteeing the following:
            (1)   That the funds in the escrow account are to be held in trust
until released by the city and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider as
security for any other obligation during that period.
            (2)   That should the subdivider fail to complete the required
improvements, the bank must immediately make the funds in escrow available to
the city for completing these improvements.
         b.   Letter Of Credit: Subject to city approval, the subdivider must
provide the city with a letter of credit from a bank or other reputable
institution or individual certifying the following:
            (1)   That the creditor guarantees funds in an amount equal to one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the projected cost, as approved by the
city, of completing all required improvements;
            (2)   That if the subdivider fails to complete the specified
improvements within the required period, the creditor will immediately pay to
the city upon presentation of a sight draft without further action, an amount
of cash necessary to finance the completion of those improvements, up to the
limit of credit stated in the letter;
            (3)   An expiration date of the letter of credit sixty (60) days
beyond the term of the subdivision improvements agreement;
            (4)   That the letter of credit may not be withdrawn or reduced in
amount until released by the city.
         c.   Surety Performance Bond: The bond must be executed by a surety
company authorized to do business in the state of Montana and acceptable as a
surety to the city and countersigned by a Montana agent. The bond must be
payable to the city. The bond must be in effect until the completed
improvements are accepted by the city.
         d.   Other Acceptable Guarantee(s): The City Council, at its
discretion, may accept any other reasonable guarantee not stated herein, to
ensure satisfactory completion of the improvements.
         e.   Sequential Development Of Improvements: The City Council may
approve an incremental payment or guarantee plan. The improvements in a prior
increment must be completed or the payment or guarantee of payment for the
costs of the improvements incurred in a prior increment must be satisfied
before development of future increments.
         f.   Special Improvement District: The City Council may enter into an
agreement with the subdivider, and the owners of the property proposed for
subdivision if other than the subdivider, that the installation of required
improvements will be financed through a special improvement district created
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated Title 7, Chapter 12. The agreement must
provide that no lots within the subdivision will be sold, rented or leased, and
no contract for the sale of lots executed before the improvement district has
been created.
The subdivider, or other owners of the property involved, must also petition
the city council to create a special improvement district, which constitutes a
waiver by the subdivider and/or the subsequent owners of the property of the
right to protest or petition against the creation of the district under Montana
Code Annotated Section 7-12-4110. This waiver must identify the specific
capital improvements for which protest is being waived and must be filed with
the Flathead County Clerk and recorder and will be deemed to run with the land.
   J.   Changes To The Final Plat: Insignificant changes which have a minimal
impact on the scale or scope of the project or immediate neighborhood must be
so noted in the planning department report to the City Council. Changes which
either the planning director or the city council determines to be substantial
must be returned to the Community Development Board for rehearing and
consideration as amendments to the original preliminary plat following
procedures outlined in these regulations. The time frames identified in section
12-3-4D of this chapter apply to amended preliminary plats. Substantial changes
would include:
      1.   The reconfiguration or rearrangement of six (6) or more lots;
      2.   Increasing the number of lots;
      3.   Significant changes to the road systems or layout;
      4.   The elimination of park land, open space or common areas;
      5.   Changes to the location of buildings, access or parking.
   K.   Deletions Or Substantial Changes To Conditions Of Approval: When
requesting a deletion or substantial change to any condition of written
approval except when a condition of approval is effectively changed as a result
of new or modified governmental regulations, the subdivider will be scheduled
for a public hearing for an expedited or a major subdivision, public meeting
for a minor subdivision before the City Council or review by the planning
director for an administrative minor subdivision. The subdivider must submit a
narrative indicating the reasoning for the request and how the request will not
change the overall plan. Staff will notice adjacent landowners according to the
requirements in subsections
12-3-5 C(2) for expedited preliminary plat,
12-3-6 D(2) for a major subdivision,
12-3-7 B(2) for a minor subdivision or
12-3-8 B(1) for an administrative minor subdivision.
   L.   Sale Of Lots Prior To Final Plat Approval: A final subdivision plat
must be approved and filed for record with the Flathead County Clerk and
recorder before title to the subdivided land can be sold or transferred in any
manner. However, after the preliminary plat of a subdivision has been approved
or conditionally approved, the subdivider may enter into contracts to sell lots
in the proposed subdivision if all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   Under the terms of the contracts, the purchasers of the lots in the
proposed subdivision make any payments to an escrow agent which must be a bank
or savings and loan association chartered to do business in the State of
Montana;
      2.   Under the terms of the contracts and the escrow agreement, the
payments made by purchasers of lots in the proposed subdivision may not be
distributed by the escrow agent to the subdivider until the final plat of the
subdivision is filed with the Flathead County Clerk and Recorder;
      3.   The contracts and the escrow agreement provide that, if the final
plat of the proposed subdivision is not filed with the Flathead County Clerk
and Recorder within the period of the preliminary plat approval, the escrow
agent must immediately refund to each purchaser any payments made under the
contract;
      4.   The Flathead County Treasurer has certified that no real property
taxes assessed and levied on the land to be divided are delinquent; and
      5.   The contracts contain the following language conspicuously set out
therein: “The real property which is the subject of this contract has not been
finally platted, and until a final plat identifying the property has been filed
with the Flathead County Clerk and Recorder, title to the property may not be
transferred in any manner.”
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-13, 12-3-2012; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021;
Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023; Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
12-3-13: LATECOMERS AGREEMENTS:
Any person who constructs more than two hundred feet (200’) of water and/or
sanitary sewer infrastructure improvements, as required by the city, in excess
of what is required to meet minimum standards or extends beyond the minimum
requirement for improvement to benefit properties abutting the new
improvements, may, with the approval of the city, enter into a contract with
the city which allows the developer to be reimbursed for that portion of the
construction cost that benefits the adjoining properties and/or is in excess of
the minimum standard. This contract is commonly termed a “latecomers
agreement.” Cost apportionment for a latecomers agreement must be submitted for
review and approval on a form provided by Public Works prior to plan approval
to be considered. See the most current city of Whitefish Engineering Standards
for more information and requirements. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-
15, 9-20-2021)
12-3-14: CORRECTING OR AMENDING FILED FINAL PLATS:
   A.   Correcting Filed Final Plats: Correction of drafting or surveying
errors that, in the city council's opinion, will not materially alter the plat,
its land division, or the improvements to less than the standards contained
herein, may be made by the submission of a corrected final plat for the city
council's approval. The plat must be entitled "Corrected Plat of the (name of
subdivision) Subdivision" and the reason for the correction must be stated on
the face of the plat.
   B.   Amending Filed Final Plats: Changes that materially alter the final
plat or any portion thereof or its land divisions or improvements must be made
by the filing of an amended plat showing all alterations. Within a platted
subdivision, any division of lots which result in:
      1.   Increase in the number of lots;
      2.   Redesigns or rearranges six (6) or more lots; or
      3.   Results in significant material changes.
If the amendments to the plat result in significant material changes, the
amended plat must be subject to procedural requirements for major and minor
subdivisions as outlined in this chapter. Amended plats must be subject to all
standards contained in these regulations and an amended plat must be filed with
the county clerk and recorder.
The final amended plat submitted for approval must comply with the final plat
requirements of this chapter with the exception that the title must include the
word "amended" ("Amended Plat of the [name] Subdivision" or "[name]
Subdivision, Amended").
   C.   Amendment Exemption: The relocation of common boundaries and the
aggregation of lots within platted subdivision where five (5) or fewer of the
original lots are affected are exempt from approval procedures as a
subdivision. In such case, an amended plat must be prepared following the
requirements of these regulations, except that in place of the city council's
approval, the landowner certifies that the approval of the city council is not
required pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-3-207(1), as amended.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Subdivisions To Comply With Design Standards
12-4-2: Planning Considerations
12-4-3: Natural Environment To Be Preserved
12-4-4: Lands Unsuitable For Subdivision
12-4-5: Tree Preservation Plan
12-4-6: Wildland Urban Interface (WUI); Special Standards
12-4-7: Water Quality Protection Areas Identification And Protection; Wetlands,
Streams, Lakes And The Whitefish River
12-4-8: Floodplain Provisions
12-4-9: High Groundwater
12-4-10: Geotechnical Review; Site Characterization
12-4-11: Park Land And Open Space Requirements
12-4-12: Lots
12-4-13: Blocks
12-4-14: Access
12-4-15: Streets And Roads
12-4-16: Alleys
12-4-17: Sidewalks
12-4-18: Water Supply Systems
12-4-19: Sanitary Sewer Systems And Sewage Treatment Systems
12-4-20: Fire Protection
12-4-21: Solid Waste Diversion, Collection And Disposal
12-4-22: Boulevard Landscaping And Street Trees
12-4-23: Street Lighting
12-4-24: Mail Facilities
12-4-25: Street Naming Standards
12-4-26: Drainage Facilities
12-4-27: Grading Plans
12-4-28: Erosion And Sedimentation Control
12-4-29: Utilities And Easements
12-4-30: Noxious Weeds
12-4-31: Affordable Housing
12-4-1: SUBDIVISIONS TO COMPLY WITH DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Additional Regulations: In addition to the requirements
established herein, all subdivision plats are subject to applicable laws,
ordinances and regulations, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Montana subdivision and platting act, as amended.
      2.   This code, including, but not limited to: zoning, lakeshore
regulations and floodplain regulations.
      3.   International building code adopted by the city of Whitefish or the
state of Montana.
      4.   Fire code, most current adopted by the city council.
      5.   City of Whitefish engineering standards, most current standards.
      6.   Whitefish city-county growth policy.
      7.   Flathead County communitywide wildfire protection plan.
      8.   Any other regulations applicable to the land proposed for
subdivision.
   B.   Compliance With Current Whitefish Engineering Standards: All
subdivisions and associated public and private infrastructure most comply with
the current city of Whitefish engineering standards, unless a variance from a
particular section of this chapter is requested in writing and is granted by
the city council pursuant to these regulations. Engineering and survey plans,
specifications, design details and reports required by the city must be
prepared by a professional engineer or professional surveyor, as their
respective license laws allow.
   C.   Planned Unit Developments (PUD): When a subdivider proposes to utilize
the PUD provisions of the Whitefish zoning jurisdiction regulations,
applications for individual variances to these design standards do not need to
be requested provided the provisions of the PUD are adhered to under the zoning
regulations. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-2: PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS:
The design standards in these regulations are organized in a manner to ensure
the subdivider considers the natural features of a piece of property first
before determining the layout of the subdivision. Whitefish is characterized by
its many natural amenities and the community expects these important features
be retained as development of the community occurs. Development will only occur
in the most suitable locations and design must take into consideration the
following:
   A.   Topography in relation to slope stability, type of soils and steepness
of grade.
   B.   Land subject to hazardous conditions such as landslides, rockfalls,
subsidence, shallow water table, open quarries, floods, polluted or nonpotable
water supply and wildland fire must be identified on the preliminary plat.
   C.   Land in the floodway must be set aside for uses which will not
aggravate the flood hazard; will not be endangered by flooding; and in general
will not endanger the health, safety and welfare of the public and the
residents of the subdivision.
   D.   Lands within the buffers of wetlands, streams, lakes and the Whitefish
River.
   E.   Land area in floodplains, areas of high groundwater or natural or
scenic areas, schools, parks, open space, road rights of way and easements must
be reserved and located according to good planning and engineering practices
and principles.
   F.   Multiple land uses within the subdivision must be properly situated to
provide the maximum convenience to the residents and, if needed, appropriate
buffering.
   G.   The subdivision must be designed to allow connectivity into adjacent
subdivisions in conjunction with any adopted transportation or master trail
plan.
   H.   When only a portion of a property is to be subdivided and development
is contemplated for the remaining portion of the property, the subdivider must
provide a reasonable development plan indicating the intentions for the
remaining portion of the property. Such a plan must show in a general fashion:
proposed roadways, lot locations and parks or common areas, if known. (Ord. 09-
23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-3: NATURAL ENVIRONMENT TO BE PRESERVED:
The economic base of Whitefish can and should be protected through the
preservation and enhancement of the area's unique natural beauty and
environment. The general objectives of this chapter are to promote and protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the public. The design and development of
subdivisions must contain satisfactory building sites which are properly
related to topography and must preserve, to the greatest extent possible, the
natural terrain, natural drainage, existing topsoil, trees, natural vegetation,
wildlife and fish habitats, including, but not limited to, wetlands, streams,
lakes and the Whitefish River. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-
2021)
12-4-4: LANDS UNSUITABLE FOR SUBDIVISION:
There are certain lands within the Whitefish jurisdiction which are considered
unsuitable for development. These areas must not be subdivided for building or
residential purposes unless the hazards are eliminated or will be overcome by
approved design and construction methods. These lands may include the
following:
   A.   Areas where there is potential of environmental degradation,
   B.   Floodplains and areas prone to flooding,
   C.   Areas prone to wildland fire,
   D.   Snow avalanches,
   E.   Rockfalls,
   F.   Landslides,
   G.   Slopes exceeding thirty percent (30%) grade,
   H.   Areas of subsidence,
   I.   Areas with high groundwater or water table,
   J.   Areas with polluted or a nonpotable water supply,
   K.   High voltage lines,
   L.   High pressure gas lines,
   M.   Air or vehicular traffic hazards or congestion,
   N.   Other features which may be detrimental to the health, safety or
general welfare of existing or future residents, or
   O.   Where development would place unreasonable burdens on the general
public including the requirements of excessive expenditure of public funds.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-5: TREE PRESERVATION PLAN:
The intent of this section is to establish procedures and practices encouraging
the protection, installation, and long-term maintenance of trees, vegetation,
and other landscaping elements within a subdivision development. Incorporating
vigorous trees helps to better integrate a development into existing
neighborhoods and provide natural buffers. A certified arborist must prepare a
tree preservation plan identifying the vigorous trees to be preserved. The goal
of preserving trees will be balanced with installing infrastructure, providing
views for properties, and using tree replanting measures when needed.
   A.   Location Of Existing Trees; Preservation Priorities; Landscaping
Improvements Credits: Subdivision layout must consider the location of existing
vigorous native trees or vigorous tree species appropriate for northwest
Montana to be preserved. Tree preservation priorities will be in open space
areas or other commonly owned areas, followed by trees on individual lots.
Trees that are hazardous, diseased, in a state of decline, or invasive species
are not appropriate for preservation. Preserving trees and vegetation may also
provide credits where landscaping improvements are required if proper
protection is ensured during construction.
   B.   Tree Preservation Standards: Vigorous trees four inches (4") or more
dbh (diameter at breast height), which lie outside the building footprint must
be identified on the preliminary plat. In addition, a preservation plan for
those trees must be provided. Groups of vigorous trees or groves of trees with
diameters less than four inches (4") in diameter are also encouraged to be
saved.
   C.   Tree Protection Areas:
      1.   A certified arborist must identify the critical root zone and tree
protection area of each tree or grouping of trees to be preserved. At a
minimum, the critical root zone will include the area within the drip line of
the tree to be preserved.
      2.   Protection methods such as trimming/pruning of trees and tree
barricades must be identified by a certified arborist and must conform to
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A-300 standards and International
Society of Arboriculture (ISA) recommendations for proper barricading.
      3.   Layout of the project site utility and grading plans must avoid
disturbance of the tree protection area.
      4.   Construction site activities such as grading, excavation, and
materials storage must not disturb tree protection areas.
   D.   Protective Barriers:
      1.   Protective tree fencing must be installed between buffers and tree
protection zones and zones proposed to be cleared, graded, or otherwise
disturbed on the site, prior to any land disturbance.
      2.   All tree protection zones must be designated as such with “tree
protection zone” or similar signs posted in addition to the required protective
fencing. It is the responsibility of the applicant and their contractors to
ensure all on-site workers including subcontractors understand and comply with
tree protection standards.
      3.   All tree protection zones must be protected from soil sedimentation
intrusion by using silt screens or other acceptable measures placed up slope
from the tree protection area.
      4.   All protective tree fencing and erosion control barriers must be
installed prior to and maintained throughout the land disturbing and
construction process, and may not be removed until final landscaping is
installed. A preconstruction inspection of the barricading with the certified
arborist, the construction project manager or designee, and the planning
director or designee is required prior to commencement of any work activity.
   E.   Encroachment: If encroachment into a tree protection zone occurs and
causes irreparable damage to the trees, the certified arborist must revise the
tree preservation and/or replacement plan to compensate for the loss.
Replacement trees must be equivalent in value to the damaged trees as
determined by a certified arborist using the standards outlined in the ISA
Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers' Guide for Plant Appraisal. Under no
circumstances will the developer be relieved of responsibility for compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, nor will plan revision activities stop the
department from instituting action for violation of this chapter. (Ord. 09-23,
11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-6: WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE (WUI); SPECIAL STANDARDS:
High fire hazard areas include heads of draws, excessive slopes, dense forest
growth, or other hazardous wildfire components. The design of subdivisions
proposed in areas subject to wildfire hazard need to consider subdivision
layout, access, signage, vegetation management and homeowner education. The
subdivider must provide a detailed site map including all fire protection
features to meet the following standards:
   A.   Fuel Mitigation
      1.   For each lot in the subdivision, a building envelope establishing a
minimum defensible space must be defined prior to construction. The defensible
space must be based on the Defensible Space Guidelines in Appendix B of the
most current Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation
Guidelines for Development within the Wildland Urban Interface.
      2.   A vegetation management plan must be developed for all properties
within the subdivision, including open space areas. The plan must be reviewed
and approved by the fire department prior to final plat. The intent of the plan
is to reduce fuel loading and provide continuous maintenance of the fuel load.
It must address the following:
         a.   Protection of life and property.
         b.   Reduction of the potential for a fire to spread outside of the
neighborhood or onto adjacent properties.
         c.   Provide safe working areas for emergency responders fighting
fire.
         d.   Maintain important native plant communities and the ecological
processes that influence them.
         e.   Areas within five feet (5') of each side of a driveway must be
cleared of vegetation prior to the construction of any new structure.
   B.   Site Development
      1.   Building sites are prohibited on slopes greater than thirty percent
(30%) or at the apex or within one hundred and fifty feet (150’) of “fire
chimneys” (ravines or other topographic features which tend to funnel or
otherwise concentrate fire toward the top of steep slopes).
      2.   Water sources, wells, draft sites, hydrants, fire breaks, access
routes, and other fire protection equipment or features required by the
preliminary plat approval must be installed prior to final plat and prior to
construction of any structures.
   C.   Fuelbreaks and Greenbelts
      1.   Fuelbreaks and greenbelts should be incorporated to slow or stop the
spread of fire. Dead and fallen trees, tree limbs, shrubs, and other flammable
vegetation must be removed from the perimeter of the subdivision in a band one
hundred through three hundred feet (100’ - 300’) wide. This area must be
designated on the final plat.
      2.   Clearing limits must be designated on the final plat and development
must only occur within these areas.
      3.   Prior to construction, the defensible space described above must be
implemented.
   D.   Access:
      1.   A minimum of two approach routes, located as remotely from each
other as possible, should be provided. If two approach routes are not feasible,
the risk must be mitigated by using one or more of the following measures:
         a.   Increased defensible space;
         b.   Fuel breaks along roadways;
         c.   Turnouts and pull-outs;
         d.   Cul-de-sacs and/or hammer head 'T' turnarounds;
         e.   Increased flows of the fire protection water supply;
         f.   Interior fire sprinklers;
         g.   Exterior fire-retardant sprinkler systems; and
         h.   Safety zones.
      2.   All roads within a new subdivision must be identified with approved
noncombustible, reflective road signs that meet city standards. All structures
within the subdivision must be clearly identified prior to occupancy with
address numbers visible and legible from the street.
      3.   Subdivisions should be designed to ensure fire apparatus has access
to within one hundred and fifty feet (150’) of all buildings to be constructed
on lots in the subdivision.
      4.   Access roads must be at least twelve feet (12’) wide for each lane
of travel not including shoulders and have at least thirteen and a half feet
(13.5’) of vertical clearance. Grades must not be greater than ten percent
(10%) unless approved by the fire department. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd.
Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-7: WATER QUALITY PROTECTION AREAS IDENTIFICATION AND PROTECTION; WETLANDS,
STREAMS, LAKES AND THE WHITEFISH RIVER:
   A.   All properties proposed for subdivision are subject to section 11-3-29,
“Water Quality Protection,” of this code as part of the preliminary plat review
process. Water quality protection areas located within or immediately adjacent
to the proposed subdivision must be identified on the preliminary plat. This
includes the location of critical stormwater conveyances, rivers, streams,
wetlands, or lakes on the subject parcel(s) or within two hundred feet (200').
This section is not intended to be a comprehensive outline of requirements of
section 11-3-29, “Water Quality Protection,” of this code, but is merely
intended to provide basic information on the general requirement for lots
proposed for development within a subdivision.
   B.   All lots within the proposed subdivision must comply with the water
quality protection regulations prior to filing a final plat. This compliance
will not expire unless the conditions or location of the proposed use of the
property have changed.
   C.   Land restricted from development within water quality protection areas
or associated buffers may, at the discretion of the city council, be used to
meet park land dedication requirements or open space other than for active
recreation.
   D.   Buffers and setbacks for streams, wetlands, and lakes are established
by section
11-3-29, “Water Quality Protection,” of this code.
   E.   Land located wholly within a wetland, or its buffer may not be
subdivided into a lot. Land located partially within a wetland, or its buffer
may be divided provided each resulting lot has sufficient buildable area
outside of and will not affect the wetland or its buffer.
   F.   Density will be calculated based on the gross acreage of the site.
Where development is partly prohibited due to the presence of water quality
protection areas, the subdivider may be permitted to transfer up to one hundred
percent (100%) of the density attributable to the undevelopable area of the
property to another portion of the same property, where the planning director
and community development board finds it is consistent with the city-county
growth policy and section
11-3-29, “Water Quality Protection,” of this code.
(Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
12-4-8: FLOODPLAIN PROVISIONS:
Land located in the floodway of a 100-year flood frequency as defined by title
76, chapter 5, Montana Code Annotated, or land deemed subject to flooding as
delineated by the most current floodplain maps available and adopted by the
city of Whitefish, or land determined by the city of Whitefish to be subject to
flooding, must not be subdivided for building or residential purposes, or
proposed for other uses that may increase the danger to life, health or
property caused by flooding or increase flood hazards. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009;
amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-9: HIGH GROUNDWATER:
   A.   Applicability: All properties proposed for subdivision and located
within or draining to, a drainage problem area as recognized by the City
Engineer, or within areas mapped by the city as having potential for high
groundwater must monitor groundwater pursuant to the requirements in the
current city of Whitefish engineering standards during seasonal high
groundwater (March 15 through June 30).
   B.   Plat Warning: If the adjusted high groundwater level is determined to
be within six feet (6') of the ground surface level, this data and a statement
that basements and crawl spaces are not recommended must be provided on the
face of the final plat. (Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-10: GEOTECHNICAL REVIEW; SITE CHARACTERIZATION:
   A.   All properties proposed for subdivision with slopes greater than ten
percent (10%) must conduct a geotechnical reconnaissance for planned
development and site work. This report must be completed by a professional
engineer with geotechnical practice and must be submitted with the preliminary
plat application. This report must identify:
      1.   Areas of geologic concerns within the boundaries of the development.
      2.   Proposed lots falling into two (2) categories:
         a.   Lots that need no further geotechnical review; or
         b.   Lots that need to complete a geotechnical letter, in compliance
with section 11-3-29, "Water Quality Protection", of this code.
      3.   A risk map must also be submitted with the report as an overlay onto
the proposed subdivision layout and highlight the two (2) categories of lots.
   B.   Lots that need additional geotechnical analysis at the time of building
permit must be identified on the face of the plat or a separate recorded
document. See appendix D on file in the city for the appropriate note(s). (Ord.
12-04, 2-6-2012; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-11: PARK LAND AND OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
Park and open space requirements must comply with the requirements of the
Montana subdivision and platting act and further the goals and policies of the
Whitefish city-county growth policy and the park board.
   A.   Formula To Determine Park Dedication Requirements: Park dedication
requirements must be based on the net acreage of the subdivision. The area
provided for the park requirement must be land either dedicated to the city of
Whitefish as a park or open space area for public use; retained as a common
area, homeowners' park or open space area privately owned and maintained; or
land designated as a conservation easement managed by a qualified entity.
Privately owned parks, open space or common areas may not have a change in use
without the approval of the property owners within the subdivision and city
council. Except as provided in this chapter, a subdivider must be subject to
the following park land or cash equivalent according to the following formula:
      1.   Eleven percent (11%) of the net acreage of the subdivision to be
divided into lots one-half (1/2) acre and smaller;
      2.   Seven and a half percent (7.5%) of the net acreage of the
subdivision to be divided into lots larger than one-half (1/2) acre and not
larger than one acre in size;
      3.   Five percent (5%) of the combined area of the net acreage of the
subdivision into lots larger than one acre and not larger than three (3) acres
in size;
      4.   Two and a half percent (2.5%) of the net acreage of the subdivision
to be divided into lots larger than three (3) acres and not larger than five
(5) acres in size.
   B.   Suitable Locations For Parks, Open Space, Common Areas: The city
council, in consultation with the subdivider, planning board and park board,
may determine suitable locations for parks, open space and/or common areas.
When a combination of land and cash donation is required, the cash donation may
not be required to exceed the proportional amount covered by the land donation.
   C.   Exemptions: Park dedication is not to be required for:
      1.   Subdivisions with lots that have an average density of five (5)
acres or more in size;
      2.   A first minor subdivision from a tract of record outside the city
limits;
      3.   Nonresidential lots or subdivisions;
      4.   Planned unit developments or other developments which propose lands
permanently set aside for park and recreation purposes to meet the needs of the
persons who ultimately reside in the development and equals or exceeds the
dedication requirements of subsection A of this section;
      5.   A subdivision where only one additional lot is created;
      6.   Where a subdivision provides for long term protection of an area
identified as a water quality protection area under section 11-3-29, "Water
Quality Protection", of this code, important wildlife habitat; significant
cultural, historical or natural resources; agricultural interests or aesthetic
values and the land area equals or exceeds the dedication requirements of
subsection A of this section; and
      7.   The subdivider proposes land outside of the subdivision to be set
aside for park and recreation purposes adequate to provide a significant
recreational amenity to the public and will meet or exceed the park
requirements outlined in subsection A of this section.
   D.   Park And Open Space Design Standards:
      1.   Land proposed for park development, whether public or private, must
strive to provide recreational opportunities and serve the public or residents
of the subdivision in a meaningful way. The land must be of appropriate shape,
size and location and must have convenient access and parking to meet the needs
of the public or residents of the subdivision.
      2.   If the park is proposed to be dedicated to the city for public use,
the park area must not be less than one acre in size unless the land is
immediately adjacent to an existing or planned future park area in order to
allow the city to maintain the park in an efficient and cost effective way.
Parks to be dedicated to the city must first be reviewed by the Park Board and,
upon the Board's recommendation, approved by City Council.
      3.   If a park is proposed to be privately owned and maintained, it must
be a minimum of ten thousand (10,000) square feet and must be developed with
recreational opportunities such as play areas, picnic tables, gazebos, walking
trails or other acceptable improvements which fulfill the intent of this
section. It may also be developed as a micropark as described in subsection D5
of this section.
      4.   If the required park land dedication is less than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet, unless the land is immediately adjacent to an existing or
planned future park area or is developed as a micropark, it is considered an
inappropriate size and the city will request cash in lieu of park land
dedication pursuant to subsection E of this section.
      5.   A micropark must be preapproved by the parks and recreation
department and park board and must meet the following:
         a.   It must be open to the public, enhance an existing public
facility and be consistent with the park board long term plans for the
facility. It may be located adjacent to an existing sidewalk, bike trail or
other public facility and may provide a focal point for a neighborhood.
         b.   The long-term maintenance of the facility must be carefully
weighed by the city and the park board when considering the location and
amenities of a micropark.
         c.   A micropark will be distinctive, unique and usable. As such, it
will be constructed with unique materials and could include amenities such as:
street furniture (a bench, a landscaping wall for seating, a drinking fountain
or a bike rack), a work of art, an information kiosk, a share library, or a
SNOW bus shelter, if in a location identified as a stop or future stop,
consistent with all other city amenities in brand, style, color, size, and
shape.
         d.   A micropark and its improvements may either be dedicated to the
city or have an easement for long term public use.
         e.   The city must not require improvements to a micropark to exceed
that which would be required through a cash in lieu of land dedication. This
also includes the value of the land.
      6.   If the park or open space area is to be developed and used for
property owners or residents within a subdivision or development, it must be
owned and maintained by the property owners of the subdivision through a common
area maintenance agreement that outlines a pro rata share of the cost of
maintenance. At the time of final plat submittal, a five (5) year maintenance
bond for ten percent (10%) of the improvements must be provided to ensure the
long term maintenance of the park or open space area.
      7.   Although not specifically required, nonresidential subdivisions are
encouraged to incorporate open space, common area or a park within the
development consistent with section 11-3-43: Mixed-Use and Non-Residential
Building Development Standards of the zoning code. This may be in the form of
pedestrian connections, a central park area, a plaza or any other form of open
space designed to meet the needs of the users of the development.
      8.   Subdivisions located adjacent to rivers, streams, lakes and publicly
accessed lands are strongly encouraged to be designed to provide reasonable
public access to these areas.
      9.   Existing trees and significant vegetation must be maintained in open
space areas unless an alternate landscaping plan for such areas is submitted
and approved or unless planned active recreational activities would conflict
with existing vegetation. In case of conflicts with planned activities, the
design should maintain a balance, as determined by the city, where it maximizes
active recreation opportunities while trying to maintain the most important
elements of native vegetation.
      10.   Land proposed to be developed as a park and/or for recreational
opportunities should be designed with the following standards as a guideline:
         a.   Park areas must be placed in consideration of existing and
potential parks and open space areas on adjacent parcels to provide
consolidation or opportunities for future consolidation of parks or open space
areas;
         b.   Parks or open space must be located within the subdivision or
neighborhood where it can be easily expanded and accessed by streets, bikeways
or pedestrian paths;
         c.   The park area must be landscaped, irrigated and developed in such
a way to provide a recreational amenity to the public or the residents of the
subdivision;
         d.   The preservation of important natural elements such as a meadow,
a grove of trees, a wildlife corridor, a stream or other water body, a hillside
or steep slope, an area of riparian resource or some other natural feature;
         e.   Stormwater management facilities in park and open space areas may
be acceptable provided they are incorporated as a natural feature within the
park area and do not exceed one-third (1/3) of the area dedicated as a park or
open space;
         f.   A site for active recreation on slopes which average three
percent (3%) or less. Grade standards will vary depending on the use proposed;
         g.   Where appropriate, open spaces intended for recreational or
public use must be easily accessible to pedestrians and meets the special needs
of people with disabilities, children and the elderly;
         h.   When open space or a general common area is being used to meet
park dedication requirements, the open space must remain in a substantially
natural state when it has been dedicated for preservation or conservation
purposes. Bike or pedestrian trail connections using open space designations,
as appropriate and practical, are encouraged;
         i.   Linear parks that serve as pedestrian paths or trail systems
within the subdivision or that will provide a connection to adjacent properties
for the future continuation of the path or trail. A linear park should be a
minimum of thirty feet (30') wide that incorporates a bike/pedestrian path with
a minimum width as defined in the current city engineering standards,
landscaping, a slope of less than six percent (6%) and affords easy access by
the residents of the subdivision or the public, and should provide for the
extension of an existing or future trail;
         j.   Parking areas and rights of way located within the open space
area must count toward the required open space/park requirements if they are
provided for access and use of the open space or common area;
         k.   In general, public and private parks require four (4) dedicated
parking spaces per acre of usable park area within close proximity to the park
land in order to provide reasonable access;
         l.   Other parks, open space, or common area designs which meet the
intent of this section and meet the goals adopted for neighborhood parks and
open space, and area plans.
   E.   Cash In Lieu Of Park Land:
      1.   Where, because of size, topography, shape, location, or other
circumstances, the dedication of land for parks and playgrounds is undesirable,
the city may make an order to be endorsed and certified on the plat accepting a
cash donation in lieu of the dedication of land that would have been dedicated.
For the purpose of this chapter, the fair market value is the value of
undivided, unimproved land at the time of final plat submittal.
      2.   It is the responsibility of the subdivider to provide satisfactory
evidence of the fair market value. The fair market value is the appraised land
value as determined by the state of Montana department of revenue for the most
current tax year at the time of final plat submittal. For property being
appraised by the state of Montana as agricultural or forest land, the applicant
must submit an appraisal no more than sixty (60) days old with the final plat
application for the purpose of determining fair market value.
      3.   The city will use the dedicated money to acquire, develop or
maintain within its jurisdiction parks or recreational areas or for the
purchase of public open space or conservation easements only if:
         a.   The park, recreational area, open space or conservation easement
is within a reasonably close proximity to the proposed subdivision, as may be
further defined in an adopted city policy;
         b.   A park plan has been formally adopted that establishes the needs
and procedures for the use of the money.
      4.   The city may not use more than fifty percent (50%) of the dedicated
money for park maintenance, as defined in an adopted city policy. (Ord. 09-23,
11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 15-19, 1-4-2016; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-
2021)
12-4-12: LOTS:
Each lot must contain a satisfactory building site which is properly located to
topography and conforms to applicable ordinances and policies adopted by the
city of Whitefish, including, but not limited to, zoning and floodplain
ordinances, these regulations and the Montana department of environmental
quality standards. At a minimum, proposed lots must meet the following general
standards:
   A.   Each lot must have its clearing limits designated on the face of the
plat, in addition to the tree protection areas described in section 12-4-5. The
purpose of the clearing limits is intended to be the area on a proposed lot
where all development will occur, including the construction of the home, any
accessory buildings, and the driveway. The size and type of homes to be built
within the subdivision needs to be considered when identifying the clearing
limits. In no case may the clearing limits be less than two thousand (2,000)
square feet and no part of the entire clearing limits may contain a slope
greater than thirty percent (30%) on existing undisturbed terrain. Each
building site must be accessible by a minimum of a ten-foot (10') wide driveway
with a maximum nine percent (9%) slope. All lots within a subdivision will be
compliant with section 11-3-29, “Water Quality Protection,” of this code
provided construction of the lot is in substantial compliance with the
information submitted and approved with the preliminary plat. Construction
outside the clearing limits is not permitted without full compliance with the
tree preservation plan and water quality protection regulations in effect at
the time of building permit.
   B.   In areas with defined ridgelines, a ridgeline protection area must be
identified on the final plat and development restricted. (See appendix L,
"Ridgeline Protection Zone", attached to the ordinance codified herein.)
   C.   Lots will generally be rectangular in shape.
   D.   Side lot lines will be substantially right angles to street or road
centerlines and radial to curved street or road centerlines.
   E.   Through lots or reverse lots are prohibited except where essential to
provide separation of residential development from traffic arteries or to
overcome specific topographic or orientation difficulties.
   F.   Each single-family lot must abut and have a minimum twenty foot (20')
wide access to a public or private street or road in compliance with these
regulations.
   G.   Corner lots must have a driveway access to the same street or road as
interior lots and must have sufficient area to provide acceptable sight
distance for traffic safety. Single-family lots must not have direct access
onto collectors or arterials.
   H.   Flag lots are allowed with a creative design in either infill
subdivisions or new subdivisions provided adjoining flag lots share driveways
that meet fire department access standards and the lots comprise no more than
fifty percent (50%) of the total lots within the subdivision.
   I.   Lots intended for two-unit townhouses, triplexes, fourplexes or multi-
family structures must consider the design of the homes to avoid a garage
forward design. The use of garage forward two-unit townhouses, triplexes,
fourplexes and multi-family structures, are not allowed.
   J.   Each multi-family (triplex and up) lot must abut and access to a public
or private street in compliance with section
11-6-8 of these regulations.
   K.   A planting screen easement a minimum width of twenty feet (20'), across
which there may be no right of way access, must be provided along the line of
lots abutting a traffic artery, other disadvantageous situations, or
noncompatible use as deemed necessary by the planning director. Existing
suitable vegetation may also be utilized to meet this requirement.
   L.   No single lot will be divided by a municipal boundary line.
   M.   Lots must be numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision. Phases
and blocks may also be used as a part of a numbering system. (Ord. 09-23, 11-
16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-
2023)
12-4-13: BLOCKS:
Each block must conform to the following:
   A.   Blocks must be designed to assure traffic safety and ease of traffic
control and circulation, to accommodate the special needs of the use
contemplated and to take advantage of the limitations and opportunities of the
topography.
   B.   Block lengths must be not less than three hundred feet (300') nor more
than one thousand two hundred feet (1,200').
   C.   Blocks must be wide enough to allow for two (2) tiers of lots except
where essential to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arteries or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
   D.   Rights of way for pedestrian access, not less than fifteen feet (15')
wide, must be required when deemed appropriate to provide access to common
facilities such as parks, playgrounds, streams and lakes, or through long
blocks. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-
2021)
12-4-14: ACCESS:
   A.   Each lot must abut and have physical and legal access to a public or
private street or road constructed to city standards. The use of alleys and
emergency access roads as the primary means of access to a lot may be
considered with an innovative design. An access plan must be provided with the
engineering plans submittal.
   B.   Easements as the primary means of access may be considered on a case by
case basis for infill single-family subdivisions with no more than two (2)
units.
   C.   Where access to the subdivision will be by an easement across privately
owned property, the subdivider must provide evidence the necessary easement has
been acquired and the easement encompasses the nature and intensity of the use
which will result from development of the subdivision.
   D.   Access driveways are defined as an access serving one or two lots and
not more than three dwellings. Accesses serving more than two lots and three
dwellings are considered roads and must be built to the standards required in
the current city of Whitefish engineering standards.
   E.   Any public or private street or road providing ingress and egress to a
subdivision must comply with the current city of Whitefish engineering
standards unless otherwise determined by the city council to be unwarranted.
   F.   No subdivision or other residential neighborhood is permitted to gate
its streets off from public access. No features, temporary or otherwise, may
give the impression to the public of a gated neighborhood.
   G.   Multiple accesses into a subdivision may be required when one or more
of the following considerations are present:
      1.   Where the primary access road is over one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') long.
      2.   Where a primary access road is one thousand (1,000) to one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') long and it serves or will serve at least twenty
(20) residential lots or forty (40) residential dwelling units.
      3.   Where safe and convenient access and emergency vehicle circulation
dictate.
   H.   Multiple accesses into a subdivision in high fire hazard areas may be
required when:
      1.   The primary access is over one thousand feet (1,000') long, or
      2.   The primary access road is seven hundred fifty (750) to one thousand
feet (1,000') long and it serves fifteen (15) residential lots or thirty (30)
dwelling units.
      3.   Where safe and convenient access and emergency vehicle circulation
dictate.
      4.   Where multiple accesses are required, a loop drive, with one access
point, will not qualify as providing additional, secondary or emergency access.
   I.   A separate pedestrian and/or bicycle access must be installed to
connect the neighborhood to an adjacent neighborhood, trail system, park or
arterial street when a direct vehicular access will not be used. All sidewalks
and trails must be constructed according to the current city of Whitefish
engineering standards. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord.
21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-15: STREETS AND ROADS:
   A.   All public and private roadway improvements including pavement, curbs,
gutters, and drainage systems must be constructed in accordance with the
current city of Whitefish engineering standards. The specific design standards
associated with right of way, roadway width, alignment, grade and other
elements of the road and street design standards contained in the current city
of Whitefish engineering standards are made part of this chapter.
   B.   Subdivisions generating two hundred (200) or more new vehicle trips per
day to the city street system must have a traffic impact study (TIS) as
required by the current city of Whitefish engineering standards, stamped and
submitted by a professional engineer experienced in the area of traffic. The
TIS is required to be part of a complete application.
   C.   Residential driveways must not have direct access to arterial streets
or state or federal highways unless no other alternatives are available. In
such cases, appropriate improvements may be required in order to mitigate
potential impacts. Encroachment permit from county, state or federal government
will be required.
   D.   Collector streets must be designed to afford easy access to arterial or
other collector streets for street connectivity to adjoining areas where
appropriate. It is anticipated these streets will be provided in the urban core
areas of the city.
   E.   When a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the subdivider must provide a frontage road or other treatment
necessary to separate arterial and local traffic. Landscape buffering,
vegetative plantings or other means of screening may be required in residential
subdivisions abutting arterial streets or highways. See subsection 12-4-12K of
this chapter.
   F.   Dead end streets are not permitted. Cul-de-sacs are only allowed in
circumstances when there are no apparent opportunities for future connection or
when the subdivision is outside of an established or future grid street system
pursuant to an adopted transportation plan. Cul-de-sacs must comply with the
requirements outlined in the current city of Whitefish engineering standards.
Pedestrian and/or bicycle connectivity will be considered, where appropriate.
See subsections 12-4-14G and 12-4-14I of this chapter.
   G.   Where a future street extension is proposed, a temporary cul-de-sac of
adequate size as approved by the fire chief, or designee and city engineer must
be provided and signed as a 'Future Street Connection.'
   H.   'T' turnarounds in lieu of cul-de-sacs function poorly for the Fire
Department and are discouraged in residential subdivisions. A 'T' turnaround
must be approved by the City Council through a subdivision variance and must
comply with the adopted Fire Code.
   I.   When a new subdivision road adjoins land anticipated for future
development, a future right of way or roadway easement will be required
providing for the future extension and connections of the roadways. The roadway
shall be extended to the edge of the property and signed indicating the roadway
is a "Future Street Connection".
   J.   Half streets are prohibited.
   K.   Streetlight and street tree installation is required on all streets
within the subdivision pursuant to sections 12-4-22 and 12-4-23 of this
chapter.
   L.   Street or road signs and traffic control devices of the size, shape and
height as approved by the city engineer must be placed at all intersections by
the developer. Traffic control devices must be consistent with the latest
edition of "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", as adopted by the state
of Montana and must be of a fire-resistant material and be reflective.
   M.   Engineering plan set must include a sheet showing the location of
future driveways in relation to intersections, crosswalks, streetlights, trees,
and fire hydrants. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-
15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-16: ALLEYS:
   A.   Alleys may be required by the city council and may be either public or
private, as approved by the city council.
   B.   Alleys, if provided, must have a minimum twenty feet (20') of right of
way and must comply with the current city of Whitefish engineering standards.
Alleys are not the preferred method for primary access to lots within a
subdivision but may be looked at on a case-by-case basis with a creative
design.
   C.   When alleys are provided with the development, primary motor vehicle
access and off-street parking must be from the rear yard.
   D.   In areas where the development pattern includes alleys, the developer
may be required to continue the circulation pattern, inclusive of alley
construction. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-15,
9-20-2021)
12-4-17: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   All developments must have delineated sidewalks to allow pedestrians to
safely travel from any part of the development to the boundaries of the
development. Developments abutting existing or proposed roadways will be
required to have sidewalks within the public right of way parallel to the
roadways. Sidewalks identified within the adopted transportation plan will be
required. The minimum width of a sidewalk must be five feet (5') and must be
constructed according to the current city of Whitefish engineering standards.
   B.   Unless approved by the city council, sidewalks are required on both
sides of public or private streets in all residential and commercial
subdivisions. Residential sidewalks must be separated from the street by a
boulevard or open space with a minimum width of six feet (6') with eight feet
(8') preferred for boulevard tree planting.
   C.   A cash in lieu of sidewalk installation payment to the city equivalent
to the cost of the sidewalks may be made at the discretion of the city council
in instances where actual sidewalk construction is determined to be premature.
   D.   A bike path/pedestrian path of greater width may be required in lieu of
sidewalk construction in areas where there is an existing path to provide an
extension or in an area identified by the Connect Whitefish Bicycle and
Pedestrian Master Plan. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012;
Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-18: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Water systems must meet all the requirements of the current city of
Whitefish engineering standards. Preliminary water utility layout current city
of must be submitted with the preliminary plat application.
   B.   No new wells are permitted on any property if an approved City water
main is readily available within two hundred feet (200 feet of the property as
described in the current city of Whitefish engineering standards.
   C.   Where the subdivision is within the service area of the city water
system, water systems must be designed, constructed, and tested in accordance
with the current editions of the Montana department of environmental quality
circulars, the "Montana Public Works Standard Specifications" and the current
city of Whitefish engineering standards. (Ord. 13-06, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. 21-
15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-19: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS AND SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS:
   A.   Where the subdivision is within the service area of the city sanitary
system, sanitary sewer systems must be designed, constructed, and tested in
accordance with the current editions of the Montana department of environmental
quality circulars, the "Montana Public Works Standard Specifications", and the
current city of Whitefish engineering standards.
   B.   All sewage treatment systems must comply with the Flathead city-county
health department and the Montana department of environmental quality.
Preliminary sewer utility layout must be submitted with the preliminary plat
application. If a public sewer system is proposed, the applicant must indicate
if it is subject to the jurisdiction of the public service commission. (Ord.
13-06, 10-7-2013; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-20: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   All subdivisions must be planned, designed, constructed, and maintained
to minimize the risk of fire and to permit effective access and water supply
and efficient suppression of fires. (International fire code.)
   B.   Building addresses must be clearly identified pursuant to the current
fire code, as adopted by the city council. A note must be placed on the face of
the final plat regarding addressing (see appendix D attached to the ordinance
codified herein). It is recommended the building addresses be constructed of a
reflective material.
   C.   'T' turnarounds function poorly for the Fire Department and are
discouraged in residential subdivisions. A 'T' turnaround must be approved by
the City Council through the subdivision variance and must comply with the
adopted Fire Code.
   D.   The City of Whitefish may impose additional requirements in the form of
conditions of approval or notes on the face of the plat which it may deem
necessary based on the consideration of size, location, density, and nature of
the subdivision for the purpose of fire safety. (Ord. 14-22, 1-5-2015; amd.
Ord. 21- 15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-21: SOLID WASTE DIVERSION, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   The subdivider must assure the provisions for collection of recyclable
materials, and the collection and disposal of solid waste meet the minimum
requirements of the city of Whitefish or its designee and the Montana
department of environmental quality.
   B.   The location and means for recyclable material collections and solid
waste collections and disposal must be subject to approval by the city engineer
and solid waste contract hauler.
   C.   If recyclables and solid waste are not collected using curbside pick up
for individual lots, the subdivider must provide an off street area for
recyclables and solid waste collection which will be aesthetically screened
from general public view and conveniently accessible to collection vehicles
subject to approval by the city engineer and the contract hauler for
recyclables and solid waste.
   D.   Subdivisions are subject to subsection 4-2-4A, “Animal Resistant
Containers,” of this code. In addition, a note must be placed on the face of
the plat (see Appendix D, attached to the ordinance codified herein). (Ord. 14-
22, 1-5-2015; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-22: BOULEVARD LANDSCAPING AND STREET TREES:
Boulevard landscaping and street trees are required on all public and private
streets unless otherwise proposed and approved by the city council. All
landscaping within the boulevard must conform to the current city of Whitefish
engineering standards for tree protection and planting requirements (Appendix P
in the 2019 standards) and Title 7, Chapter 5: Ground and Vegetation.
   A.   Prior to submittal of a final plat application, the subdivider must
submit a planting strip landscaping plan to the parks department for review and
approval. The landscape plan must include the planting strip width, soil
preparation, seeding or sodding, variety and spacing of street trees and a
maintenance plan. The approval letter from the parks director or designee must
be submitted with the final plat application.
   B.   Agreement For Planting Strip Landscaping And Street Tree Planting:
      1.   The subdivider may enter into an agreement with the city to cover
the necessary costs to cover the purchasing and planting of the trees,
placement of topsoil, planting strip prep and seeding. The city will perform
the actual work at the request of the current or future property owner. This
option is only available for trees on local access streets.
      2.   The actual costs for the materials and planting will be set on an
annual basis and generally established by contract bids. The costs may change
from year to year based on contractor competitive bids.
      3.   Planting will generally occur after the homeowner has purchased the
property and the home has been completed, thereby increasing the survival rate
of the landscaping and trees while also allowing the homeowner to approve the
location and species of tree(s). (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-
2012; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-23: STREET LIGHTING:
Street lighting must conform to the current city of Whitefish engineering
standards and outdoor lighting standards in the zoning code (section 11-3-25).
Decorative street lighting is required on all public and private streets, and
along shared use paths unless otherwise proposed and approved by the city
council. Streetlights must be installed concurrently with underground
utilities. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-15, 9-
20-2021)
12-4-24: MAIL FACILITIES:
A mail delivery site whether a common mail delivery site or an individual mail
delivery site must be provided with the preliminary plat as required by the
current city of Whitefish engineering standards. The location of the mail
facilities must be close to a streetlight. The ultimate design and location of
the mail facilities must be approved by the local postmaster of the U.S. postal
service prior to final plat submittal. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-
04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-25: STREET NAMING STANDARDS:
Street names must be assigned to new roads within a subdivision in accordance
with the street naming standards established by the city of Whitefish. All new
street names and addressing must be reviewed and approved by the office of the
Whitefish city clerk prior to final plat submittal. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009;
amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-26: DRAINAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   A preliminary drainage plan and report for the entire anticipated
development must be submitted with the preliminary plat which describes how the
project will meet water quality treatment and flow control requirements. The
preliminary drainage plan must include a topographical map showing all areas
draining onto the subdivision and enough of abutting downstream properties to
inform a down-gradient analysis. The direction of flow, acreage of areas
contributing drainage to the development, the site development footprint, and
location of streams or drainage courses which are within the site boundaries
shall be indicated on this plan.
   B.   Natural drainageways, referred to as critical stormwater conveyances in
the water quality protection regulations (section 11-3-29 in the Whitefish City
Code), must be preserved to ensure stormwater runoff continues to be conveyed
and disposed of at its natural location. New development must be designed to
protect existing natural drainage features that convey or store water or allow
it to infiltrate into the ground in its natural location. All proposed
construction projects must identify the presence of a natural drainageway
(critical conveyance).
   C.   Stormwater facilities must be designed as an amenity to the
neighborhood, have a natural shaped design and be landscaped.
   D.   The drainage system and facilities required for any surface runoff
affecting the subdivision must be prepared by a professional engineer and must
meet the current city of Whitefish engineering standards.
   E.   A parcel must be dedicated to the entity in charge of the maintenance
and operation of the drainage system, as specified in the current city of
Whitefish engineering standards, for the following:
      1.   Flow control and treatment facilities;
      2.   Facilities serving more than one commercial parcel or ownership;
      3.   Facilities associated with a stormwater system located outside a
public right of way but serving a residential development;
      4.   Draining ditches in residential neighborhoods.
   F.   Runoff discharged into a stream must meet the requirements of all
governmental agencies. All discharge permits must be obtained by the developer.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-27: GRADING PLANS:
A preliminary grading plan must be submitted along with the preliminary plat
application. To the greatest extent possible, the design of the site should
incorporate the natural topography. The grading plans must meet the
requirements of the most current city of Whitefish engineering standards and
accomplish the following:
   A.   Cut and fill slopes, and intersections of manufactured and natural
slopes must have curved configurations that reflect the forms and shapes of
surrounding topography.
   B.   Grading must incorporate elements to protect drainage systems. Natural
drainageways must be preserved.
   C.   Grading must integrate landscaping design to provide erosion protection
and prevent weed infestation to the site.
   D.   Where site grading is necessary, topsoil must be salvaged or imported
to redistribute on areas to be revegetated.
   E.   Any trees to be saved must be noted on the site plan and grading must
not take place inside the tree protection areas identified in the tree
preservation plan. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-
15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-28: EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL:
   A.   An erosion and sedimentation control plan (ESCP) must accompany the
road, drainage and grading plans and should be integrated into the grading plan
whenever possible. It must contain sufficient information to demonstrate to the
city engineer that potential problems associated with erosion, sediment, and
pollution have been adequately addressed for the proposed project. The drawings
and notes should be clear and concise and describe when and where each best
management practice is to be implemented.
   B.   The ESCP must be prepared by a professional with a good working
knowledge of hydrology and ESCP practices, in accordance with the current city
of Whitefish engineering standards and the Montana Department of Environmental
Quality standards, when applicable.
   C.   During the construction of improvements in the subdivision, the
subdivider shall be responsible for installing temporary erosion and
sedimentation control facilities to control surface runoff. The temporary
erosion and sedimentation control facilities must be part of the ESCP and shall
be reviewed and approved by the city engineer prior to any site disturbance or
construction.
   D.   The ESCP must include a plan for the revegetation and stabilization of
disturbed areas that includes a plan for ongoing control and management of
noxious weeds. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 21-15,
9-20-2021)
12-4-29: UTILITIES AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   All new utilities must be placed underground and shown on the
construction plans reviewed and approved by Public Works.
   B.   Easements for public utilities which cross private property must be
delineated and dedicated as described in the current city of Whitefish
engineering standards.
   C.   Only water, sanitary sewer, storm sewers and street lighting elements
may be placed within the street right of way. No underground utilities, except
service sweeps from the utility trench to utility boxes, pedestals, vaults, or
transformers may be placed in the planting strip between the back of curb and
sidewalk or within a sidewalk itself. No utility boxes, pedestals, vaults, or
transformers may be placed within the boulevard, the radial extension of an
easement, proposed roadway, accessway to any city facility, or within ten feet
(10') of fire hydrants or curb boxes unless approved by the public works
department.
   D.   There must be reserved along the front lot line and side street lot
line of each residential lot a ten foot (10') wide utility easement along,
contiguous and adjacent to the lot line to provide an area between the sidewalk
and easement line for the placement of privately owned underground utilities,
including power, phone, gas, cable, etc. No private utilities may be located in
water or sewer trenches. Utilities must maintain a minimum of five feet (5') of
undisturbed soil between water or sewer utility trenches.
   E.   Utility lines must be designed by a professional engineer or by the
utility firms in cooperation with the subdivider. All applicable laws, rules
and regulations of appropriate regulatory authority having jurisdiction over
such facilities must be observed.
   F.   If television, telephone, or natural gas is not installed at the time
of development, provisions must be made for installation at a later date
without the cutting of paved roadways or sidewalks.
   G.   In addition to showing the location of the utility easements on the
plat an easement statement must appear on the final plat with the developer's
signature. See Appendix G, attached to the ordinance codified herein, for the
required statement. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord.
21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-30: NOXIOUS WEEDS:
Noxious weeds must be controlled, and their spread prevented as directed by
Title 4, Chapter 3 - Weeds of this Code in accordance with the Montana County
Noxious Weed Control Act which indicates every owner of land within the city
limits must take steps to eradicate noxious weeks on that land. The developer
must have any noxious weeds identified and their location mapped by a person
with experience in weed management and knowledgeable in weed identification. A
noxious weed management and revegetation plan approved by the Planning Director
or designee for control of noxious weeds must be submitted with the preliminary
plat application. This plan must ensure the control of existing noxious weeds
upon preliminary plat approval and the revegetation of any land disturbed
during the construction of subdivision improvements. The plan must also
indicate measures proposed to prevent introducing new noxious weeds to the site
during construction. This may include use of certified weed-free seed for areas
of revegetation and avoiding spread of noxious weeds by cleaning machinery and
vehicles that have come into contact with noxious weeds before they are
transported to a new site. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012;
Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-4-31: AFFORDABLE HOUSING:
Affordable housing may be provided through the Whitefish Legacy Homes Program
title 11, chapter 1A of this Code. (Ord. 19-11, 6-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 8-
16-2021; Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
CHAPTER 5
EXEMPTIONS AND EVASION CRITERIA
SECTION:
12-5-1: Purpose
12-5-2: Divisions Of Land Exempt From Subdivision Review And Evasion Criteria
12-5-3: Divisions Of Land Exempt From Review But Subject To Survey Requirements
And Zoning Regulations
12-5-4: Procedures For Review Of Subdivision Exemptions
12-5-5: Evasion Review Criteria For Subdivision Exemptions
12-5-6: Remaining Parcels Of Land
12-5-1: PURPOSE:
The MSPA provides that certain divisions of land, which would otherwise
constitute subdivisions, are exempt from local subdivision review and approval,
unless the use of the exemption is an attempt to evade the MSPA. The exemptions
are found in part 2 of title 76, chapter 3, Montana Code Annotated. (Ord. 09-
23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
12-5-2: DIVISIONS OF LAND EXEMPT FROM SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND EVASION CRITERIA:
   A.   Unless the method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of evading
these regulations or the MSPA, the requirements of these regulations and the
Montana subdivision and platting act may not apply when:
      1.   A division of land is created by order of any court of record in
this state or by operation of law or that, in the absence of agreement between
the parties to the sale, could be created by an order of any court in the state
pursuant to the law of eminent domain, title 70, chapter 30, Montana Code
Annotated;
         a.   An exempt division of land created by court order is not
considered a subdivision under 76 3 201(1)(a), MCA, if not more than four lots
of parcels are created from the original lot or parcel;
         b.   Before a court of record orders a division of land, the court
must notify the governing body of the pending division and allow the governing
body to present written comment on the division.
      2.   A division of land is created to provide security for mortgages,
liens, or trust indentures for the purpose of construction, improvements to the
land being divided, or refinancing purposes; the exemption applies:
         a.   To a division of land of any size;
         b.   If the land divided is conveyed only to the financial or lending
institution to which the mortgage, lien, or trust indenture was given or to a
purchaser upon foreclosure of the mortgage, lien, or trust indenture;
         c.   To a parcel created to provide security. The remainder of the
tract of land is subject to the provisions of this title, if applicable.
      3.   A division of land creates an interest in oil, gas, minerals, or
water that is severed from the surface ownership of real property;
      4.   A division of land creates cemetery lots;
      5.   A division of land is created by the reservation of a life estate;
      6.   A division of land is created by lease or rental for farming and
agricultural purposes;
      7.   A division of land is in a location over which the state does not
have jurisdiction;
      8.   A division of land is created for public rights of way or public
utility sites;
      9.   The land upon which an improvement is situated has been subdivided
in compliance with these regulations and the Montana subdivision and platting
act, the sale, rent, lease, or other conveyance of one or more parts of a
building, structure, or other improvement situated on one or more parcels of
land is not a division of land;
      10.   Condominiums or conversions of existing structures to condominiums
constructed on land subdivided in compliance with parts 5 and 6 of the MSPA or
on lots within incorporated cities and towns are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter if either:
         a.   The approval of the original division of land expressly
contemplated the construction of the condominiums or conversions of existing
structures to condominiums and any applicable park dedication requirements in
76-3-621, Montana Code Annotated, is complied with; or
         b.   The condominium or conversions of existing structures to
condominiums proposal is in conformance with applicable zoning regulations
pertaining to land use, density, bulk and dimensional requirements, landscaping
and parking requirements;
      Once a complete application is received by the planning department, a
determination of exemption must be made within twenty (20) working days and
additional review or conditions of approval may not be imposed.
      11.   The creation of sublots for townhouses constructed on land already
subdivided in compliance with parts 5 and 6 of the MSPA or on lots within
incorporated cities and town are exempt from the provisions of this chapter if
either:
         a.   The approval of the original division of land expressly
contemplated further division into sublots and construction of the townhouses,
and any applicable park dedication requirements in 76 3 621, Montana Code
Annotated, is complied with; or
         b.   The creation of sublots and the proposal for townhouses is in
conformance with applicable zoning regulations pertaining to land use, density,
bulk and dimensional requirements, landscaping and parking requirements
      Once a complete application received by the planning department, a
determination of exemption must be made within twenty (20) working days and
additional review, or conditions of approval may not be imposed.
      12.   The sale, rent, lease, or other conveyance of one or more parts of
a building, structure, or other improvement, whether existing or proposed, is
not a division of land;
      13.   A division of land created by lease or rental of contiguous airport
related land owned by a city, county, the state, or a municipal or regional
airport authority provided that the lease or rental is for on-site weather or
air navigation facilities, the manufacture, maintenance, and storage of
aircraft, or air carrier related activities;
      14.   A division of state-owned land unless the division creates a second
or subsequent parcel from a single tract for sale, rent, or lease for
residential purposes after July 1, 1974;
      15.   Deeds, contracts, leases, or other conveyances which were executed
prior to July 1, 1974. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021;
Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023)
12-5-3: DIVISIONS OF LAND EXEMPT FROM REVIEW BUT SUBJECT TO SURVEY REQUIREMENTS
AND ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the following
divisions of land are not subdivisions under the MSPA or these regulations, but
are subject to the surveying requirements of title 76, chapter 3, part 401,
Montana Code Annotated, for divisions of land not amounting to subdivisions and
are subject to applicable zoning regulations adopted under title 76, chapter 2,
Montana Code Annotated:
      1.   Divisions made outside of platted subdivisions for the purpose of
relocating common boundary lines between adjoining properties;
      2.   Divisions made outside of platted subdivisions for the purpose of a
single gift or sale in each county to each member of the landowner's immediate
family;
      3.   Divisions made outside of platted subdivisions by gift, sale, or
agreement to buy and sell in which the parties to the transaction enter a
covenant running with the land and revocable only by mutual consent of the
governing body and the property owner that the divided land will be used
exclusively for agricultural purposes;
      4.   For five (5) or fewer lots within a platted subdivision, the
relocation of common boundaries;
      5.   Divisions made for the purpose of relocating a common boundary line
between a single lot within a platted subdivision and adjoining land outside a
platted subdivision. A restriction or requirement on the original platted lot
or original unplatted parcel continues to apply to those areas; and
      6.   Aggregation of parcels or lots when a certificate of survey or
subdivision plat shows the boundaries of the original parcels have been
eliminated and the boundaries of a larger aggregate lot are established. A
restriction or requirement on the original platted lot or original unplatted
parcel continue to apply to those areas.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section:
      1.   Within a platted subdivision filed with Flathead County clerk and
recorder, a division of lots that results in an increase in the number of lots
or that redesigns or rearranges six (6) or more lots must be reviewed and
approved by the governing body and an amended plat must be filed with the
county clerk and recorder.
      2.   If a division within a platted subdivision is exempt from additional
subdivision reviews and is subject to applicable zoning regulations, unless the
method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of evading this chapter, if
the division:
         a.   Is within a subdivision that has been approved by a local
government body;
         b.   Creates parcels of a size allowed within the subdivision; and
         c.   Is gifted or sold to a member of the landowner's immediate
family,
   An amended plat must be filed with the county clerk and recorder after a
division provided above occurs and all previously approved conditions of
approval for the subdivision apply.
      3.   A division of land exempted under subsection A2 that is also located
in a zoning district is allowed if each family transfer parcel created by the
division is at least five (5) acres, unless the zoning district allows for
smaller lot sizes; and
      4.   A division of land transferred to an immediate family member
pursuant to subsection A2 or A3 may be transferred regardless of age and may be
owned jointly with that immediate family member's spouse.
   C.   The city council may examine a division of land within twenty (20)
working days to determine whether or not the requirements of these regulations
apply to the division and may establish a review fee not to exceed four hundred
dollars ($400.00) for the examination and may not impose conditions on the
approval of a division or aggregation of land under this section except for
conditions necessary to ensure compliance with the survey requirements of Title
76, chapter 3, part 4.
   D.   An immediate family member or spouse of an immediate family member who
receives a division of land pursuant to subsections A2 or A3 may not transfer
or otherwise convey the division of land for a period of up to two (2) years
after the date of the division unless the governing body authorizes a variance
from this requirement.
   E.   If a governing body can prove by documented evidence in court of
competent jurisdiction that a person has knowingly evaded subdivision
regulations through the use of subsection A2 or A3, that person is subject to a
civil penalty of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for each division of land,
payable to the governing body. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-
2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023)
12-5-4: PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION EXEMPTIONS:
Any person seeking exemption from the requirements of these regulations and the
MSPA must submit to the planning director a paper copy of a certificate of
survey, or if a survey is not required, an instrument of conveyance and a
completed subdivision exemption affidavit which provides evidence of
entitlement to the claimed exemption. The affidavit must be filed with the
certificate of survey, unless otherwise not required, creating the parcel(s)
subject to exemption:
   A.   Prior to submittal of the certificate of survey to the Flathead County
clerk and recorder, a complete application, including the survey, must be
reviewed within twenty (20) working days by the planning director for
compliance with the Whitefish zoning jurisdiction regulations and applicable
development standards. Existing buildings and structures must be indicated on
the certificate of survey along with the building setbacks from property
boundaries, existing and proposed land areas within the parcels or lots and any
other relevant information related to the property.
      1.   For purpose of zoning compliance review, where two (2) contiguous
lots, parcels or tracts of record are held in a common or single ownership, and
where both tracts of record are nonconforming, they must be considered as a
single site for the purpose of meeting the requirements of the zoning district
in which they are located. This section considers lots as merged for the
purposes of zoning regulation for size, setbacks or similar development
standards but does not aggregate individual parcels of land in a manner
described by section 76-3-103(17)(b), Montana Code Annotated.
      2.    Relocated or new property boundaries must not be located so
existing buildings or structures do not comply with the required setbacks of
the zoning district in which the properties are located. If existing buildings
are nonconforming with regard to setbacks, the relocated property boundary may
bring the building setback more in compliance and in no case will the relocated
or new property boundary create a setback which is less compliant with the
applicable zoning regulations.
      3.    Relocated or new property boundaries must not be established to
create parcels or lots not in compliance with the minimum lot size requirements
of the zoning district in which the properties are located.
      4.    A lot line adjustment between two (2) or more lots, parcels or
tracts of record where neither lot complies with the minimum area requirements
of the zoning district in which it is located may proceed with a lot line
adjustment provided the final lot area for each lot(s) remains the same and
neither lot(s) becomes more nonconforming with the underlying zoning standards.
      5.    Evidence of previous subdivision review and compliance with the
MSPA must be provided when an exemption is claimed for the creation of sublots
to construct townhouses and creation of sublots and townhouses is not in
conformance with applicable zoning regulations.
      6.   No conditions may be imposed on the approval of a division of land
under this section except for conditions necessary to ensure compliance with
the survey requirements of Title 76, chapter 3, part 4.
   B.   For those parcels for which an exemption from subdivision review is
claimed, a paper copy of the certificate of survey, in final form, and a
subdivision exemption affidavit signed by the property owner and the planning
director or designee must be submitted to the Flathead County clerk and
recorder for review.
   C.   If the Planning Department determines the claimed exemption may
constitute an evasion of the act under these regulations. The planning
department must notify the landowner in writing and the landowner may withdraw
the instrument or may request in writing within thirty (30) days of the date of
written notification to the landowner by the planning department requesting a
hearing before the city council.
   D.   If the Planning Department does not make such determination and the
instrument otherwise complies with all laws, the instrument is eligible for
recording.
   E.   Upon receipt of the written request for hearing, the council must set a
time and place for the hearing and inform the landowner thereof. The planning
department must provide an evaluation and recommendation on the subject
instrument. At the hearing, the landowner may present any additional evidence
in support of the claim of exemption. The council must approve or disapprove
the proposed exemption within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the request
for hearing. The council must provide written notification of its decision to
the landowner or surveyor and the county clerk and recorder. If the proposed
exemption is approved, the council must notify the county clerk and recorder
that the instrument is deemed not to be an evasion of the act or these
regulations. If the proposed exemption is disapproved, the council must
instruct the county clerk and recorder not to file the exemption instrument.
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023)
12-5-5: EVASION REVIEW CRITERIA FOR SUBDIVISION EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following criteria must be used to ensure exemptions are not
claimed for the purposes of evading this chapter or the MSPA. Appeals regarding
the final decision by the planning department about an evasion of the MSPA may
be taken in the manner established for administrative project decision appeals
as set forth in §
12-2-8.
      1.   For lots within a platted subdivision, relocation of common
boundaries or the aggregation of lots (MCA 76-3-207(1)(d)):
         a.   The proper use of the exemption for relocation of common
boundaries and/or aggregation of lots within platted subdivisions does not
increase the total number of lots within the subdivision. The plat must contain
the title "amended plat" and be filed with the county clerk and recorder.
         b.   The amended plat must be accompanied by:
            (1)   An original deed exchanging recorded interest from every
person having a recorded interest in adjoining properties for the entire newly
described parcel(s) which is acquiring land;
            (2)   Documentation showing the need or reason for the relocation
(for example: structure encroachment, surveyor error, or enhancement of the
property configuration); and
            (3)   The amended plat must bear the signatures of all landowners
whose parcels are changed by the relocation or aggregation. The amended plat
must show the exemption was used only to change the location of boundary lines
or aggregate lots and must clearly distinguish the prior boundary (dashed line)
from the new boundary (solid line).
         c.   An evasion of the MSPA may be presumed if either:
            (1)   The relocation crosses the boundary of a public or private
street right of way or the external boundary of the subdivision, or
            (2)   The relocation of common boundaries or aggregation of lots
results in an increase in the number of lots in the subdivision.
      2.   For division made outside of platted subdivisions for the purpose of
relocating common boundary lines between adjoining properties (MCA 76 3 207(1)
(a)):
         a.   The proper use of the exemption allowing for relocating common
boundary lines is to establish a new boundary between adjoining properties
outside of a platted subdivision without creating an additional parcel.
         b.   A certificate of survey for the relocation of common boundary
lines may include five or fewer parcels and/or lots.
         c.   Certificates of survey showing the relocation of common boundary
lines must be accompanied by:
            (1)   An original deed exchanging recorded interest from every
person having a recorded interest in adjoining properties for the entire newly
described parcel that is acquiring additional land;
            (2)   Documentation showing the need or reason for the relocation
(for example, structure encroachment, surveyor error, or enhancement of the
configuration of the property); and
            (3)   The certificate of survey must bear the signatures of all
landowners whose parcels are changed by the relocation, show the exemption was
used only to change the location of a boundary line dividing two parcels, and
clearly distinguish the existing boundary location with a dashed line and the
new boundary location with a solid line.
      3.   For divisions made for the purpose of relocating a common boundary
line between a single lot within a platted subdivision and adjoining land
outside a platted subdivision (MCA 76-3-207(1)(e)):
         a.   The proper use of the exemption for relocation of common
boundaries and/or aggregation of lots within platted subdivisions does not
increase the total number of lots within the subdivision. The plat must contain
the title “amended plat” and be filed with the country clerk and recorder.
         b.   A certificate of survey for the relocation of common boundary
lines may only include five or fewer parcels and/or lots.
         c.   Certificates of survey showing the relocation of common boundary
lines must be accompanied by:
            (1)   An original deed exchanging recorded interest from every
person having a recorded interest in adjoining properties for the entire newly
described parcel that is acquiring additional land;
            (2)   Documentation showing the need or reason for the relocation
(for example, structure encroachment, surveyor error, or enhancement of the
configuration of the property); and
            (3)   The certificate of survey must bear the signatures of all
landowners whose parcels are changed by the relocation, show the exemption was
used only to change the location of a boundary line dividing two parcels, and
clearly distinguish the prior boundary (dashed line) from the new boundary
(solid line).
         d.   An evasion of the MSPA may be presumed if:
            (1)   The planning department determines the documentation
submitted does not support the stated reason for relocation, or an additional
parcel is created.
            (2)   More than five parcels and/or lots are included.
      4.   For lots within a platted subdivision, divisions made for the
purpose of creating sublots on which to build townhouses subject to zoning
regulations (MCA 76-3-203):
         a.   The proper use of the exemption is to create sublots and
construct townhouses when the original division of land has already been
reviewed under the MSPA or the creation of sublots and townhouses is in
conformance with applicable zoning regulations. A restriction or requirement on
the original platted lot continues to apply to any sublots created.
         b.   An amended plat of the original subdivision showing the new
sublots must be filed and comply with the standards for final plats.
         c.   An evasion of the MSPA may be presumed if:
            (1)   The planning department determines the land in question was
not previously subdivided with review under the MSPA or
            (2)   The planning department determines the creation of sublots
and proposal for townhouses is not in conformance with the applicable zoning
regulations.
      5.   For division made outside of platted subdivisions for the purpose of
a single gift or sale in each county to each member of the landowner's
immediate family (MCA 76-3-207(1)(b)):
         a.   A member of the immediate family is the spouse of the grantor, or
whether by blood or adoption, a son, daughter, mother, or father of the grantor
and may be owned jointly with that immediate family member's spouse.
         b.   The proper use of the exemption as a gift or sale to a member of
the immediate family is to convey one parcel of land outside a platted
subdivision to each member of the landowner's immediate family in each county,
providing that the use of the exemption creates no more than one additional
parcel of less than one hundred and sixty (160) acres in size.
         c.   A certificate of survey for a family transfer may include more
than one exempt parcel if all parcels meet the criteria of this section.
         d.   Certificates of survey showing the creation of new parcels of
land pursuant to this exemption as a gift or sale to a member of the immediate
family must be accompanied by an original deed transferring interest in the
parcel being created, or a statement detailing where the deed is in escrow, how
long it will be in escrow, and authorization to contact the escrow agent for
verification.
         e.   The certificate of survey for an exemption for a family transfer
must indicate the name of the grantee, the relationship of the grantee to the
landowner, and the parcel to be conveyed to the grantee and that the parcel
will not be transferred or otherwise conveyed for a period of two (2) years.
         f.   An evasion of the MSPA may be presumed if one or more of the
following conditions exist:
            (1)   The exemption would create more than one additional parcel of
less than one hundred and sixty (160) acres.
            (2)   An immediate family member would receive more than one
exempted parcel in the county.
            (3)   The grantee is not an immediate family member of the
landowner.
      6.   For division made outside of platted subdivisions by gift, sale, or
an agreement to buy and sell in which the parties to the transaction enter a
covenant running with the land and revocable only by mutual consent of the city
and the property owner that the land will be used exclusively for agricultural
purposes (MCA 76-3-201(1)(c)):
         a.   No building or structure requiring water or sewer facilities may
be used on the parcel for which the exemption is claimed.
         b.   A change in use of the land for anything other than agricultural
purposes subjects the division to this chapter and review under Parts 5 and 6
of the MSPA.
         c.   An evasion of the MSPA may be presumed if either:
            (1)   A building or structure requiring water or sewer facilities
exists or is proposed for the exempted parcel.
            (2)   The use is not, or is changing to something other than,
agricultural.
      7.   For a division of land created to provide security for mortgages,
liens, or trust indentures for the purpose of construction, improvements to the
land being divided for refinancing purposes (MCA 76-3-201(1)(b)):
         a.   The proper use of the exemption is to provide security for
mortgages, liens, or trust indentures when a survey of the parcel has been
required.
         b.   When the security for construction financing exemption is to be
used, the landowner must submit, in addition to other documents that may be
required, a written statement explaining:
            (1)   Home many parcels within the original tract will be created
by use of the exemption;
            (2)   Who will have title to the remainder of the original parcel;
and
            (3)   A signed and notarized statement from a lending institution
that the creation of the exempted parcel is necessary to secure a construction
loan for buildings or other improvements on the parcel.
         c.   An evasion of the MSPA may be presumed under the following
conditions:
            (1)   The division of land is created for the purpose of conveyance
to any entity other than the financial or lending institution to which the
mortgage, lien, or trust indenture was given or to a purchaser upon foreclosure
of the mortgage, lien, or trust indenture; or
            (2)   The security is provided for construction or improvements on,
or refinancing for, land other than the exempted parcel. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-
2009; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023)
12-5-6: REMAINING PARCELS OF LAND:
   A.   Occasionally parcels of land are created after the rest of the land has
been subdivided or after an exemption is used to divide the land. The term
"remainder" was used to refer to that portion of an original tract which is not
itself created for transfer but which is left after other parcels are
segregated for transfer.
   B.   A "remainder" less than one hundred sixty (160) acres in size,
contiguous to a proposed subdivision, will be considered a lot in that
subdivision and will be reviewed as a lot within the subdivision. If an
exemption by a certificate of survey is used, the remaining tract of land must
be shown as a separate parcel which must be surveyed. (Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009;
amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-20-2021)
CHAPTER 6
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Terms Defined
12-6-1: TERMS DEFINED:
Whenever the following words or phrases appear in these regulations, they shall
be given meaning attributed to them by this section. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense shall include the future. The
singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.
The words "shall" and "must" are always mandatory, and the word "may" indicates
a use of discretion in making a decision.
                               Access to lots in a subdivision that abut a public street or road under the
ACCESS, LEGAL:                 jurisdiction of the city, the county, or the state. In the alternative, access
                               whereby the subdivider has obtained adequate and appropriate easements from a public
                               road to the subdivision across all intervening properties.
ACCESS, PHYSICAL:              A road conforming to the local subdivision standards provides vehicular access from
                               a public road to the subdivision and lots within the subdivision.
                               The use of land, buildings and/or other structures which is incidental to the
                               principal use established on the same lot; must be subordinate to and serve such
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE:     principal use; must be subordinate in area, extent and purpose to such principal
                               use; and must contribute to the comfort, convenience or necessity of users of such
                               principal use.
ADJOINING LANDOWNER (ADJACENT  The owner of record of a parcel of land that is contiguous, at any point, or land
PROPERTY OWNER):               that is separated from the parcel by a road, watercourse, or deeded right of way.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING             Housing where the occupant is paying no more than thirty percent (30%) of the median
                               income for the county for gross housing costs including utility costs.
                               The use of the land for growing, raising, or marketing of plants or animals to
                               produce food, feed, and fiber commodities. Examples of agricultural activities
                               include, but are not limited to, cultivation and tillage of the soil; dairying;
                               growing and harvesting of agricultural or horticultural commodities; and the raising
AGRICULTURAL:                  of livestock, bees, furbearing animals, or poultry. Agriculture does not include
                               gardening for personal use, keeping of house pets, kenneling, or landscaping for
                               aesthetic purposes. Agricultural land includes land used for agriculture or having a
                               soil type defined by the Natural Resources Conservation Service as having
                               agricultural importance, including prime farmland, farmland of statewide importance,
                               and farmland of local importance.
                               Those facilities which provide water for irrigation or stock watering to
AGRICULTURAL WATER USER        agricultural lands for the production of agricultural products. These facilities
FACILITIES:                    include, but are not limited to, ditches, head gates, pipes, and other water
                               conveying facilities.
                               A person who files an application under these regulations and who is either the
APPLICANT:                     owner of the land on which that proposed activity would be located, a contract
                               purchaser, or the authorized agent of such persons.
APPROACH:                      The point where a residential driveway meets a public road or where a local access
                               road intersects a higher classification of public road.
BLOCK:                         A group of lots, tracts, or parcels within well-defined and fixed boundaries, such
                               as public streets, railroads, or natural features.
                               That part of the public right of way located between the curb line and the sidewalk
                               of any street. The boulevard is landscaped primarily with grass and trees which are
BOULEVARD:                     to be maintained by the adjacent property owner. In the absence of a curb or
                               sidewalk, the boulevard is area between that portion of the public right of way
                               maintained and open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel and
                               the adjacent property boundary.
                               A tree that, under normal forest conditions, will compose the top layer or canopy of
CANOPY TREE:                   vegetation and generally will reach a mature height of greater than forty feet
                               (40').
                               A drawing of a field survey prepared by a professional land surveyor for the purpose
CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY:         of disclosing facts pertaining to boundary locations and monuments, as required by
                               76-3-103, Montana Code Annotated.
CITY:                          The city of Whitefish, Flathead County, state of Montana.
CLEARING LIMITS:               The area within a lot where all construction will occur, including the home,
                               accessory structures, and driveways.
                               Undeveloped land within a subdivision that has been designated, dedicated, reserved,
                               or restricted in perpetuity from further development and is set aside for the use
                               and enjoyment by residents of the development. Common open space must not be part of
                               individual residential lots. It must be substantially free of structures, but may
COMMON OPEN SPACE:             contain historic structures and archaeological sites, and/or recreational facilities
                               for residents, including, but not limited to, benches, picnic tables and
                               interpretive signage as indicated on an approved development plan. Stormwater
                               control facilities for the benefit of the subdivision may also be located within
                               common open space.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BOARD:   The Whitefish community development board, formed pursuant to Title 76, Chapter 25,
                               Montana Code Annotated.
                               A form of individual ownership with unrestricted right of disposal of one or more
CONDOMINIUM:                   units in a multiple-unit project with all the land and all other parts of the
                               project held in common ownership or use with owners of the other units.
                               An easement or restriction, running with the land and assignable, whereby an owner
                               of land voluntarily relinquishes to the holder of such easement or restriction, any
                               or all rights to construct improvements upon the land or to substantially alter the
CONSERVATION EASEMENT:         natural character of the land or to permit the construction of improvements upon the
                               land or the substantial alteration of the natural character of the land, except as
                               this right is expressly reserved in the instruments evidencing the easement or
                               restriction.
COVENANT:                      An agreement, in writing, of two (2) or more parties by which any one of the parties
                               pledges to the others that something is done or must not be done.
                               The deliberate appropriation of land by an owner for any general and public use,
DEDICATION:                    reserving no rights which are incompatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of
                               the public use to which the property has been devoted.
                               A designated area around a home or other structure the size of which is dependent on
                               the vegetation, proximity of tree crowns, slope, and distance to adjacent buildings.
DEFENSIBLE SPACE:              Within this area all weeds, dry grass, slash, flammable debris, and flammable fuel
                               is removed. This managed buffer surrounding buildings and structures is designed to
                               reduce the chances of fire spreading to or from the buildings or structures.
DENSITY:                       The number of units per gross acre in any development.
                               A land use consisting of the construction or exterior alteration of structures;
                               grading, dredging, drilling, or dumping; filling; removal of sand, gravel, or
DEVELOPMENT:                   minerals; bulkheading; driving of pilings; or any project of a temporary or
                               permanent nature which modifies structures (except interior remodels and minor
                               additions), land, or shorelines and which does not fall within the allowable
                               exemptions contained in this code.
                               The segregation of one or more parcels of land from a larger tract or held in single
                               or undivided ownership by transferring, or contracting to transfer, title to or
DIVISION OF LAND:              possession of a portion of the tract or property filing a certificate of survey or
                               subdivision plat establishing the identity of the segregated parcel(s) pursuant to
                               the MSPA. The conveyance of a tract of record or an entire parcel of land that was
                               created by a previous division of land is not a division of land.
DWELLING UNIT:                 Any building, or portion thereof, providing complete independent and permanent
                               living facilities for one family.
EASEMENT:                      A right to use land, other than as a tenant, for a specific purpose; such right
                               being held by someone other than the owner.
ENGINEER (PROFESSIONAL         A person licensed in conformance with the Montana professional engineer registration
ENGINEER):                     act to practice engineering in the State of Montana.
                               A professional land surveyor duly appointed by the county commissioners to review
EXAMINING LAND SURVEYOR:       surveys and plats submitted for filing with the Flathead County Clerk and Recorder's
                               Office.
                               The total land area adjoining a river, stream, watercourse, or lake subject to
FLOODPLAIN:                    inundation with a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year,
                               based on the one hundred (100)-year floodplain designations of the federal emergency
                               management agency and the national flood insurance program.
                               The channel of a watercourse or drainageway and those portions of a floodplain
FLOODWAY:                      adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
                               floodwater of any watercourse or drainageway.
                               Property found through a retracement survey, certificate of survey or other
FOUND PROPERTY:                surveying activity. If previously unsurveyed property is found, this property must
                               not be considered a new lot, but must be part of an adjacent lot or lots.
GOVERNING BODY:                The City Council, City of Whitefish, Flathead County, Montana.
GRADING:                       The placement, removal, or movement of earth by use of mechanical equipment on a
                               property.
GROWTH POLICY:                 This term is synonymous with a comprehensive development plan, master plan, or
                               comprehensive plan that meets the requirements of 76-1-601, Montana Code Annotated.
HAMMER HEAD TURNAROUND:        A "T" shaped turnaround used to provide a three (3) point turnaround capability.
HOMEOWNERS' PARK:              A park serving a specific subdivision or group of subdivisions that is maintained by
                               a homeowners' association or park owner's agreement.
                               As this term is used in section 76-3-207(1)(b), Montana Code Annotated (family
IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER:       transfer exemption), it means the spouse of the grantor not on a deed, the parents
                               or children by blood or adoption.
                               Any structure or facility constructed to serve common use by the residents of a
IMPROVEMENTS:                  subdivision or the general public. The improvements may include parks, streets and
                               roads, parking areas, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, street lighting, utilities and
                               systems for water supply, sewage disposal, stormwater management and drainage.
                               A body of standing water, and the area within its lakeshore, occurring naturally
                               rather than by virtue of constructed impoundments (although a natural lake whose
                               level is raised and whose area is increased by the construction of impoundments
LAKE:                          includes the additional level and area), having a water surface area of at least
                               twenty (20) acres for at least six (6) months in a year of average precipitation as
                               such averages are determined by the United States geological survey, not used
                               exclusively for agricultural purposes and navigable by canoes and small boats.
LOT:                           A parcel, space or other land area created by subdivision for sale, rent, lease or
                               other purpose or conveyance.
                               For the purposes of these regulations lot measurements are defined as follows:
                               A.   Lot Depth: The depth or length of a lot must be:
                                  1.   If the front and rear lines are parallel, the shortest distance between the
                               lines.
                                  2.   If the front and rear lines are not parallel, the shortest distance between
                               the midpoint of the front line and the midpoint of the rear lot line.
                                  3.   If the lot is triangular or irregularly shaped, the shortest distance
                               between the front lot line and a line parallel to the front lot line, not less than
                               ten feet (10') long lying along the rear of the lot but still wholly within the lot.
                               B.   Lot Rear: The rear property line of a lot is that lot line opposite to the
                               front property line. Where the side property lines of a lot meet at a point, the
                               rear property line must be assumed to be a line not less than ten feet (10') long,
                               lying within the lot and parallel to the front property line. In the event that the
                               front property line is a curved line then the rear property line must be assumed to
                               be a line not less than ten feet (10') long, lying within the lot and parallel to a
                               line tangent to the front property line at its midpoint.
                               C.   Lot Front: The front property line of a lot must be determined as follows:
                                  1.   Corner Lot: The front property line of a corner lot must be the shorter of
                               the two (2) lines adjacent to the streets as platted, subdivided or laid out. Where
LOT MEASUREMENTS:              the lines are equal, the front line must be that line which is obviously the front
                               by reason of the prevailing custom of the other buildings on the block. If such
                               front is not evident, then either may be considered the front of the lot, but not
                               both.
                                  2.   Interior Lot: The front property line of an interior lot must be the line
                               bounding the street frontage.
                                  3.   Through Lot: The front property line of a through lot must be that line
                               which is obviously the front by reason of the prevailing custom of other buildings
                               in the block. Where such front property line is not obviously evident, the zoning
                               administrator must determine the front property line.
                                  4.   Lot Area (Net): The total horizontal area within the boundary lines of a lot
                               excluding rights of way. Where street easements are located within or bordering a
                               parcel, lot area computation must not include that area contained within the
                               easement. Included in the net area is the area lying within utility easements,
                               sanitary sewer easements, landscaping easements, and other such easements wherein
                               the owner of the lot is not prohibited from using the surface of the land.
                                  5.   Lot Area (Gross): The total horizontal area within the boundary lines of a
                               lot.
                                  6.   Lot Side: The side property lines of a lot are those lot lines connecting
                               the front and rear property lines of a lot.
LOT TYPES:
   Corner Lot:              A lot located at the intersection of two (2) streets.
   Interior Lot:            A lot with frontage on only one street.
                               An irregularly shaped lot typified by being almost entirely landlocked and having
   Irregular Lot (Flag Lot):limited access and/or no direct frontage except through a driveway abutting a road
                               or street. Access to a public or private street is typically by an extended strip of
                               land either deeded or by easement.
                               An irregularly shaped lot which at the front lot line contains minimal frontage and
   Irregular Lot (Pie Lot): a substandard lot width but as the depth increases, side lot lines rapidly expand to
                               a legal width.
   Reverse Lot:             A lot in which the frontage is reversed from the general pattern of the area. A
                               reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot or an interior lot.
   Through Lot:             A lot with double frontage where the front lot line faces one public street and the
                               rear lot line faces another public street.
                               The mean average of the highest elevation of a lake of at least five (5) consecutive
                               years, excluding any high levels caused by erratic or unusual weather or hydrologic
                               conditions. A highest elevation caused by operation of a dam or other impoundment
                               counts toward the establishment of the mean annual high water elevation. For the
                               purpose of these regulations, the mean annual high water elevation for Whitefish
MEAN HIGH WATER MARK:          Lake is three thousand and seventy nine hundredths feet (3,000.79') msl (NAVD 1988)
                               which is equivalent to two thousand nine hundred ninety seven feet (2,997.00') msl
                               (NGVD 1929). The mean annual high water elevation on Lost Coon Lake is three
                               thousand one hundred four feet (3,104') msl (NAVD 1988), which is equivalent to
                               three thousand one hundred and twenty one hundredths feet (3,100.21') msl (NGVD
                               1929).
                               A structure of masonry, metal or other permanent material placed in the ground,
MONUMENT (PERMANENT MONUMENT): which is exclusively identifiable as a monument to a survey point, expressly planned
                               for surveying reference.
                               The physical conditions which exist within a given area, including land, air, water,
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT:           mineral, flora, fauna, sound, light and objects of historic and aesthetic
                               significance.
                               Land, air, water, fish, wildlife, minerals, flora, fauna, and other inherent
NATURAL RESOURCES:             resources related to a specific site or area that are publicly or privately owned or
                               managed.
                               The existence of any building or structure which, at the time such building or
                               structure was constructed, was not prohibited by any then existing applicable zoning
NONCONFORMING BUILDING:        ordinance, but which, by virtue of the subsequent adoption of one or more zoning
                               ordinances, would not be permitted due to setbacks, square footage, height, parking,
                               landscaping or other requirements.
                               The existence of any lot, parcel or tract of record lot, which was platted prior to
NONCONFORMING LOT:             the adoption of an otherwise applicable zoning ordinance, that fails to meet the lot
                               area or lot width standards of the zoning ordinance and district in which it is
                               located.
                               A land or water area devoid of buildings and other physical structures except where
                               accessory to the provision of recreation, including, but not limited to, benches,
OPEN SPACE:                    picnic tables and interpretive signage. Any area used for parking or maneuvering of
                               automobile vehicles or storage of equipment or refuse must not be deemed to be open
                               space unless it specifically serves as an accessory to the access and maintenance of
                               the open space area.
                               That mark where the presence and action of stream flows are so common that the soil
                               and vegetation have a character distinct from that of the abutting upland. Often
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK       referred to as “bank full width.” The OHWM must also include those wetlands which
(OHWM):                        are in proximity to and either influence or are influenced by the stream and/or
                               river. This influence includes, but is not limited to, one or more of the following:
                               periodic inundation, location within a floodplain, or hydraulic continuity.
OVERALL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:      The plan for a subdivision design for a single tract proposed to be subdivided in
                               stages or phases.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT       A tract of land developed as an integrated unit. The development is unique and is
(PUD):                         based on a plan which allows for flexibility of use, design, setting and density not
                               otherwise possible under the prevailing regulations.
                               A graphic representation of a subdivision prepared by a professional surveyor
PLAT:                          licensed in the state of Montana showing the division of land into lots, parcels,
                               blocks, alleys and other divisions and dedications.
                               The final drawing of any change to a platted subdivision filed with the County Clerk
   Amended Plat:            and recorder required to be prepared for filing for record with the county clerk and
                               recorder and containing all elements and requirements set forth in these regulations
                               and the Montana Subdivision and Platting Act.
                               The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication required to be prepared for
   Final Plat:              filing for record with the County Clerk and Recorder and containing all elements and
                               requirements set forth in these regulations and the Montana Subdivision and Platting
                               Act.
                               A neat and scaled drawing of a proposed subdivision showing the layout of streets,
   Preliminary Plat:        alleys, lots, blocks and other elements of a subdivision which furnishes a basis for
                               review by the governing body.
   Vacation Of Plat:        A plat which has been vacated either in whole or in part as provided by Montana Code
                               Annotated.
PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR:    A person licensed in conformance with Title 37, Chapter 67, Montana Code Annotated,
                               to practice surveying in the state of Montana.
PROPERTY LINE:                 The outer edge of a street or highway right of way.
PROPERTY OWNER:                The person owning such property as recorded at the clerk and recorder's office of
                               Flathead County, State of Montana.
PUBLIC PLACES:                 Must include all other grounds owned by the city of Whitefish.
PUBLIC TREES:                  All ornamental and native trees growing within a public right of way or any public
                               areas.
                               A recreational amenity that provides for activity often requiring equipment or
RECREATION, ACTIVE:            improvements. This would include sports games such as soccer, baseball or
                               basketball, playground activities, walking and biking.
                               A recreational amenity that generally does not require improvements or development.
                               This would include an undeveloped open space area that provides wildlife habitat,
RECREATION, PASSIVE:           wetlands, important forests or mature stands of trees or the protection of important
                               natural features that contribute to an area or development as an aesthetic or
                               environmental amenity. It may also include a walking path, viewing platform/area or
                               bench.
                               A place used for public camping where persons can rent space to park individual
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK:     camping trailers, pickup campers, motor homes, travel trailers or automobiles for
                               transient dwelling purposes.
                               A designated portion of a recreational vehicle park designed for placement of a
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE:    single recreational vehicle or transient dwelling for the exclusive use of its
                               occupants.
REMAINDER:                     A portion of a parcel not included as part of the subdivision and more than one
                               hundred sixty (160) acres.
                               A relatively narrow elevation that is prominent because it rises at an angle of
RIDGELINE:                     twenty five percent (25%) or greater; an elongated crest, or series of crests, with
                               or without individual peaks, significantly higher than the adjoining ground and
                               often acting as the hydrologic dividing line between two (2) or more drainage areas.
                               The area within one hundred fifty (150) horizontal feet of a ridgeline, measured
                               perpendicular to the ridgeline when the ridgeline is:
                               A.   When the elevation of a line parallel to the ridgeline loses either:
                                  1.   At least ten feet (10') in vertical elevation on both sides of the ridgeline
RIDGELINE PROTECTION AREA:     within one hundred feet (100'); or
                                  2.   At least thirty feet (30') in vertical elevation on both sides of the
                               ridgeline within three hundred feet (300').
                               B.   A combination of the two (2) standards where one side of the ridgeline meets
                               one loss of elevation standard and the opposite side meets the other.
RIGHT OF WAY:                  A strip of land dedicated or acquired for use as a public way.
SIDEWALK:                      A paved walkway designed to provide for safe and convenient circulation of
                               pedestrians.
STATE:                         The state of Montana.
                               The entire width of every public way or right of way when any part thereof is open
STREET:                        to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular and
                               pedestrian traffic.
STREET TYPES:                  For purposes of these regulations, street types are defined as follows:
                               A service way, open to public travel and dedicated to public use, affording a
   Alley:                   secondary means of vehicular access to abutting property and not intended for
                               general traffic circulation.
                               A street or road having the primary function of moving traffic and the secondary
   Arterial:                function of providing access to adjacent land. Arterials generally carry relatively
                               large volumes of traffic. Arterials have two (2) to four (4) lanes of traffic and
                               provide limited access to abutting property.
                               A street or road having the equally important functions of moving traffic and
   Collector:               providing access to adjacent land. Collector streets have two (2) traffic lanes and
                               two (2) parking lanes.
   Cul-De-Sac:              A street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic and terminating in a
                               turnaround area.
   Dead End Street:         A street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic.
                               A local road whose primary function is to serve as an alternate access in or out of
                               a development in emergency situations for both emergency vehicles and the public.
   Emergency Access Road:   Such roads may be built to a lesser standard than typically required for subdivision
                               roads, but must meet fire department standards. If constructed to a lesser standard,
                               it does not qualify as a primary access road or as providing legal access to a lot.
   Frontage Access (Service A local or collector street, usually parallel and adjacent to an arterial or major
Road):                         collector, which provides access to abutting properties and controls traffic access
                               to arterials or collectors.
                               A portion of the width of a street, usually along the outside perimeter of a
   Half Street:             subdivision, where the remaining portion of the street must be located on adjacent
                               property.
                               A street or road having the primary function of providing access to abutting
   Local Streets:           properties, and the secondary function of moving traffic. Local streets having two
                               (2) traffic lanes may have one or two (2) parking lanes.
   Loop:                    A local street which begins and ends on the same street, generally used for access
                               to properties.
   Private:                 A street or road which provides primary access to a lot or property but is not owned
                               or maintained by a government agency.
SUBDIVIDER:                    Any person, firm or corporation, or other entity which causes land to be subdivided
                               or who proposes a subdivision of land.
                               A division of land or land so divided, which creates one or more parcels containing
                               less than one hundred sixty (160) acres, exclusive of public roadways, in order that
                               the title to or possession of the parcels may be sold, rented, leased or otherwise
                               conveyed, and must include any resubdivision and must further include any
                               condominium or area, regardless of its size, which provides or will provide multiple
SUBDIVISION:                   space for recreational camping vehicles or manufactured homes. A subdivision must
                               comprise only those parcels less than one hundred sixty (160) acres which have been
                               segregated from the original tract, and the plat thereof must show all such parcels
                               whether contiguous or not. Provided, however, condominiums constructed on land
                               divided in compliance with the Montana subdivision and platting act are exempt from
                               the provisions of the act.
                               A subdivision containing six (6) or more lots/spaces/units, as well as the second or
   Major Subdivision:       successive minor subdivision where a cumulative total of six (6) or more lots/
                               spaces/units is proposed from the original “tract of record” in existence on October
                               1, 2003.
                               A subdivision containing five (5) or fewer lots/spaces/units and this plat and all
   Minor Subdivision:       previous minor plats proposed from the original “tract of record” in existence on
                               October 1, 2003.
SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR:     The planning and building director or designee.
                               A contractual agreement that may be required by the city council body to ensure the
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT        construction of such improvements as required by conditions of preliminary plat
AGREEMENT (SIA):               approval. The improvement agreement may typically require collateral to secure the
                               construction of such improvements.
                               A portion of a platted lot designated for separate ownership from other portions of
SUBLOT:                        the lot and used for townhouse or other construction that has separate ownership
                               with a common party wall as identified on the plat. This definition does not include
                               commercial pads.
SWALE:                         A drainage channel or shallow depression designed to direct surface water flow.
                               A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of two or more attached units
TOWNHOUSE:                     in which each unit extends from foundation to roof with a party wall between units
                               and is on its own lot. A townhouse does not share common floors/ceilings with other
                               dwelling units.
                               A parcel of land, irrespective of ownership, that can be identified by legal
TRACT OF RECORD:               description, independent of any other parcel of land, using documents on file in the
                               records of the County Clerk and Recorder's Office.
                               Any self-supporting woody perennial plant, usually having a main stem or trunk and
TREE:                          many branches, and at maturity, normally attaining a trunk diameter greater than
                               three inches (3") at any point and a height over ten feet (10').
                               A plan required through the subdivision regulations or the zoning regulations that
TREE PRESERVATION PLAN:        inventories the location, species, health and size of existing trees. Subject to
                               approval by the planning director or designee, the preservation plan would also
                               indicate which trees are to be removed and which are to be preserved.
TREE REPLACEMENT PLAN:         A plan required through the subdivision regulations or the zoning regulations that
                               inventories the location, species, and size of proposed trees.
                               A tree that, under normal forest conditions, grows to maturity beneath overstory
UNDERSTORY TREE:               trees and will generally reach a mature height of at least ten feet (10') but less
                               than forty feet (40').
                               A map at a scale suitable to locate property, showing the boundary lines of all
VICINITY SKETCH:               adjacent properties and streets and other information necessary to determine the
                               general location of the proposed subdivision.
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION       A critical stormwater conveyance, stream, lake, wetland, a slope with potential for
AREAS:                         erosion hazard or instability or the Whitefish River, as regulated by these
                               regulations or other ordinances or policies adopted by the City of Whitefish.
 
(Ord. 09-23, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 12-04, 2-6-2012; Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; Ord.
21-15, 9-20-2021; Ord. 23-15, 8-21-2023; Ord. 24-02, 2-20-2024)
TITLE 13
LAKE AND LAKESHORE PROTECTION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LAKE AND LAKESHORE PROTECTION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Title And Authority
13-1-2: Purpose
13-1-3: Jurisdiction
13-1-4: Interpretation
13-1-5: Definitions
13-1-6: Burden Of Proof
13-1-1: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
These regulations shall be known and referred to as the WHITEFISH AREA LAKE AND
LAKESHORE PROTECTION REGULATIONS, and are adopted under the authority of the
state of Montana, Montana Code Annotated 75-7-207, which requires local
governing bodies to adopt regulations regarding the issuance or denial of
permits for work in lakes within their jurisdiction, including land which is
within twenty (20) horizontal feet of the mean annual high water elevation (see
figure 1 of this section).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3090.png]
 
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009)
13-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to:
   A.   Protect the fragile, pristine character of Whitefish area lakes and the
intertwined adjacent riparian and upland areas;
   B.   Conserve and protect natural lakes because of their high scenic and
resource value;
   C.   Conserve and protect the value of lakeshore property;
   D.   Conserve and protect the value of the lakes for the state’s residents
and visitors who use and enjoy them. (Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009)
13-1-3: JURISDICTION:
These regulations govern any work which alters Whitefish Lake, Lost Loon Lake,
and the land which is within twenty (20) horizontal feet of the mean annual
high water elevation of these lakes. For properties along Whitefish Lake
located outside of Whitefish city limits, these regulations govern any work or
floating structures which extend below the mean low water elevation.
(Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
These regulations supplement all other regulations, and the permit issued
hereunder does not supersede or negate the necessity for obtaining floodplain
permits or other permits as may be required by other governmental entities
having jurisdictional responsibilities over a lake or its lakeshore. Where any
provision of these regulations imposes more stringent regulations, requirements
or limitations than imposed or required by any other regulation, resolution,
ordinance or statute, the provisions of these regulations govern.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or phrases appear in this title, they must be
given meanings attributed to them by this section. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, the singular
include the plural and the plural the singular, the word "must" is always
mandatory, and the word "may" indicates a use of discretion in making a
decision.
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT: A document issued by the administrator for such
activities and projects, when constructed within the approved design
guidelines, are deemed to have an insignificant impact on the lake and
lakeshore per subsections
13-2-5B5 and B6 of this title.
ADMINISTRATOR: Administrator of the planning office for the governing body
(Whitefish city council) which has jurisdiction over that portion of the
lakeshore for which the permit application is made.
APPLICANT: The person or persons making applications to the city or city
council for a permit. On a permit in which a letter of authorization is
provided to allow a contractor or other individual to act on behalf of the
property owner, both the property owner and other individual or contractor will
be considered to be the applicant.
BIOENGINEERING: See Natural Shoreline Restoration.
BOAT RAIL SYSTEM: A facility consisting of tracks extending from or across the
lakeshore protection zone into the lake which is designed to facilitate
launching or retrieving boats.
BOAT RAMP: A facility consisting of a pad extending from or across the
lakeshore protection zone into the lake which is designed to facilitate
launching or retrieving boats.
BOAT SHELTER: A permanent structure which provides shelter for boats and which
has not more than ten percent (10%) of any side or end wall area enclosed. A
breakwater adjoining a shelter is not considered a part of a wall.
BOATHOUSE: A permanent structure which provides housing and shelter for boats
and which has more than ten percent (10%) of any side or end wall area
enclosed.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof supported on columns or walls for storage,
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
BUOY: A float moored to the bottom, used to moor boats, mark channels, etc.
CITY LIMITS: The city limits of Whitefish include all properties annexed into
the city limits as well as the entirety of Whitefish Lake to the low water
elevation of 2996.44.
CONSTRUCTED AREA: That portion of the lake and lakeshore protection zone
covered by any constructed structure such as a dock, deck, walkway, patio,
boathouse, boat shelter, water trampolines, shore station cover, floating boat
lift or floating personal watercraft docking station or covered by any
nonnative material or substance that would not naturally occur, such as
concrete, asphalt, or dry laid stone.
DOCK: A platform, either non-floating or floating, which extends into, over or
across the water to provide for boat moorage, access to a moorage area,
swimming facilities or other related activities.
DOCK LENGTH: The total length of the dock including any access gangways (see
Figure 2 of this section).
DOCK WING: That portion of a dock and deck which lies generally parallel to the
shoreline with its main function as a wave break or to provide a boat slip or
sheltered area as opposed to primarily provide access out to deep water (see
Figure 2 of this section).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3092.png]
 
DREDGING: The process of excavating material from the lake bottom and thereby
increasing the depth of a portion of the lake bottom. The term includes the
process of extending the lake area landward by excavating material from the
lakeshore protection zone and thereby lowering the elevation of that portion of
that zone.
DWELLING UNIT: All permanent, semipermanent and temporary buildings, guest
quarters, cabins, apartments, mobile homes, campers, trailers, motor homes or
similar facilities, including appurtenant structures, which provide sleeping
and/or cooking facilities.
DYNAMIC GRAVEL BEACH: The addition or re-introduction of prescriptive substrate
including sand and/or gravel to a shoreline beach and its underwater extension
to engineer a wave break that adjusts to storm waves and restores lake ecology
and naturally dissipates wave action. Also known as a dynamic equilibrium
beach.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT: A written analysis by a certified
environmental professional of the potential environmental consequences of a
project on water quality, habitat, navigation and recreation, public safety,
scenic values of predominant landscape elements, and alterations of shoreline
characteristics.
FAIR MARKET VALUE: The price that a willing purchaser would pay a willing
seller, assuming that both parties are well informed and well advised, and
neither is under a particular compulsion to buy or sell.
FILLING: The process of discharging material onto a lake bottom and thereby
raising the elevation of a portion of the lake bottom including the elimination
of an aquatic environment or a wetland environment by extending the dry land
area into such aquatic or wetland area. This term includes the process of
discharging material onto the lakeshore protection zone and thereby raising the
elevation of that portion of that zone.
FLOATING BOAT LIFT: A single or multisectional, self-floating system designed
to support a boat or personal watercraft.
GOVERNING BODY: The Whitefish city council.
GRAVEL WAVE BREAK: The addition or re-introduction of prescriptive substrate
offshore to create a shoal to naturally dissipate wave action as part of a
dynamic gravel beach.
HABITAT ENHANCEMENT: Strengthening ecosystem integrity of the shoreline by re-
establishing or improving habitat for native aquatic plants and
macroinvertebrates including aquatic insects and fish.
HAND TOOLS: For the purpose of routine or seasonal work on a nonconforming
structure (see definition of Maintenance), hand tools would generally include
implements that can be readily carried and operated by a single person,
including power tools that operate with a battery, electricity or gasoline/
diesel fuel.
HOUSEBOAT: Any boat or vessel which is designed or used primarily for living or
as a house, domicile or dwelling rather than for water transport or
recreational purposes.
IMPERVIOUS: Not permeable, impenetrable by water.
IMPROVEMENT: An addition made to property (real estate) or a change in its
condition which is intended to enhance its value, aesthetics, utility, or to
adapt it for new or further purposes.
LAGOONS: An artificial boat harbor created by excavating the shoreline,
removing earth material and thereby extending an aquatic environment into a dry
land area.
LAKE: A body of standing water, and the area within its lakeshore, occurring
naturally rather than by virtue of constructed impoundments (although a natural
lake whose level is raised and whose area is increased by the construction of
impoundments includes the additional level and area), having a water surface
area of at least twenty (20) acres for at least six (6) months in a year of
average precipitation as such averages are determined by the United States
geological survey, not used exclusively for agricultural purposes and navigable
by canoes and small boats.
LAKE FRONTAGE: For the purpose of administering these regulations, lake
frontage is based on the linear feet of lake frontage of the lot or tract to be
developed as well as any adjoining undeveloped lots under the same ownership.
"Common waterfront property ownership" is defined as multiple contiguous lots
under one family or related ownership, including fractional ownership in a
corporation, partnership or other legal entity. Lake frontage is determined
from records at the Flathead County assessor's office, subdivision plats,
certificates of survey, or may be measured as a straight line between two (2)
lot lines at the point where mean annual high water intersects each lot line.
LAKESHORE PROTECTION ZONE: The lake, lake bed and the land area which is within
twenty (20) horizontal feet of the parameter of the lake and adjacent wetlands
when the lake is at the mean annual high water elevation (see Figure 1 above).
MAINTENANCE: Routine or seasonal work or upkeep involving tightening, adjusting
or minor replacement of boards, shingles, broken windows, cleanup of debris
such as branches and leaves, restacking fallen rock, or similar activities that
do not require a building permit. Painting or staining is allowed only on
nonconforming structures built prior to 1978 and located landward of the mean
high water line. Routine maintenance only requires hand tools. Any dredging,
filling or excavation is not considered maintenance, nor is replacement or
changes to structural, weight bearing, or foundation components or adding
improvements not previously present on structure.
MARINA, PRIVATE: A marina facility which serves the needs of a homeowners'
association, private housing development, resort facility, or other limited
group, and provides overnight dockage or moorage.
MARINA, PUBLIC: A marina facility which provides boat slips and/or services,
without restriction, to the general public.
MEAN ANNUAL HIGH WATER ELEVATION: The mean average of the highest elevation of
a lake of at least five (5) consecutive years, excluding any high levels caused
by erratic or unusual weather or hydrologic conditions. A highest elevation
caused by operation of a dam or other impoundment counts toward the
establishment of the mean annual high water elevation. For the purpose of these
regulations, the mean annual high water elevation for Whitefish Lake has been
established at three thousand and seventy nine hundredths feet (3,000.79') msl
(NAVD 1988), which is equivalent to two thousand nine hundred ninety seven feet
(2,997.00') msl (NGVD 1929). The mean annual high water elevation on Lost Loon
Lake is three thousand one hundred four feet (3,104') msl (NAVD 1988), which is
equivalent to three thousand one hundred and twenty one hundredths feet
(3,100.21') msl (NGVD 1929).
MEAN ANNUAL LOW WATER ELEVATION: For the purpose of these regulations, the mean
annual low water elevation for Whitefish Lake has been established at two
thousand nine hundred and ninety-six and forty-four hundredths feet (2996.44')
msl (NAVD 1988), anything below which is within Whitefish city limits and under
the city's jurisdiction.
NATURAL SHORELINE RESTORATION OR BIOENGINEERING: Using natural materials to
restore and create living shorelines utilizing fiber coir logs, sills, groins,
live staking, encapsulated soil lifts, breakwaters, or other natural components
in combination with gravel and other natural substrate materials and/or native
vegetation to protect, restore, enhance, or create natural shoreline habitat.
NATIVE PLANTS: A terrestrial plant species that has persisted within one
hundred feet (100') of mean high water along lakes in Northwest Montana prior
to influence by humans. A resource file on native plants is available from the
planning office.
NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE: For the purposes of these regulations, a non-
conforming or grandfathered structure is a structure built and installed prior
to the original adoption of these lakeshore regulations in 1976, or was legal
prior to any later amendments to these regulations that subsequently made the
structure non-conforming.
QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL, BEACH DESIGN: A person with professional experience and
training as a scientific expert in the design and engineering of dynamic gravel
beaches to restore lake ecology and naturally dissipate wave action, including
licensed engineers and landscape architects.
PERMIT: A document issued city staff or the city council verifying compliance
with the requirements and provisions of these requirements.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, institution or entity;
the state and its departments and any political subdivision of the state.
PLANNING BOARD: The Whitefish community development board.
PRESCRIPTIVE SUBSTRATE: Appropriately sized substrate such as rocks, gravel
and/or sand as identified by a qualified professional to successfully implement
a dynamic gravel beach, gravel wave break, or other gravel application.
REAL VALUE: For the purpose of maintenance and/or repair of a nonconforming
structure, the real value must be determined to be the fair market value of the
structure in its existing condition as determined by a certified property
appraiser or tax assessor, exclusive of foundation or location, prior to any
changes or damage.
RECONSTRUCTION: To rebuild an existing structure such that at the time of
reconstruction in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the real value of the
facility, excluding foundation, is replaced. Reconstruction of a nonconforming
structure is prohibited. See definitions of Maintenance and Repair.
REPAIR: To restore an existing facility to sound condition by replacing
component parts of the facility and maintaining the exact design, size and
configuration as was original prior to repair. All repair materials must
conform with subsection
13-3-1A, "Construction Materials", of this title.
RETAINING WALL: Any structure built essentially parallel and contiguous to the
shoreline of a lake which is designed to protect the landmass inland from the
structure, from erosion or wave action and protect the lake from siltation.
Retaining walls can disperse active shoreline erosion onto adjacent property
and impact lake ecology.
RIPARIAN BOUNDARY: A projection of the side property lines from their point of
intersection with the perimeter of the lake at its mean annual high water
elevations, lakeward at right angles to the natural shoreline. Where a
structure has been built into the lake and the structure has caused the buildup
of an artificial shoreline, the artificial shoreline cannot be utilized to
establish the riparian boundary (see Figure 3 of this section).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3094.png]
 
RIPRAP: A layer, facing, or protective mound of stones, or rock or other
materials randomly placed to prevent erosion, scour or sloughing of a structure
or embankment. The placement of riprap can disperse active shoreline erosion
onto adjacent properties and impact lake ecology. Riprap is limited to areas
where active shoreline erosion is clearly present and requires a variance.
RIPRAP, VEGETATED: A rock and roots approach to reinforcement against ice and
wave action where natural looking rocks are typically set at a 2:1 (two feet
horizontal, one foot vertical) slope and vegetation such as live dormant
cuttings are placed among rocks and at the top of bank, with biodegradable
filter fabric and a layer of clean washed crushed gravel placed behind the rock
to help prevent further loss of sediment from a bank. Also known as vegetated
rock revetment.
SEWAGE PUMPOUT FACILITY: A facility specifically provided to pump out and
receive the contents of holding tanks onboard boats, with "holding tanks"
understood to mean any retention system on a boat which is designed to hold
sewage and which must be emptied from time to time.
SHORE STATION: A seasonal, portable, metal or wood frame carriage which is
designed to hoist boats or personal watercraft from the water and to store
boats or personal watercraft over the water or on the lakeshore.
SIDE WALL AREA (OF A DOCK): The side wall of that portion of a dock which is
generally perpendicular to the shoreline.
SOFT STRUCTURE ARMORING: Using live native plants, logs, root wads, vegetative
mats, and other methods to protect shorelines while creating habitat and
eliminating or reducing the need for hard armoring with riprap, stone blocks,
sheet-pile, or other hard structures and materials.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner and either attached to or supported by the
ground or floating on the water (e.g., dock, buoys, etc.).
SWIMMING DOCK: A type of dock which does not abut the shoreline or extend above
the water to the shoreline, used typically for swimming and related activities
(see definition of Dock).
WATER DEPTH PROFILE: A profile drawing done by a dock installer or other
professional that accurately measures the water depth perpendicular from the
center of a lakefront property every ten feet (10') at sixty feet (60') from
shore out to one hundred feet (100') from shore measured at low water between
August 15 and April 15.
WETLANDS: Water-land interface areas which are inundated or saturated by
surface and/or ground waters at a frequency and duration of time periods
sufficient to establish and, under natural conditions, support a prevalence of
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands
generally include, but are not limited to, swamps, marshes, bogs and similar
areas. Wetland areas may be separated from the main body of water by manmade
barriers or natural berms. The water elevation of a wetland area is related to
the elevation of the lake water.
WORK: Activity that changes the condition of the lakeshore protection zone or
structures within the lakeshore protection zone.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-1-6: BURDEN OF PROOF:
In all proceedings and hearings, and in all application and submittal
materials, the burden of proof rests with the applicant, permittee or
appellant, as applicable.
(Ord. 16-04, 2-16-2016; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 2
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Permit Required
13-2-2: Exemptions From Permit Requirements
13-2-3: Prohibited Construction Or Installations
13-2-4: Additional Requirements
13-2-5: Application Procedures
13-2-6: Policy Criteria For Issuance Of A Permit
13-2-7: Policy Considerations
13-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person will proceed with any work on, or alteration or disturbance of, a
lake, lake bed, or lakeshore within city limits until he/she has obtained, and
has physical possession of a valid "lakeshore construction permit" from the
city. The person who performs or authorizes such work, and the property owner,
are responsible for assuring that a valid permit has been obtained.
The permit issued must be displayed during work activity so that it is
conveniently visible to the public.
   A.   Standard Permit: Without limitation, the following activities, when
conducted within the lake, lake bed or lakeshore protection zone, are examples
of work for which a lakeshore construction permit is required, which must be
reviewed by the Lake and Lakeshore Protection Committee and approved by the
Whitefish City Council:
      1.   Excavation for walkways paths or stairs or removal of non-conforming
structures;
      2.   Construction of boat service facilities, including the installation
of fuel pumps or sewage pumpout facilities;
      3.   Construction, installation of, or additions to docks over sixty feet
(60') in length, including gangways;
      4.   Installation of boat rail systems, public boat ramps, and boat
storage and parking facilities;
      5.   Any major clearing or removal of live vegetation;
      6.   Installation of stairways, walkways, and paths, including stepping
stones, dry laid stone, or untreated timbers;
      7.   Repair or reconstruction of existing buildings or facilities;
      8.   Operation of machinery, with the exception of recreational
watercraft and equipment used for seasonal removal/installation of docks;
      9.   Adding gravel and other substrates for swim beach restoration or
engineered dynamic gravel wave break installations;
      10.   Any other work not herein mentioned that may have an impact on a
lake, lake bed or lakeshore.
   B.   Administrative Permit: Without limitation, the following activities,
when conducted within the lake, lake bed, or lakeshore protection zone, are
examples of activities for which an administrative lakeshore permit is
required, which may be approved by the zoning administrator or designee,
providing the permit complies with all other regulations and construction
standards, has minimal or insignificant impact on the lake and lakeshore, and
does not require a variance:
      1.   Construction, installation of, or additions to docks up to sixty
feet (60') in length, including gangways;
      2.   Installation of boat and personal watercraft shore stations, buoys,
swim docks, and floating trampolines;
      3.   Moving a floating dock, shore station, or buoy to another location
on the lake;
      4.   Stockpiling and/or open burning of piles of brush, trees,
vegetation, construction materials or debris;
      5.   Dead, dangerous, or fallen tree removal;
      6.   Soft structure armoring that doesn't involve other activities for a
which a permit is required;
      7.   Installation of underground domestic water lines, sewer lines or
other utility lines or facilities installed during low water;
      8.   Scientific research, education, or outreach activities.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-2-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The following types of work are not required to obtain a permit, but must
comply with the construction criteria of these regulations:
   A.   Repair Work: Repair work which qualifies as routine maintenance (see
section
13-1-5, "Definitions", of this title) or, if a nonconforming structure,
complies with subsection
13-3-1Z of this title.
   B.   Buoys: Buoys placed in a lake on a temporary basis (not exceeding 10
days) in a calendar year if the planning office is notified of the location and
time frame prior to its placement.
   C.   Emergency Work:
      1.   Emergency work where a condition exists that poses an imminent
threat to property, structures, or improvements, provided that:
         a.   The work being done is only what is necessary to mitigate the
immediate threat; and
         b.   The conditions which constitute the threat were caused by
extenuating circumstances which could not be readily anticipated and which do
not reoccur on an annual basis.
      2.   The following procedures must be followed before emergency work is
performed:
         a.   The person proposing to do emergency work must notify the
planning department as to the nature of the emergency, description of the work
to be done and the location of the site. If the work date falls on a normal
working day (Monday through Friday, excluding holidays), notification must be
made prior to beginning work. If the work date falls on a nonworking day
(Saturday, Sunday and holidays), notification must be made on the next working
day. Notification must be made by phone and in writing.
         b.   The administrator or designee will review the notification. If
the administrator or designee determines the work is emergency work, he/she
will issue a permit and provide a copy to the applicant and the lakeshore
protection committee.
         c.   If work done under the emergency provision goes beyond the
minimum necessary to mitigate the danger, or if work is done where no emergency
condition existed, such work will be considered a violation of these
regulations.
   D.   Real Estate Signs: One temporary sign is allowed on properties for sale
or rent six (6) square feet in size or less per face.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-2-3: PROHIBITED CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATIONS:
The following types of work, new construction, and installations are prohibited
in the lakeshore protection zone:
   A.   Boathouses;
   B.   Boat shelters;
   C.   Pump houses;
   D.   Crib dock;
   E.   Pilings and helical piers;
   F.   Covering beach with impervious nonnative material (material which does
not allow water absorption);
   G.   Any installation of asphalt;
   H.   Construction of channels or ditches;
   I.   Excavation below the mean annual high water elevation;
   J.   Dredging, to remove muck, silt sediment, rock or vegetation;
   K.   Filling, including the addition of rocks and riprap, with the exception
of swim beach restoration and engineered dynamic gravel beaches and wave
breaks;
   L.   Construction of lagoons;
   M.   Construction of living quarters, buildings, or other impervious
surfaces, with the exception of dry set stone or untreated timbers for stairs,
walkways, and paths;
   N.   Construction of elevated structures (example: decks, overhangs),
including extensions into the lakeshore protection zone airspace;
   O.   Construction of retaining walls and breakwaters;
   P.   Satellite dishes;
   Q.   Permanent or temporary buildings and structures;
   R.   Hot tubs;
   S.   Fuel storage tanks;
   T.   Decks;
   U.   Roads, driveways, or parking areas; and
   V.   Signs, with the exception of one temporary sign on properties for sale
or rent six (6) square feet or less per face.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-2-4: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Restoration: A person who performs work in the lake, lake bed or
lakeshore without a permit for that work must, if required, restore the lake,
lake bed, or lakeshore to its condition.
   B.   Property Rights: Work or development approved by permit under these
regulations does not create a vested property right in the permitted
development, other than in the physical structure, if any, so developed.
   C.   Permission To Enter: The person making application for a permit grants
the city council, lakeshore protection committee, planning department, their
staff and/or their consultants permission to enter upon his/her land or upon
the waters of the lake upon reasonable notice to evaluate the site and verify
compliance with any lakeshore construction permit issued under these
regulations while the permit is in an active state.
   D.   Easement Holder Rights: Easement holders (individuals or groups who
have easement access or easement rights within the lakeshore protection zone)
are not eligible to apply for or obtain a lakeshore construction permit and
must not perform work within the lakeshore protection zone.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-2-5: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application: Any person seeking a lakeshore construction permit must
submit a complete application to the administrator of the planning office of
the city of Whitefish. The application must be accompanied by both paper and
digital copies of a vicinity map with directions to the property, photographs
of the shoreline (including docks and all structures in the lakeshore
protection zone), a scaled site plan, detailed project drawings, calculations
of the square footage of all existing impervious surfaces of constructed area
in the Lakeshore Protection Zone (including docks, covered shore stations,
existing structures and patios, retaining walls, stairways and stone paths),
and the fee established by the city council.
   The applicant may be required to submit additional information where the
administrator or designee, lakeshore protection committee or city council
determines additional information is necessary to adequately evaluate the
proposal.
   B.   Review Process:
      1.   An application is deemed as accepted when a complete application,
required accompaniments and fee are presented to the administrator or designee.
The application must be either signed by the property owner or a letter of
authorization from the owner must be attached. If the application is
incomplete, the administrator or designee will notify the applicant within
forty (40) days of receipt of the application. Incomplete applications will not
be processed until deemed complete. Applications will not be processed until
active lakeshore violations are resolved, with the exception of cases where an
approved application will resolve or partially resolve the violation.
      2.   Upon acceptance of an application, the administrator or designee
will either issue the permit or schedule it for review at the next regular
meeting of the committee, depending on the type of permit.
      3.   Directly adjacent (excluding right-of-way) neighbors with lake
frontage will be notified by city staff via mail at least ten (10) days prior
to hearings before the lakeshore protection committee for applications for
minor or major variances.
      4.   The committee will have up to sixty (60) calendar days from the date
of acceptance of the completed application to review and forward comments to
the city council for final action. If no comment is received after sixty (60)
days, the application will be forwarded to the administrator or designee for
final action by the city council with no comment.
      5.   Upon review and approval of a permit application, the administrator
or designee will have up to thirty (30) calendar days to issue an
administrative permit.
   C.   Review Period: Review of a permit application and its approval,
conditional approval or denial by the city council, will be placed on the
council's agenda and take place within ninety (90) days from the date of
acceptance by the administrator unless the application is deemed incomplete by
the administrator or designee or the lakeshore protection committee, or the
applicant agrees to an extension of the review period.
   D.   Permit Validity: A permit is valid for a period of twelve (12) months
from the date of issuance unless otherwise approved by the city council or
administrator. All construction must be completed prior to expiration of the
permit. The permit may be renewed without submission of a new application or
plans if the applicant requests a permit renewal in writing from the
administrator before the original permit expires and the administrator grants a
renewal. The administrator, at their discretion, may grant more than one
renewal.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-2-6: POLICY CRITERIA FOR ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT:
All lakeshore construction permits must be evaluated against the policy
criteria for issuance of a permit. A permit will only be issued when it is
found that the proposed action will not, during either its construction or its
utilization:
   A.   Materially diminish water quality;
   B.   Materially diminish habitat for fish or wildlife;
   C.   Interfere with navigation or other lawful recreation;
   D.   Create a public nuisance or public safety hazard;
   E.   Create a visual impact discordant with natural scenic values, as
determined by the governing body, where such values form the predominant
landscape elements; and
   F.   Alter the characteristics of the shoreline.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-2-7: POLICY CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   A person who performs work in the lake or lakeshore protection zone
without a permit for that work must restore the lake or lakeshore protection
zone to its condition before they disturbed it.
   B.   Archive photos or baseline videos may be used in enforcing these
regulations and prosecuting violations.
   C.   Areas where vegetation has been destroyed in the lakeshore protection
zone must be restored in accordance with subsection 13-3-1D of this title.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 3
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
13-3-1: General Construction Standards
13-3-1: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
Any proposed project or action must be in compliance with the following
construction standards, and these policy considerations will be used in
evaluating any variance from the adopted construction standards:
   A.   Construction Materials:
      1.   General:
         a.   Any building material used in the lakeshore protection zone
should be stable and free of silts, fine materials, chemical preservatives,
grease, oil or any surface application that could contaminate water quality.
      2.   Wood:
         a.   Wood preservatives leach over time and degrade water quality. All
wood used in the lakeshore protection zone must be untreated and left in its
natural state. No preservatives, including varnish, stain, paint, linseed oil,
diesel fuel, creosote or any pressure treated preservatives, are allowed. This
prohibition does not prohibit the application of paint or stain as a routine
maintenance measure for any structure built prior to 1978 located landward of
the high water line which has been painted and stained on a routine basis in
the past.
         b.   Where wood is used for any project which would at sometime be in,
or over, the water, only solid wood can be used. This specifically excludes
plywood, particleboard, chipboard, etc.
      3.   Metal:
         a.   While metals are generally inert, except for oxidation, surface
applications of some foreign material (i.e., wet paint, grease, oil, etc.) can
degrade water quality. Any metal used in the lakeshore protection zone may be
painted or coated with an inert metal sealant (i.e., paint, plastic, rubber,
enamel, etc.) which has thoroughly dried/cured prior to its installation.
         b.   Minimum lubrication of critical metal components to allow
movement is allowed.
         c.   No metal used in the lakeshore protection zone may contain
deposits or a surface application of any of the following:
            (1)   Grease or oil (other than this subsection A3);
            (2)   Paint, varnish or coatings which have not been allowed to
thoroughly cure or dry outside the lakeshore protection zone;
            (3)   Any chemical or substance that will wash off or dissolve when
in contact with water.
      4.   Styrofoam Flotation Logs:
         a.   All dock flotation styrofoam must be extruded closed cell
polystyrene (blue or pink logs) unless encased in rotomolded floats (a specific
manufacturing process utilizing heavy gauge plastic covering).
         b.   All styrofoam flotation logs must be completely encased in solid
wood (excluding particleboard, plywood, etc.) or in metal, fiberglass or
plastic. Drain holes or a maximum of one-half inch (1/2") spacing between wood
boards may be allowed.
      5.   Asphalt:
         a.   Asphalt or similar petroleum based construction products are
prohibited, except for replacement shingles on nonconforming structures.
      6.   Concrete:
         a.   Concrete may be utilized only where structural strength and
location dictate no other alternative.
         b.   In all cases, concrete must be aesthetically shielded by the
creative use of rock or wood.
         c.   Wet concrete must not be poured into or allowed to come in
contact with the lake.
         d.   Concrete is expressly prohibited as a walkway or patio surface
within the lakeshore protection zone.
      7.   Rock or Stone:
         a.   Rock or stone is a preferred natural material for construction.
         b.   All rock or stone that will come in contact with the lake must be
free of silts, sands or fine materials.
         c.   Rock or stone from the immediate lakeshore protection zone may be
used for a project if its removal does not reduce the effectiveness of the
existing lakeshore armament or expose silts, sands, clays or fine materials.
   B.   Excavation or Filling of Materials:
      1.   The lake bed or lakeshore should be preserved in its natural
condition to the greatest extent possible, in order to protect water quality,
aquatic wildlife habitat, and the aesthetic value of the natural shoreline.
      2.   For all construction and projects in the lake or lakeshore
protection zone, sedimentation in the lake must be minimized to the greatest
extent possible, as a protection for aquatic habitat and water quality.
      3.   Large cobbles and boulders lying on the lake bottom and not part of
the lake bed armament may be handpicked or moved with a permit if for swimmer
or boater safety, provided that such handpicking can be done without excavating
any fine lake bed materials and that an armament of rock or gravel remains on
the lake bed in the affected areas.
      4.   The interface of fill materials with the lake water must be sloped
at no greater than two horizontal to one vertical (2:1) ratio in order to
dissipate wave energy. The face of the slope must be covered with suitable
materials and/or native vegetation to discourage soil erosion and slumping of
banks.
   C.   Erosion, Sedimentation and Storm Runoff:
      1.   The natural protective armament of the lake bed and lakeshore must
be preserved wherever possible. Any construction activity which will affect the
lakeshore protection zone must incorporate all necessary means to prevent
pollution of the lake, including erosion, sediment and storm runoff controls.
      2.   The proposed activity must not cause, directly or indirectly,
increased sedimentation, an increase in suspended sediments, or an increased
discharge of nutrients into the lake either during its construction or
utilization.
      3.   Any point source runoff which is diverted to the lake must be
terminated and filtered prior to entering the lakeshore protection zone.
   D.   Vegetation:
      1.   Preservation of Native Plants: Native plant species are an important
biological and aesthetic component of the lakeshore, and must be preserved
wherever possible. Natives may be more difficult to reestablish than cultivars,
since natives generally do not grow well in pots, are smaller and not as widely
available as cultivars and are adapted to specific sites and plant communities.
Once established, however, natives tend to grow better and require less
maintenance and water.
      2.   Stabilization of Erosive Areas: Adding native vegetation and soft
structure armoring is the preferred means of stabilizing erosive areas. Topsoil
may be allowed in quantities necessary for establishing and maintaining new
plantings.
      3.   Introduction of New Plants: New plants introduced into the lakeshore
protection zone must be native to the Flathead Valley or nativars whose form,
color, texture, and character approximates that of natives. A resource file on
native plants is available at the planning office.
      4.   Ground Cover: A finely ground bark (less than 1/2 inch in size) or
compost is recommended for ground cover in conjunction with the native plants.
      5.   Flower Gardens Prohibited: Flower gardens are prohibited in the
lakeshore protection zone.
      6.   Fertilizer Prohibited: Application of fertilizer, pesticide,
insecticide, or herbicide, is prohibited in the lakeshore protection zone.
      7.   Preservation of Healthy Trees: Healthy trees three inches (3") or
more in diameter as measured at eight inches (8") aboveground must be preserved
and removal is not permitted. In cases where a tree presents a safety hazard to
persons or property due to a structural defect or abnormal leaning as confirmed
by a professional arborist, the tree may be removed (with an approved lakeshore
permit) provided a similar native tree species of three inches (3") in
diameter, as measured at eight inches (8") above the ground, is planted within
five feet (5') of the old tree or an alternate location determined by the
planning office and maintained for a period of ten (10) years. If the tree dies
within the ten (10) year maintenance period, it must be replaced subject to
this section.
      8.   Denuding of Trees Is Prohibited: Dead branches can be removed from
trees. Removing live branches over ten foot (10') from the ground unless
touching a structure or powerline or creating a hazard requires an
administrative permit, and no live branches may be removed over twenty five
feet (25') high. A tree on which all limbs have been removed up to and over a
height of twenty five feet (25'), or over forty percent (40%) of trunk height,
will require the planting and maintenance of a future replacement tree in
accordance with subsection D7 of this section.
      9.   Removal of Dead Trees: A dead tree three inches (3") or more in
diameter as measured eight inches (8") above the ground may be removed with
approval from the jurisdictional planning office. If there are no other trees
over three inches (3") in diameter within eight feet (8') of the dead tree, a
new tree must be planted and maintained in accordance with subsection D7 of
this section.
         a.   Dead trees which must be removed must be felled away from the
lake unless circumstances prohibit. If a tree must be felled into the lake, all
material and debris must be immediately removed from the lake. All stumps must
be cut off at ground level and not removed from the lakeshore protection zone.
         b.   A tree is considered dead if it has been damaged beyond repair or
is an advanced state of decline where an insufficient amount of live tissue,
green leaves, limbs, or branches exist to sustain life as determined by a
certified arborist.
      10.   Prohibited Sprinkler Systems: Sprinkler systems with exposed spray
heads are prohibited in the lakeshore protection zone. Buried one-half inch (1/
2") drip lines are allowed.
   E.   Lawns and Grasses:
      1.   The establishment of a new lawn in the lakeshore protection zone is
prohibited. Such prohibited actions include grass seeding, placement of sod, or
the routine mowing and maintenance of native grasses as a lawn.
      2.   Grandfathered lawns which existed prior to the establishment of
lakeshore regulations, may be maintained by mowing, but not fertilized or
treated with any chemicals or pesticides.
      3.   Turf grass or nonnative vegetation, including grandfathered lawns,
once removed from or destroyed in the lakeshore protection zone must be
replaced with native vegetation as described in subsection D of this section.
   F.   Constructed Area:
      1.   The total of all constructed areas within the lake and lakeshore
protection zone must not exceed eight (8) square feet per each linear foot of
shoreline.
      2.   Excess constructed area and impervious cover is prohibited as it may
affect water quality, detract from the aesthetic values of the shoreline or
alter natural shoreline characteristics.
      3.   Impervious construction which increases the intensity or amount of
runoff channeled into the lake or adjoining areas is prohibited.
      4.   Dry laid stone used for pathways or on preexisting level patio areas
must be included in the calculated constructed surface area.
   G.   Material Storage and Debris:
      1.   Construction materials must not be stored in the lakeshore
protection zone unless no other alternative exists. A lakeshore permit
specifically allowing storage of materials in the lakeshore protection zone is
required.
      2.   Construction debris that remains in the lake or lakeshore protection
zone may affect the quality of the water, cause safety problems or detract from
the aesthetic value of the shoreline. All construction debris must be
immediately disposed of outside the lake and lakeshore protection zone in such
a manner and in such a location so as to prohibit its reentry into the lake.
   H.   Burning:
      1.   Burning of materials on the lake bed or lakeshore will cause a
degradation of water quality, and may create safety hazards or detract from
aesthetic characteristics of the shoreline. No burning is allowed lakeward of
the mean high water line.
      2.   Burning in the twenty foot (20') setback zone requires a lakeshore
construction permit and may only be allowed as a last resort where there is no
physical way to access or remove the debris from the lakeshore protection zone.
      3.   This subsection is not intended to prohibit small campfires above
the average high water line.
      4.   Burning may also be subject to restrictions or require a permit
under city or county code.
   I.   Setback Requirements:
      1.   All structures must meet the minimum setback requirements for the
type of structure proposed, as specified in subsequent subsections of this
chapter. Greater setbacks may be required by other zoning or ordinance
provisions.
      2.   Common facilities, constructed and shared by two (2) or more
property owners, are encouraged, as they would reduce the number of facilities
on the lake, thereby reducing potential impacts. Where such a situation exists,
setback requirements from the common property or riparian boundary lines may be
waived, provided that the application clearly specifies that the facilities are
to be used in common by such owners. A permit issued for common facilities is
granted on a conditional basis, and is valid only for the duration of mutual
agreement by the respective property owners to the conditions of the original
permit.
      3.   Stream and spring outlets on lakeshores are valuable aquatic and
aesthetic resources, as they provide spawning and rearing habitat for numerous
fish species, as well as a variety of food organisms. Structures must be set
back a minimum of twenty five feet (25') from ordinary stream high water for
streams and springs having a flow less than twenty five (25) cubic feet per
second (cfs). Streams and springs with higher flow volumes will be assessed on
an individual basis. Swift Creek, the Whitefish River, Lazy Creek and
Hellroaring Creek have flows above twenty five (25) cubic feet per second (cfs)
at some times during the year. Greater setbacks may be required by other zoning
or ordinance provisions.
      4.   Structures or activities adjacent to rivers, streams, and wetlands
may also be subject to floodplain and water quality protection regulations.
Portions of the lakeshore protection zone are also subject to floodplain
regulations.
      5.   Where no specific setback requirements for the specific type of
structure proposed have been established, the structure(s) must be set back
from the side property lines and/or riparian boundary lines based on the
property's lakeshore frontage. The setbacks are as follows:
 
Lakeshore Frontage (Feet)     Minimum Setback (Feet)
 
60 or less                    10.0
More than 60 but less than 75 12.5
75 or more                    15.0
 
   J.   Use of Mechanical Equipment:
      1.   Use of mechanical equipment has significant potential for damaging
the natural armament of the lakeshore and lake bed, exposing sediments,
damaging vegetation and scarring of sloped terrain and the lakeshore. The use
of mechanical equipment or any motorized vehicle in the lakeshore protection
zone requires a lakeshore permit. Limited use of a vehicle or mechanical
equipment for the seasonal removal or installation of permitted docks is exempt
from this requirement, but still subject to the following regulations.
      2.   Use of mechanical equipment in the lakeshore protection zone is
permitted only if the equipment does not come in contact with the lake; expose
silts or fine materials; or gouge, rut or otherwise damage the lakeshore or
vegetation.
      3.   Any piece of mechanical equipment operating in the lakeshore
protection zone must have available on hand a hazardous materials kit to
immediately address any leaks of fuel, oil, hydraulic fluid, or any other types
of spills of contaminants.
      4.   The lakeshore must be immediately restored to its condition prior to
construction. All equipment tracks must be raked or otherwise removed by hand
and any vegetation killed or damaged must be replaced with the largest similar
size and type of native plant available on a two (2) for one basis.
      5.   Temporary storage of vehicles, trailers, other equipment or
construction materials in the lakeshore protection zone is prohibited.
      6.   As a condition of the permit, the governing body may require that
hand tools be used in lieu of mechanical equipment, based on the scope and size
of the project or possible damage to the lakeshore zone due to excessive slope
or terrain.
   K.   Docks, Swim Docks, and Floating Trampolines:
      1.   One Dock Allowed: Only one dock is allowed per common waterfront
property ownership, unless an individual dwelling is constructed on each
separate and legally defined lot with independent water and sewage disposal, in
which case one dock is allowed per independent dwelling unit/lot. "Common
waterfront property ownership" is defined as multiple contiguous lots under one
family or related ownership, including fractional ownership in a corporation,
partnership or other legal entity. (This does not apply to marina
applications.)
      2.   Usage of Dock: Usage of a dock is limited to the properties applied
for in the permit application when the dock is nonconforming, or is granted
under variance, or is an expanded shared dock granted under subsection K14 of
this section.
      3.   Solid Docks: Solid docks (i.e., rock filled crib dock) or structures
which essentially block the transfer of water beneath the dock are not
permitted, as they impede current flows and, therefore, create stagnant water.
      4.   Setback of Docks: Docks must be placed in the middle of the property
ownership. Where this is not practical, the setback may be reduced to a minimum
of twenty feet (20') between any portion of the dock and the riparian boundary
property line. For setbacks from streams, creeks, rivers, etc., see subsection
I3 of this section.
      5.   Length of Docks: Docks must not exceed sixty feet (60') in length,
including any access ramp or gangway.
      For docks on Whitefish Lake:
         a.   If the water depth at sixty feet (60') from low water (measured
after August 15) is less than four feet (4') in depth, and cannot be moved to a
location on the property to achieve four feet (4') depth, then the total dock
length may be increased with an approved permit to the point at which water
depth equals four feet (4'), but not to exceed one hundred feet (100') in
maximum length, including gangway.
         b.   On docks exceeding sixty feet (60') in length, dock slips, shore
stations, and mooring cleats are limited to the outer forty feet (40') of the
overall length.
         c.   On docks exceeding sixty feet (60') in length, a "to scale" water
depth profile drawing from sixty (60) to one hundred feet (100') from high
water, prepared by a professional dock installer or other professional, is
required with the dock permit application.
         d.   Due to the high potential for interference with public navigation
and recreation, no dock can exceed one hundred feet (100') in total length,
including gangways.
      6.   Wing Length Of Dock: The wing length of a dock (see figure 2 of this
subsection above), whether it is a T, F, 4 or L shaped dock, must not exceed
thirty percent (30%) of the lot frontage or thirty feet (30'), whichever is
less.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3092.png]
      7.   Maximum Width Of Dock: The maximum width of all dock sections,
wings, and gangways must not exceed eight feet (8').
      8.   Flotation Systems in Docks: If foam or similar easily damaged
flotation systems are incorporated into the dock design, the material must be
completely encased in solid wood or a suitable impervious, noncorrosive
material such as aluminum or galvanized sheet metal so as to avoid the breakup
or scattering of materials. Plywood, particleboard, etc., must not be used.
Boards may be spaced up to one-half inch (1/2") apart on the bottom or drain
holes may be incorporated into other materials to aid in drainage. All foam
encased floating docks must be maintained according to these standards or else
be immediately and completely removed from the lakeshore protection zone.
      9.   Anchoring Of Docks: All floating docks must be suitably anchored to
the lake bottom to avoid drift. Anchoring methods are limited to cable,
galvanized chain or nylon or polypropylene rope attached to a suitable clean
weight such as solid clean concrete, rock or steel blocks or a temporary pipe
and post system which allows the dock sections to slide up and down.
      10.   Deteriorated Docks: Docks which have deteriorated to the extent
that they may contaminate the lake, such as having exposed white Styrofoam,
must be immediately repaired as necessary to eliminate the risk of
contamination or must be removed from the lakeshore protection zone.
      11.   Abandoned Docks: It is a violation of these regulations to abandon
docks or to otherwise allow docks or dock remnants to float out onto the lake
unsecured.
      12.   Repairing Materials On Docks: Repair or replacement of materials on
existing docks must be in accordance with these regulations.
      13.   Licensed Survey: After a permitted dock is installed, a licensed
survey of the property riparian boundaries, mean high water boundary, and/or
any impervious structures in the lakeshore protection zone may be required if
the governing body receives a complaint about a possible setback encroachment
or violation of maximum allowed constructed area square footages.
      14.   Shared Dock Standards: Shared docks must comply with the standards
found in this subsection K, except as otherwise specified below:
         a.   Multiple contiguous property owners or a single property owner
with multiple contiguous properties that combined exceeds two hundred (200)
linear feet of lake frontage may apply for a shared dock under this section.
         b.   The total wing width of a shared dock must not exceed sixty feet
(60'), regardless of configuration.
         c.   A minimum setback of forty feet (40') is required between both
riparian boundaries and any portion of a shared dock that exceeds thirty feet
(30') in total width.
         d.   Common shoreline dock facilities shared by two (2) or more owners
should be encouraged, as such facilities will reduce the overall environmental
impacts on the lake bed and lakeshore and ease navigational congestion on the
lake.
      15.   Swim Docks: Swim docks must comply with the following:
         a.   Swim docks must comply with all standards applicable to
conventional docks, except as described in subsections below.
         b.   No part of a swim dock may be located more than sixty feet (60')
from the shoreline at the current lake level.
         c.   The size of swim docks must not exceed one hundred (100) square
feet with no one dimension exceeding twelve feet (12').
         d.   Swim docks must have a minimum of eight inches (8") of visible
freeboard.
         e.   Only one swim dock or one conventional dock, but not both, is
permitted on property ownerships with less than one hundred feet (100') of lake
frontage. On property ownerships with one hundred feet (100') or more of lake
frontage, only one swim dock and one conventional dock is permitted.
         f.   A minimum setback of thirty five feet (35') is required between
both riparian boundaries and a swim dock.
         g.   Swim docks may be prohibited based on considerations of public
safety and congestion. Owners are advised that swim docks may create a
significant hazard for navigation. The city of Whitefish assumes no liability
for navigational accidents involving swim docks.
      16.   Floating Trampolines:
         a.   Floating trampolines and similar items are regulated under this
provision because of the large amount of lake coverage and tall profile.
         b.   The entire surface area of a floating trampoline and accessory
attachments must be included in the coverage calculation as provided for in
subsection F of this section.
         c.   A minimum setback of thirty five feet (35') is required between
both riparian boundaries and any portion of the floating trampoline and
attachments.
         d.   No part of a floating trampoline may be located more than sixty
feet (60') from the shoreline at the current water level.
         e.   Floating trampolines must be anchored to prevent encroachments
into the setbacks.
         f.   Floating trampolines may be prohibited based on considerations of
public safety and congestion. Owners are advised that floating trampolines may
create a significant hazard for navigation. The city of Whitefish assumes no
liability for navigational accidents involving floating trampolines.
   L.   Marinas:
      1.   Due to their size and concentration of public activity, marinas have
a high potential to impact the lake, lakeshore, open water navigation, and
neighboring property owners. A marina permit may be denied or additional
restrictions imposed, based on assessment of this impact.
      2.   A marina must be designed to accommodate only anticipated sizing and
capacity needs, to protect the navigational rights and safety of neighboring
property owners and recreational users of the lake, to ensure general
compatibility with the character of the area so as not to create an unwarranted
disturbance or nuisance, and to protect the quality of the water and aquatic
and wildlife habitat.
      3.   A marina may not be located immediately lakeward of a wetland area.
      4.   A minimum of one hundred feet (100') must remain open between any
portion of the marina dock structure and the side riparian boundaries.
      5.   Minimum twenty five foot (25') travel lanes must be provided between
dock structures for boats to travel.
      6.   "Private marinas" are defined as any dock facility serving the needs
of a homeowners' association, private housing development, resort facility, or
other limited group, and providing overnight dockage or moorage, and must
comply with the following:
         a.   Each marina must have a minimum of two hundred fifty feet (250')
of lake frontage.
         b.   The design standards for dockage are limited by and must comply
with subsection K of this section unless otherwise modified below.
         c.   If a marina meets all regulation criteria without requiring a
variance, and does not exceed sixty feet (60') in length, then an additional
gangway up to three feet by twelve feet (3' x 12') may be installed to access
the dock. This gangway is included in the constructed surface area for the
marina.
         d.   The maximum length of each individual boat slip must not exceed
twenty six feet (26').
         e.   The total amount of constructed surface per property in the
lakeshore protection zone must not exceed ten (10) square feet for each linear
foot of lakeshore frontage.
         f.   The amount of constructed surface located below the mean annual
high water line must not exceed eight (8) square feet for each linear foot of
lakeshore frontage.
         g.   The overall density of boats/boat slips provided must not exceed
one boat/boat slip per twenty (20) linear feet of lakeshore frontage.
         h.   Overnight mooring is only allowed in designated slips.
         i.   Private marinas may not incorporate boat ramps.
         j.   No retail sales or rental facilities are allowed on the site.
      7.   "Public marinas" are defined as providing boat slips and/or
services, without restriction, to the general public, and must comply with the
following:
         a.   Each marina must have a minimum of three hundred feet (300') of
lake frontage.
         b.   In addition to subsection K of this section, design standards for
docks, the maximum length of that portion of any dock extending over water is
one hundred feet (100').
         c.   If a marina meets all regulation criteria without requiring a
variance, and does not exceed sixty feet (60') in length, then an additional
gangway up to three feet by twelve feet (3' x 12') may be installed to access
the dock. This gangway must be included in the constructed surface area for the
marina.
         d.   The length of the individual boat slips may be sized according to
need.
         e.   The amount of constructed surface in the lakeshore protection
zone per property must not exceed fifteen (15) square feet for each linear foot
of lakeshore frontage.
         f.   The amount of constructed surface located below the mean annual
high water line must not exceed twelve (12) square feet for each linear foot of
lakeshore frontage.
         g.   The overall density of boats or boat slips provided must not
exceed one boat or boat slip per ten (10) linear feet of lakeshore frontage.
         h.   Overnight mooring is only allowed in designated slips.
         i.   One boat ramp per public marina may be constructed.
         j.   One shoreside sewage facility and one shoreside fuel station per
marina may be constructed.
         k.   Lake related rental services and retail sales of water use
related merchandise, such as boat fuel, oil and lubricants, fishing equipment
and personal items, are typically associated with the marina.
         l.   A distance of one hundred feet (100') waterward from the dock's
end may be required to be identified by buoys placed in the lake to indicate a
reduced boat speed so that no wake is produced. The reduction to no wake speed
may be required at a distance greater than one hundred feet (100') depending
upon the size of the marina and the size of the boats to be berthed.
         m.   Annual allocation of boat slips of a public marina must be on a
nonpreferential basis available to the general public as a random lottery, and
must be approved by the governing body or city staff.
         n.   The governing body may set other slip allocation, usage and
rental fee criteria which it may determine necessary to assure equitable access
by the general public.
      8.   If a private or public marina submits an application for
reconfiguration, the governing body may require compliance with current
lakeshore regulations.
      9.   The governing body will have the right to regularly inspect and
require compliance of a marina with its approved permit.
   M.   Shore Stations And Floating Boat Lifts:
      1.   Shore stations and floating boat lifts (which include shore stations
or floating docking stations designed for personal watercraft) must not be
located farther into the lake than the permitted dock length.
      2.   Shore stations and floating boat lifts must be located no closer
than twenty five feet (25') from a riparian boundary line. A greater setback
distance may be required if, in the opinion of the governing body, the
structure would likely infringe on navigation from the adjoining property, or
if the shore station would be located more than sixty feet (60') from the
existing shoreline.
      3.   The highest point on a shore station or floating boat lift must not
exceed ten feet (10') in height above the current water elevation of the lake.
      4.   Shore stations and floating boat lifts may have a roof cover on a
seasonal basis which is removed during the late fall, winter and spring periods
of nonuse. Said cover will be made of a nonreflective material. Earth tone
colors are preferred, such as: green, tan, brown and gray.
      5.   Shore stations may be placed on either side of the dock, provided
the required twenty five foot (25') setback can be maintained for both riparian
boundaries.
      6.   When a floating boat lift is installed in conjunction with a dock,
no section can result in an overall dock surface width exceeding eight feet
(8'). (See "Figure 4. Floating Boat Lifts", of this subsection.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3100.png]
 
      7.   The entire surface area of a floating boat lift or floating personal
watercraft docking station must be included in the coverage calculation as
provided for in subsection F of this section.
      8.   The entire surface area of canopies that cover shore stations, boat
slips, or docks must be included in the constructed area calculation, as
provided in subsection F of this section. For a property with a grandfathered
nonconforming structure in the lakeshore zone, an exemption to this requirement
is allowed for a single canopy if the total constructed surface area, excluding
the grandfathered nonconforming structure, does not exceed the maximum
constructed area as provided for in subsection F of this section.
      9.   An existing shore station may be replaced with a new shore station
without a lakeshore permit, provided that placement is identical to, and canopy
size is no greater than, the shore station being removed.
   N.   Boat Ramps and Boat Rail Systems:
      1.   Private boat ramps are prohibited, as they increase sedimentation in
the lake, diminish water quality, alter natural shoreline characteristics, and
have the potential to introduce aquatic invasive species.
      2.   Public boat ramps must comply with the following:
         a.   Footings and/or the base of the boat ramp must be constructed
below the preexisting grade of the shoreline.
         b.   All material excavated from the lakeshore to construct the boat
ramp and not used as the ramp foundation material must be immediately and
completely removed from the lakeshore protection zone and deposited in such a
manner as to prohibit its reentry into the lake.
         c.   Boat ramps must be of the same elevation as the preconstruction
lake bed and lakeshore elevation.
         d.   No boat ramp can exceed six hundred (600) square feet in surface
area waterward of the average high water line.
         e.   Maximum grade must not exceed fifteen percent (15%) and no
natural slope in excess of thirty percent (30%) grade may be disturbed by
construction of a boat ramp.
         f.   All ramps must be finished with nonskid surface to ensure maximum
traction for vehicles launching and retrieving boats.
         g.   Boat ramp edges, if deemed necessary, may be riprapped or soft
structure armored in order to prevent erosive undercutting.
      3.   All existing private and public boat ramps must comply with
13-5-2, Aquatic Invasive Species Prevention, and the City of Whitefish
watercraft inspection and decontamination protocols.
         a.   Aquatic invasive species inspections are required for all
launching vessels during standard hours of operation. Watercraft must be
inspected via an on-line certification process after standard hours of
operation and after the staffing season at the inspection stations.
      4.   Boat rail systems must comply with the following:
         a.   Rail systems must be manufactured and installed in a manner which
permits removal during winter months to avoid ice damage.
         b.   The rails of the rail launching system must not exceed four
inches (4") in height and the rail system must lie on and follow the grade of
the existing lake bed and lakeshore.
         c.   One boat rail system is allowed per property ownership, subject
to a permit. The boat rail carriage may have a canopy (subject to subsections
M4 and M8 of this section) if it is stored outside of the lakeshore protection
zone when the boat is not in use.
         d.   Boat rail systems must be located no closer than twenty five feet
(25') from a riparian boundary line.
         e.   Rail systems for trams, planes, or other uses are not permitted
in the Lakeshore Protection Zone.
   O.   Riprap, Retaining Walls, and Soft Structure Armoring:
      1.   Retaining walls and surface-stacked riprap are at odds with the
Policy Criteria of 13-2-6 as they significantly alter shoreline
characteristics, create an unnatural shoreline, degrade lake quality and
ecology, create a visual impact discordant to natural scenic value, and cause
alteration of wave actions with resulting shoreline erosion on neighboring
properties. Consequently, such methods are prohibited and require a major
variance to install, with the exception that riprap installed subsurface as
part of a dynamic gravel beach or other bioengineered solution is permitted.
Retaining walls are prohibited except as a replacement for an existing failing
retaining wall, or in a situation where bank failure is threatening a dwelling
unit or where riprap has been installed and proven inadequate in bank
stabilization. Natural shoreline restoration using soft structure armoring or
bioengineering at or above the high-water mark and/or the installation of
dynamic gravel beaches are the preferred methods of erosion control and should
be used whenever possible. In order to apply for a variance for new or
replacement retaining walls or riprap, a licensed engineer must demonstrate
that soft-structure armoring, bioengineering or dynamic gravel beaches are
ineffective solutions.
      2.   In situations where a retaining wall obtains a variance to be
constructed, the following standards apply:
         a.   Retaining walls must be built at or landward of the mean annual
high water elevation and must conform to the contours of the existing
shoreline.
         b.   Any existing wall must be completely removed from the lakeshore
protection zone and the replacement wall must be constructed in the same
location as the existing wall or further upland.
         c.   A replacement retaining wall must be constructed to the same
height, or lower than, the existing wall to be removed. A new retaining wall
must be constructed to the minimum height necessary to stabilize the bank, but
in no case can it exceed four feet (4') in height measured from the downhill
finish grade. Where greater heights must occur, a series of terraced or stepped
walls must be used. The width of a retaining terrace must be no less than three
feet (3') and must incorporate native landscaping.
         d.   All material excavated for placement of the footings may be used
as backfill behind the wall or else must be deposited outside of the lakeshore
protection zone.
         e.   Backfill will be limited to that amount necessary to reestablish
the preexisting slope and contours of the landward side, but must not extend
closer than two inches (2") from the top of the new retaining wall in order to
inhibit surface water runoff which may carry fertilizer, herbicides,
pesticides, etc.
         f.   If removal of an existing retaining wall is not feasible or will
cause bank failure or threaten a dwelling unit, and other preferred solutions
are shown by a licensed engineer to be ineffective and a variance is obtained,
a new wall may be constructed immediately lakeward of the existing wall.
         g.   Preferred retaining wall construction materials, in order of
preference, are: vegetated retaining walls, rock faced concrete retaining wall,
interlocking precast concrete stone (i.e., keystone block).
         h.   A detailed plan showing the exact location of the wall, the cross
section and dimensions of the wall, and proposed facing and/or vegetative
material must be included with the permit and variance application.
      3.   Riprap placed on the shoreline surface is a last resort method of
erosion control and is limited to areas where active shoreline erosion is
clearly present and endangering conforming structures or mature healthy trees,
and where other solutions including dynamic gravel beaches and soft structure
armoring have been installed and/or shown to be ineffectual by a licensed
engineer or landscape architect. If a variance is approved, surface riprap
placement must meet the following standards:
         a.   Vegetated riprap or a combination of riprap and soft structure
armoring is the preferred method for any riprap application.
         b.   Riprap must be placed at or landward of the mean annual high
water elevation.
         c.   Riprap placement must follow the contour of the existing
shoreline, and be sloped at no greater than two horizontal to one vertical (2:
1) ratio in order to dissipate wave energy.
         d.   Riprap must be stacked no more than eighteen inches (18") in
vertical height. In areas where active erosion clearly exceeds eighteen inches
(18"), riprap height is limited to the varying elevation of the active erosion,
which must be surveyed and staked by a licensed surveyor, and clearly
documented in a detailed elevation plan included with the lakeshore permit
application. A topographical survey showing all proposed riprap placement in
the lakeshore protection zone is required as part of a permit requesting
riprap.
         e.   Stone used for riprap is limited to native rock picked from the
shoreline and hand stacked, or nonangular rock whose appearance is similar to
native shoreline stone. Size of imported rock must be six (6) through twelve
inch (12") nominal diameter, eighteen inch (18") maximum diameter for exposed
rocks, and must be free of silts, sands or fine materials unless utilizing
vegetated riprap. Imported rock or stone that does not conform to these size
requirements, or whose appearance is not similar to native shoreline stone, is
a violation of these regulations and will be required to be removed and
replaced.
         f.   Prior to placement of the riprap, filter fabric is required to be
placed along the shoreline and incorporated into the riprap design to inhibit
erosion and the washing of fine materials through the riprap.
         g.   Riprap being converted to vegetated riprap or used sub-surface to
as part of a dynamic gravel beach requires a standard permit and not a
variance.
         h.   Live trees and native vegetation must be left in place and the
riprap placed around it, taking care not to damage the bark or vegetation.
         i.   Gabion baskets are not allowed.
      4.   Soft-structure armoring, bioengineering, dynamic gravel beaches, and
natural shoreline restoration are the preferred methods of erosion control and
must be used in all situations where active lakeshore erosion is present and
threatening mature trees or structures.
      5.   Placement of boulders for landscaping purposes is prohibited.
   P.   Beach Gravel Applications:
      1.   Swim Beach Restoration: Addition of gravel for swim beach
restoration is allowed on a case-by-case basis, subject to the following
requirements:
         a.   Application of gravel is allowed only where the predominant
existing surface is gravel. New material must match the native material as
closely as possible.
         b.   Application of gravel for swim beach restoration is not permitted
in the following areas: sites covered predominately by vegetation; over
existing vegetation above mean high water; sites that are predominantly silts
or fine materials; and below average low water.
         c.   Placement of gravel directly into the lake is prohibited for swim
beach restoration.
         d.   All gravel fill for swim beach restoration must be clean, washed
gravel of three-fourths inch (3/4") to one and one-half inch (11/2") diameter,
free of silts and fine materials. Mixed sand and pea-gravel is also acceptable.
Gravel type and color must approximate the existing materials on the adjacent
lakeshore.
         e.   Maximum fill depth for swim beach restoration is six inches (6")
to one foot (1'), including existing gravel depth.
         f.   The volume of gravel for swim beach restoration must not exceed
one cubic yard per eight (8) linear feet of lake frontage.
         g.   Application of gravel is permitted only once every ten (10) years
to supplement a stable gravel beach. Reapplication of gravel for swim beaches
where it has predominantly either washed away, silted in or revegetated over
time is prohibited.
      2.   Dynamic Gravel Beaches: Addition of prescriptive substrate to create
a dynamic gravel beach or wave break to reduce visible shoreline erosion and
enhance habitat may be allowed with a permit on a case-by-case basis, subject
to the following requirements:
         a.   The applicant must use a qualified professional to prepare a
technical letter demonstrating any active erosion on site and whether the site
is suitable for a dynamic gravel beach or wave break due to its location and
existing beach conditions, and the application must be supported with
illustrations, sections, and other evidence including engineering formulas
showing proposed depth of fill and type of prescriptive substrate materials for
the wave break are appropriate to function as a dynamic beach in storm
conditions and reduce active beach erosion within the Lakeshore Protection Zone
         b.   Placement of prescriptive substrate directly into the lake is
allowed for dynamic beaches, wave breaks and habitat restoration during low
water with an approved lakeshore permit and floodplain permit.
         c.   Dynamic gravel beaches must not exceed two cubic yards of fill
per each linear foot of lake frontage.
         d.   All fill must be clean and washed. Prescriptive substrate type
and color must approximate the existing materials on the adjacent lakeshore.
   Q.   Dredging and Filling:
      1.   Any work that alters a shoreline and/or high water line to extend
private property or make a beach wider by removal or addition of material is
prohibited unless permitted as a dynamic gravel beach. If a shoreline is
altered, then restoration must be to the more stringent of the following two
(2) guidelines, as determined by the governing body:
         a.   A uniform topography and high water line as delineated by the
immediately adjacent properties on both sides.
         b.   A topography and high water line as can be determined by archive
photos taken prior to the alteration.
      2.   Stacking or placement of new rock anywhere in the lakeshore
protection zone requires a variance (see subsection O, "Riprap And Retaining
Walls", of this section) and should only be used when "soft" structure
solutions such as the installation of large woody material along the high water
elevation and the revegetation of native plants within the lakeshore protection
zone have already been applied and are shown to be ineffectual.
      3.   Dredging of a lake bed or lakeshore may have adverse effects due to
suspension of fine materials, resuspension of nutrients and toxic materials,
exposure of stable lake bed sediments to unstable conditions, removal of lake
bed armament and creation of steep bench areas. All dredging permits require a
major variance.
      4.   Dredging for the purpose of increasing the water depth of an area or
creating an artificial harbor or lagoon is not permitted.
      5.   Dredging for the purpose of removing accumulated silt, sand or
gravel directly adjacent to an existing structure is only permitted with a
variance if all excavated materials are removed entirely from the lake and
lakeshore areas and deposited so as to prohibit their reentry into the lake.
      6.   Dredging for the purpose of removing accumulated silt, sand or
gravel which blocks access to a docking area is only permitted with a variance
if such area to be dredged is less than five hundred (500) square feet.
      7.   Dredging and/or filling, if permitted through a variance, is only
allowed between August 15 and April 15 when the lake is at low water.
      8.   Filling of a portion of a lake may have adverse effects due to
destruction of an aquatic environment, loss of habitat for fish and wildlife,
creation of an unnatural shoreline, creation of steep bench areas and
alteration of current flows and wave actions. All permits for the purpose of
adding fill below the mean high water line, except swim beach maintenance or
for gravel wave breaks and/or habitat restoration as described in subsection P
of this section, require a major variance.
      9.   Fill projects for the purpose of expanding existing land areas are
not permitted.
      10.   Discharge of fill material directly into the lake is not permitted
unless utilized as part of a permitted dynamic gravel breach installation.
      11.   Fill for engineered dynamic gravel beaches or gravel wave breaks
requires a standard lakeshore permit as well as a floodplain permit.
      12.   Filling of wetlands adjacent to a lake is prohibited as it may have
adverse effects on water quality due to destruction of an aquatic environment,
loss of habitat for fish and wildlife, loss of water storage capacity and loss
of the natural storm runoff cleansing functions and the natural nutrient
entrapment functions of wetlands.
      13.   Permits for any dredging and filling may also be required by the
department of natural resources and conservation and the U.S. army corps of
engineers. A floodplain permit will be required.
      14.   Any dredging or filling requires a turbidity curtain be deployed
along with an approved turbidity monitoring plan, and in no case can turbidity
exceed 2.5 times the natural background conditions as determined by a
turbidimeter (NTU).
   R.   Utility Lines (Electrical, Sewer, Water, Wells):
      1.   Electrical Lines:
         a.   Electrical lines are unsightly and potentially dangerous in or
near a water environment. No permanent overhead electrical lines are allowed in
the lakeshore protection zone.
         b.   All lighting on existing grandfathered structures must be
designed to reflect light away from abutting or adjacent properties and the
lakeshore protection zone.
         c.   Low voltage pathway lighting, no greater than two feet (2') in
height may be permitted. Such lighting must be downcast and shielded.
         d.   No permanent lighting on docks is allowed.
         e.   No other lighting is allowed in the lakeshore protection zone, as
it can be distracting, hazardous to navigation and contribute to an unnatural
setting.
         f.   All lighting within the lakeshore protection zone must be dark
skies compliant.
      2.   Sewer Lines/Disposal Facilities:
         a.   Domestic sewer lines or components are prohibited in the
lakeshore protection zone.
         b.   Municipal/community sewer lines, lift stations and other
associated facilities are prohibited in the lakeshore protection zone.
         c.   Shoreside pumpout facilities may be placed with a permit in
public or private marinas or public parks.
            (1)   Such facilities must receive approval of the Montana
Department of Environmental Quality, the Flathead City-County Health Department
and/or any other government body with jurisdiction.
            (2)   Such facilities must include equipment to pump or otherwise
receive and transfer contents of vessel holding tanks into a sewage retention
and/or disposal system located outside the lakeshore protection zone.
            (3)   Such facilities must be designed and maintained using the
latest best management practices, and an environmental impact analysis must be
submitted with any application for such facility.
      3.   Water Lines:
         a.   A water line must be located at least ten feet (10') from either
side property/riparian boundary line.
         b.   Directional horizontal underground boring or drilling is the only
permitted method of installing waterlines on Whitefish Lake, subject to the
following standards:
            (1)   Surface entrance of boring activity must occur outside the
Lakeshore Protection Zone.
            (2)   Boring must not interfere with, interrupt, or endanger
surface and activity thereon, and any surface settlement must be monitored and
reported.
            (3)   If boring operation is discontinued due to obstruction or
other reasons, the abandoned portion must be plugged or otherwise filled using
best practices.
         c.   Trenching in the lakeshore to install waterlines is prohibited
unless boring is not possible due to obstructions. If trenching is necessary, a
minor variance must first be obtained. The following standards apply:
            (1)   All material excavated from the trench shall be replaced back
into the trench as backfill. Any material which is not replaced back into the
trench shall be completely removed from the lakeshore protection zone.
            (2)   In areas where there is a rock layer on the surface of the
lake bed or lakeshore, such rock shall be removed and set aside, then replaced
as a protective layer subsequent to the excavation.
            (3)   In areas where no rock layer exists, the replaced dirt shall
be compacted and consolidated in order to prevent erosion. Additional cover,
such as gravel, a rock layer or vegetation, may also be required.
            (4)   Following installation, the lake bed shall be returned to its
condition prior to construction.
            (5)   A trenching machine may extend its bucket or digger into the
lake to extend the trench below low water line of the lake.
            (6)   At no time shall the wheels of any vehicle come in contact
with the lake.
            (7)   Only the minimum amount of material necessary to lay the line
shall be removed from the trench.
         d.   That portion of the water line which is not buried and does lie
exposed on the bottom of the lakeshore must be weighted to prohibit flotation
or snagging.
         e.   Water lines using submersible pumps may incorporate an electrical
line, but all such work and installation must be done in accordance with the
state uniform plumbing and electrical codes. State electrical code requires a
ground fault interruption (GFI) breaker on all water pumps. The electrical line
must be installed in conduit for protection and maintenance accessibility.
         f.   No water line shall lie on top of or be attached to a floating
dock or raft.
         g.   Proof of water rights from the State are required to install a
water line.
      4.   Wells:
         a.   No well can be drilled or developed in the lakeshore protection
zone.
         b.   For wells located outside of the lakeshore protection zone, when
originally developing and pumping the well, the silt laden water must not be
allowed to flow into the lakeshore protection zone and lake.
   S.   Fuel Tanks:
      1.   Fuel spills into the lake can create serious water quality hazards
and may impair fish and wildlife habitat. No bulk fuel tanks will be placed
over the water. All tanks must be landward of the lakeshore protection zone.
      2.   A pressure shutoff valve must be located next to the bulk tank on
the line, landward of the lakeshore protection zone.
      3.   All fuel handling must be outside the main berthing area unless
weather or lake exposure conditions are unfavorable for such a location. Any
fueling stations, other than bulk tanks, must be located near an exit by water
from the berthing area or at some location from which, in case of fire aboard
an adjoining boat, the stricken craft may be quickly removed without
endangering other boats.
      4.   Fuel stations must only be allowed in a public marina or a public
recreation site.
      5.   Fuel stations must be designed and maintained using the latest best
management practices, and an environmental impact analysis must be submitted
with any application for such facility.
   T.   Buoys:
      1.   Unregulated buoy placement is prohibited on the lake, as it creates
visual pollution, may obstruct open waters and, when done by nonlakeshore
owners, infringes on property owners' usable space.
      2.   A buoy will only be permitted if placement will not cause a
potential safety hazard or interfere with navigation and recreation.
      3.   A permitted buoy must be installed subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   The buoy must be at least twelve inches (12") in diameter and
constructed of plastic or dense foam which is light colored and reflective for
maximum visibility. Logs, wood, metal barrels, and milk cartons are prohibited.
         b.   A buoy which has deteriorated to less than twelve inches (12") in
diameter or is failing to float for adequate visibility is a navigational
hazard and must be immediately removed from the lake.
         c.   The buoy must be suitably anchored to the lake bottom to avoid
drift. The anchor must be clean, solid, nonpolluting material such as concrete,
rock or steel blocks.
         d.   The line between the buoy and the anchor must be cable,
galvanized chain or weighted nylon/polypropylene rope to prevent floating.
         e.   The buoy and anchor must be placed within one hundred feet (100')
of the mean annual high water line.
         f.   The distance from the buoy to a moored boat must not exceed
twelve feet (12').
         g.   Buoys are not permitted on lots less than seventy five feet (75')
in width. The buoy must be centered on the property or placed such that the
farthest swing of a buoy moored boat in the prevailing winds is twenty five
feet (25') from the riparian boundary.
         h.   Only one buoy or boat anchor is allowed per common waterfront
property ownership. "Common waterfront property ownership" is defined as
multiple contiguous lots under one family or related ownership, including
fractional ownership in a corporation, partnership or other legal entity.
         i.   The user of the buoy boat anchor must be the lakeshore property
owner immediately landward and adjacent to the site or an individual who has
the owner's specific permission.
         j.   State law requires any boat or other watercraft attached or
anchored to a buoy must maintain at all times between sunset and sunrise, a
thirty two (32) point light (a light visible at all times from all directions
for a 360 degree field of view).
         k.   "No wake" and similar message sign buoys are subject to the all
the same above requirements as mooring and swim buoys.
      4.   An existing buoy may be replaced with a new buoy without a lakeshore
permit, provided that placement is identical to the buoy being removed. Buoy
anchors must be completely removed from the lake when permanently removing
buoys. Leaving anchors in the lakebed by cutting buoy ropes or chains is
prohibited.
      5.   Swim floats secured with lines for the purpose of marking a swim
area are only allowed for public beaches, and private or public marinas, and
require a permit. The buoy lines may be located no closer than twenty feet
(20') from the riparian property line, and no more than sixty feet (60') from
the shoreline.
   U.   Boathouses and Boat Shelters:
      1.   Boathouses and boat shelters are not allowed in the lakeshore
protection zone.
      2.   Existing grandfathered boathouses or boat shelters in the lakeshore
protection zone must be maintained subject to subsection Z, "Nonconforming
Structures", of this section.
   V.   Decks:
      1.   Decks, including decks on top of, or balconies cantilevered from,
boathouses, storage buildings, dwelling units, etc., are prohibited in the
lakeshore protection zone.
      2.   Existing grandfathered decks in the lakeshore protection zone must
be maintained subject to subsection Z, "Nonconforming Structures", of this
section.
   W.   Stairways, Walkways and Pathways:
      1.   Stairways, walkways, and pathways must have a maximum width of four
feet (4'), and be designed and constructed in a manner which provides the most
direct access to the lake with minimum environmental and visual impact.
      2.   Pathways on existing grade with embedded steps of stone or untreated
timbers are preferred to constructed walkways or elevated stairways. For
pathways, only the stone or timber steps are subject to the maximum allowable
constructed area in subsection F of this section.
      3.   Stairways and walkways constructed of impervious material, including
dry laid stone, are subject to the maximum allowable constructed area in
subsection F of this section.
      4.   Elevated stairways must follow the natural grade of the existing
shoreline, and no portion of the walking surface of the stairway or landing can
be situated higher than two (2) vertical feet above the underlying lakeshore.
      5.   Stairways must be constructed of wood composite (i.e., Trex) or
untreated wood left in its natural (unpainted) condition. Stairways or walkways
of poured in place concrete are prohibited.
      6.   Stairway railings are permitted. Railings must not extend higher
than four feet (4') above the stairway walking surface and must have a
nonornate, visually open design. Railings must be constructed of wood composite
(i.e., Trex) or untreated wood left in its natural (unpainted) condition or
metal painted an earth tone color by the manufacturer prior to installation.
      7.   Steep lakeshore properties, where stairway construction standards
cannot be met, may lack reasonable access to the lake and must be considered
view lots.
   X.   Fences And Hedges:
      1.   Fences or hedges within the lakeshore protection zone are only
allowed upon a showing of hardship such as where a private residential property
abuts a park, resort, commercial, or other incompatible use.
      2.   The maximum height of a fence or hedge is six feet (6'), or lower if
determined necessary to protect the viewshed from neighboring properties.
      3.   All fences must maintain at least fifty percent (50%) open space in
their design.
      4.   Solid fences and barbwire fencing are prohibited.
      5.   Fences or hedges must not extend waterward of the mean annual high
water level.
   Y.   Dwelling Units:
      1.   No permanent or temporary dwelling units, or portions thereof, will
be constructed within the lakeshore protection zone, as they concentrate human
activities on the shoreline, obstruct scenic views, create impervious surfaces,
increase surface storm runoff into the lake, and diminish water quality.
      2.   No temporary structures, including tents for commercial use, will be
erected within the lakeshore protection zone.
      3.   Existing grandfathered dwelling units, or portions thereof, which
are located in the lakeshore protection zone must be maintained in conformance
with subsection Z, "Nonconforming Structures", of this section.
      4.   Inhabited houseboats are not permitted to be moored or anchored in
Whitefish Lake.
      5.   No boat or watercraft can be occupied overnight for a period longer
than seven (7) days.
   Z.   Nonconforming Structures:
      1.   Continued and Maintained Building Or Structure: Any nonconforming
building or structure may be continued and maintained, provided there is no
physical change other than necessary maintenance and permitted repair.
      2.   Routine or Seasonal Maintenance: Routine or seasonal maintenance may
be completed without requiring a permit. See "maintenance" as defined in
section
13-1-5 of this title. All materials must conform with subsection A,
"Construction Materials", of this section.
      3.   Repair: A permit is required when repairs include replacement of
structural or foundation components or require a building permit. Any
improvements not present in the non-conforming structure prior to such repair
are not permitted other than minor changes in materials. See "repair" as
defined in section
13-1-5 of this title. All materials must conform with subsection A,
"Construction Materials", of this section.
      4.   Change in Ownership: In the case of a change in ownership or
management of an existing nonconforming building or structure, no changes may
be made in the nature or character of such nonconforming use.
      5.   Storage Shed or Boathouse: A nonconforming storage shed or boathouse
in the lakeshore protection zone may not be altered or improved in any manner
which might result in a change of use. Change of use includes adding heat,
plumbing, roof top decking, or similar improvements.
      6.   Replacement/Restoration of Nonconforming Structures Due to Fire or
Other Calamity:
         a.   A nonconforming building or structure, including a house or
boathouse, having been damaged or partially destroyed by fire or other calamity
or has otherwise deteriorated to an extent not exceeding fifty percent (50%) of
its real value, exclusive of the foundations, at any time, may be restored to
its immediately previous use existing at the time of partial destruction.
Whenever a nonconforming house or boathouse is damaged in excess of fifty
percent (50%), as stated above, the repair or reconstruction must conform to
the requirements of these regulations and the floodplain regulations. All work
exceeding routine maintenance requires a permit.
         b.   The percentage of loss resulting from fire or other calamity for
a nonconforming structure is defined as the cost to repair divided by the fair
market value of the structure (less foundation, land, and location) prior to
the damage. The cost to repair includes the value of all materials, labor and
services used for a project.
      7.   Enlargements: A building or structure which is nonconforming must
not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such building or structure,
including such addition and enlargements, is made to conform to the
requirements of these regulations (permit required).
      8.   Other Than Natural Disaster: Any nonconforming use or structure
which is eliminated or reduced in size or scale by a means other than natural
disaster or calamity may only be replaced, reestablished or enlarged according
to these regulations (permit required).
      9.   Remodeling: Existing dwelling units situated in the lakeshore
protection zone may be remodeled and maintained in accordance to the following
standards:
         a.   Dwelling units represent concentrations of human activities. Such
activities are essentially land based with people entering the aquatic
environment only for relatively short periods of time for recreational
purposes. Dwelling units are potentially harmful to the lake due to the
following: intrusion of nonaquatic land use in an aquatic environment; creation
of impervious surfaces; increasing surface storm runoff into the lake;
concentrating human activities on the shoreline; obstruction of scenic views
and possible sewer leakage. No permanent or temporary dwelling units or
portions thereof, can be constructed within the lakeshore protection zone. This
includes roof overhangs, drip lines, balconies, bay windows, chimneys, decks,
etc.
         b.   Existing dwelling units situated in the lakeshore protection zone
may be remodeled and maintained, provided the footprint is not expanded and the
building height is limited to twenty five feet (25') as measured from the
finished grade nearest the shoreline to the highest point on the building, or
is limited to the existing height, if the structure already exceeds twenty five
feet (25') in height.
         c.   Construction materials must conform with subsection A of this
section and must be of a nonreflective nature. If paint is used, it must be of
earth toned colors.
      10.   Grandfathered Dock: A dock provides primary recreational access to
the lake. Consequently, a nonconforming dock which exceeds allowable
constructed surface area due to other grandfathered nonconforming structures
existing in the lakeshore protection zone, or exceeds maximum allowable length
which existed prior to establishment of lakeshore regulations, may be replaced
with an approved lakeshore permit if the following conditions are met:
         a.   The replacement dock does not increase overall length, maximum
width, or total constructed surface area of the existing dock.
         b.   The installation location does not reduce riparian setbacks from
the existing dock.
         c.   The replacement dock complies with all other regulations.
         d.   Additional unpermitted construction area has not been added
within the Lakeshore Protection Zone.
      11.   Concrete Structures: Vertical, nonconforming concrete structures
such as retaining walls or foundations in the lakeshore protection zone may be
covered with thin stone veneer. The veneer must be no greater than three inches
(3") thick, of an earth tone color, irregular size, and a course texture that
blends in with the natural stone of the lake and the wooded surroundings.
Cultured stone is the preferred product due to lighter weight and less
disturbance of the lakeshore protection zone during construction. The exact
surfaces to be covered, as well as the final sample selection, must be approved
by the lakeshore protection committee and the city council via a standard
permit. In adhering the stone or rock, no adhesive, concrete, grout, or other
product is allowed to come in contact with the lake. Additional measures may be
required to minimize construction impact within the lakeshore protection zone,
and any disturbed areas must be restored to their preexisting conditions. If
during construction it is determined that the veneer cannot be structurally
supported, any change to the project must be approved through a permit
amendment.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 11-02, 3-7-2011; Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
13-4-1: Variances
13-4-2: Amendments
13-4-3: Liability
13-4-4: Violations; Penalty
13-4-1: VARIANCES:
   A.   General Criteria:
      1.   Minor Variances: Minor variances from the construction requirements
or design standards of these regulations may be granted when the governing body
determines the following conditions are met:
         a.   Due to unusual circumstances, a strict enforcement of such
requirements and standards would result in undue hardship;
         b.   No reasonable alternatives exist which do meet the standards
herein; and
         c.   Granting of the variance will not have adverse impacts on a lake
or lakeshore in terms of section 13-2-6, "Policy Criteria For Issuance Of A
Permit", of this title.
         d.   Alternatively to subsections A-1-a and A-1-b of this section, the
granting of a variance would result in a general and universal public benefit.
      2.   Major Variances: A variance request will be considered major when
any of the following criteria are met:
         a.   The variance request does not meet the requirements of subsection
A1 of this section;
         b.   The variance request deviates substantially from the construction
requirements or design standards of these regulations; or
         c.   The variance request creates a major environmental impact.
   B.   Review Procedures:
      1.   Minor Variances:
         a.   The lakeshore protection committee will review an application for
a minor variance from these regulations for conformity to the above criteria
and then make a recommendation to the city council as to whether to approve or
deny or to modify the application.
         b.   The city council will consider the lakeshore protection
committee's recommendation and act upon the application. It may grant, modify
or deny the variance request.
      2.   Major Variances:
         a.   When staff, the lakeshore protection committee, or the governing
body determines that a major variance is required, it will notify the applicant
of said decision.
         b.   If a major variance is required, the applicant must prepare and
submit, at their expense, an environmental impact assessment. The environmental
impact assessment must contain:
            (1)   Description of the proposed project;
            (2)   Description of, and the reason for, the major variance being
considered;
            (3)   Description of existing conditions;
            (4)   Description of anticipated impacts as they relate to each of
the policy criteria in section 13-2-6 of this title;
            (5)   Alternatives to the proposed project, which would not require
a major variance; and
            (6)   Any other required information.
         c.   The lakeshore protection committee will review the application
for major variance and make a recommendation to the community development
board.
         d.   The community development board will review the information and
make a recommendation to the city council.
         e.   The city council, upon receipt of all materials and
recommendations, will hold a public hearing on the proposed action. Notice of
the time and place of the public hearing must be published at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation not less than fifteen (15) nor more than
thirty (30) days prior to the date of the hearing.
         f.   Following the public hearing, the city council must act upon the
application and may grant, modify or deny the variance request.
(Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-4-2: AMENDMENTS:
These regulations may be amended. Prior to adopting any proposed amendment, the
Whitefish city council must hold a public hearing thereon. Notice of the time
and place of the public hearing must be published at least once in a newspaper
of general circulation not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty
(30) days prior to the date of hearing. Records of amendments to these
regulations must be maintained by the governing body in a form convenient for
use.
(Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-4-3: LIABILITY:
The permittee can not hold the governing body or any of its agents liable for
any damage that may occur to his/her property as a direct or indirect result of
the issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; amd. Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
13-4-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   A person, partnership, association, company, corporation or contractor
who violates the conditions of a permit issued under these regulations, fails
to obtain a permit prior to performing work requiring a permit under these
regulations, or who violates any provision(s) of these regulations, commits a
misdemeanor, and on conviction may be sentenced to thirty (30) days in the
city/county jail, fined five hundred dollars ($500.00), or both. A person,
partnership, association, company, corporation or contractor who violates the
conditions of a permit issued under these regulations, fails to obtain a permit
prior to performing work requiring a permit under these regulations, or who
violates any provision(s) of these regulations, commits a municipal infraction,
and is subject to the civil penalties provided in section
1-4-4 of this code. Each separate violation of these regulations will
constitute a separate offense. For instance, each tree removed or violation of
a different subsection requirement will constitute a separate offense. Each day
that the violation exists beyond a restoration deadline date will constitute a
separate offense. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat the
violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
      1.   The conditions of a permit will be considered to have been violated
if work exceeds the scope and conditions of the permit in dimension, type or
quality of materials, type of equipment used, or the extent of the work
permitted.
      2.   Fines and civil penalties collected under this section will be paid
to the general fund of the governing body, for the purpose of administering
these regulations.
   B.   In the event that any building, structure or improvement is erected,
reconstructed, altered, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure,
improvement, or land is used in violation of these regulations, the proper
legal authorities of the jurisdictional governing body, in addition to other
remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful erection, maintenance, or occupancy of such building, structure,
improvement or land, or to prevent an illegal act, conduct, business, or use in
or about such building, structure, improvement or land. (Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015)
   C.   Any person or entity applying for a permit under these regulations, or
who is otherwise required to comply with these regulations, must be responsible
for becoming familiar with these regulations and for complying fully with such
regulations.
   D.   Any permit issued which has been based on incomplete, incorrect, or
false information supplied by the applicant in their permit application will be
deemed to be invalid.
(Ord. 09-08, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 15-09, 6-1-2015; Ord. 23-30, 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 5
AQUATIC INVASIVE SPECIES PREVENTION
SECTION:
13-5-1: Purpose
13-5-2: Definitions
13-5-3: Prohibitions
13-5-4: Vessel Inspections And Decontamination
13-5-5: Fees
13-5-6: Public Nuisance Declaration
13-5-7: Penalty
13-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect all native and desired aquatic
species, aquatic habitat, water quality, commerce, and recreation in the waters
of Whitefish Lake by preventing the introduction and spread of aquatic invasive
species.
Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed as creating an affirmative duty on
the City to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 17-22, 8-7-2017)
13-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
AQUATIC INVASIVE SPECIES: Any invertebrates, plants, fish species or pathogens,
as identified by the State of Montana, whose introduction to the waters of
Whitefish Lake is likely to cause economic or environmental harm or harm to
human health.
HIGH RISK VESSEL: Includes, but is not limited to, ballast boats or boats with
ballast bags, boats with standing water, boats from a state known to have water
bodies infested with aquatic invasive species, boats from a Montana water body
known to have aquatic invasive species, boats with attached flora or fauna, and
boats with live bait.
VESSEL: Every description of watercraft, unless otherwise defined by the
Montana Department of Justice, other than a seaplane on the water, used or
capable of being used as a means of transportation on the water. (Ord. 17-22,
8-7-2017)
13-5-3: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall transport or introduce any aquatic invasive species
into Whitefish Lake.
   B.   No person shall launch any vessel contaminated with any aquatic
invasive plant or animal species into Whitefish Lake.
   C.   No person shall launch any vessel into Whitefish Lake without first
submitting to an inspection pursuant to section
13-5-4 of this chapter, when such an inspection is required by a duly
authorized agent of the City or State.
   D.   No person shall launch any vessel into Whitefish Lake without having
the vessel decontaminated after being directed to do so by a duly authorized
agent of the City or the State.
   E.   No person shall launch any high risk vessel into Whitefish Lake without
first having the vessel decontaminated, when such decontamination is required
by a duly authorized agent of the City or the State. Decontamination is not
required when the operator is able to provide proof that the vessel has not
been launched in any water body for the preceding thirty (30) days.
   F.   No person shall provide false information to any person authorized to
inspect, decontaminate or quarantine vessels.
   G.   No person shall utilize the City Beach launch outside its hours of
operation. (Ord. 17-22, 8-7-2017)
13-5-4: VESSEL INSPECTIONS AND DECONTAMINATION:
   A.   The City may appoint agents or assign City personnel to inspect vessels
prior to launching into Whitefish Lake to detect the presence and prevent the
introduction of aquatic invasive species.
   B.   Any vessel inspected that is found to have indicia of contamination by
aquatic invasive species shall be required to undergo decontamination
procedures or be quarantined prior to launch. Prior to launching into Whitefish
Lake, any vessel having undergone decontamination or quarantine procedures
pursuant to this section may be subject to inspection and/or certification
requirements.
   C.   Prior to launching any vessel into Whitefish Lake, the owner and/or
operator of the vessel may be required to complete an online self-certification
program and test in lieu of a full vessel inspection.
   D.   Prior to launching any vessel into Whitefish Lake and/or at the time of
the inspection, the owner and/or operator of the vessel may be required to
execute an affidavit indicating whether the vessel has been operated in any
waters known to contain aquatic invasive species and, if so, providing the date
(s) of said operation, the length of time that the vessel has been continuously
stored in a drained and dry condition subsequent to being on a water body
containing aquatic invasive species, and what decontamination procedures, if
any, the vessel has undergone.
   E.   No person shall be required to submit to a vessel inspection under this
section. If the vessel owner or operator refuses to consent to inspection or
screening, that vessel shall not be allowed to launch into Whitefish Lake.
(Ord. 17-22, 8-7-2017)
13-5-5: FEES:
All vessels inspected pursuant to this chapter may be subject to payment of
fees for the inspection. Inspection fees shall be in such amounts as may be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 17-22,
8-7-2017)
13-5-6: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARATION:
Any intentional violation of this chapter is declared to be unlawful and a
public nuisance and may be abated as set forth in section
4-1-3 of this Code, irrespective of any other remedy provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 17-22, 8-7-2017)
13-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall also be deemed to have committed a Municipal infraction and shall be
assessed the civil penalty described in section
1-4-4 of this Code. For each separate incident, the City shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a Municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the City may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a Municipal infraction, or vice versa.
(Ord. 17-22, 8-7-2017)
TITLE 14
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
14-1-1: Title
14-1-2: Findings Of Fact
14-1-3: Purpose
14-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
14-1-5: Intent
14-1-6: Statutory Authority
14-1-7: Burden Of Proof
14-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall be known and cited as the WHITEFISH FLOODPLAIN
ORDINANCE. These regulations are in accordance with and exercising the
authority of laws of the state of Montana, chapter 5, floodplain and floodway
management, Montana Code Annotated 76-5-101 through 76-5-406, and following the
guidance of the code of federal regulations administered by the federal
emergency management agency (FEMA). (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Whitefish are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage.
   C.   Flood hazard areas specifically adopted herein as regulated flood
hazard areas have been delineated and designated by order or determination of
the department of natural resources and conservation (DNRC) pursuant to Montana
Code Annotated 76-5-201 et seq.
   D.   These regulations have been reviewed by Montana department of natural
resources and conservation and the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
The Montana DNRC has found the regulations acceptable in meeting the department
minimum standards. FEMA finds that these regulations are adequate and
consistent with the comprehensive criteria for land management and use pursuant
to the standards established in 44 CFR 60.3. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-1-3: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business and public service interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
disruptions;
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area; and
   H.   Ensure compliance with the minimum standards for the continued
participation in the national flood insurance program for the benefit of the
residents. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities
which serve such uses, be developed or constructed to at least minimum
standards or to otherwise minimize flood damage;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   F.   Distinguish between the land use regulations applied to the floodway
within the regulated flood hazard area and those applied to that portion of the
regulated flood hazard area not contained in the floodway;
   G.   Apply more restrictive land use regulations within the floodway of the
regulated flood hazard area; and
   H.   Ensure that regulations and minimum standards balance the greatest
public good with the least private injury. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-1-5: INTENT:
The ordinance codified herein is passed in order to comply with the Montana
floodplain and floodway management act 1  and to ensure compliance with the
requirements for the continued participation by the city of Whitefish in the
national flood insurance program. Land use regulations which are hereby adopted
are to be applied to all identified regulated flood hazard areas within the
local jurisdiction. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA title 76, ch. 5.
14-1-6: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
Municipalities have authority to adopt ordinances as provided for in Montana
Code Annotated section 7-1-4123, to promote the general public health and
welfare. Other authority for municipalities and counties to adopt floodplain
management regulations appears in Montana Code Annotated sections 76-5-101
through 406, and is further described in Montana administrative rule (ARM) 36,
chapter 15. The authority to regulate development in specifically identified
flood hazard areas has been accepted pursuant to Montana Code Annotated 76-5-
301. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-1-7: BURDEN OF PROOF:
In all proceedings and hearings, and in all application and submittal
materials, the burden of proof shall rest with the applicant, permittee or
appellant, as applicable. (Ord. 16-04, 2-16-2016)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
14-2-1: Words Defined
14-2-1: WORDS DEFINED:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
these regulations the most reasonable application:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure that is accessory to, or in addition to, any
use that is permitted in this title (e.g., a picnic shelter would be accessory
to a campground). An accessory structure is secondary to the primary use that
is permitted and complies with all other conditions imposed by this title and
otherwise provided for by law. Accessory structures are also referred to as
appurtenant structures. An accessory structure is a structure which is in the
same property ownership as a principal structure and the use which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. For example, a residential
structure may have a detached garage or storage shed for garden tools as
accessory structures. Other examples of accessory structures include gazebos,
picnic pavilions, boathouses, small pole barns, storage sheds, and similar
buildings.
ACT: The statutes authorizing the national flood insurance program that are
incorporated in 42 USC 4001-4128, or Montana floodplain and floodway management
act, Montana code title 76, chapter 5.
ALTERATION: Any change or addition to a structure that either increases its
external dimensions or increases its potential flood hazard.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the city of Whitefish floodplain
administrator's interpretation of any provisions of this title or a request for
a variance.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within the community
subject to inundation by a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in
any given year; also commonly referred to as the 100-year floodplain. The area
may be designated as zone A on the DFIRM. After detailed ratemaking has been
completed in preparation for publication of the flood insurance rate map, zone
A usually is refined into zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of this title the term
"regulated flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase "area of
special flood hazard" and "special flood hazard area".
ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION/DEVELOPMENT: Any obstruction or development which is not
natural and includes any dam, diversion, wall, riprap, embankment, levee, dike,
pile, abutment, projection, revetment, excavation, channel rectification, road,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, refuse, automobile body, fill or other
analogous structure or matter in, along, across or projecting into any
regulated flood hazard area which may impede, retard or alter the pattern of
flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by
the water, or that is placed where the natural flow of water would carry the
same downstream to the damage or detriment of either life or property.
BASE FLOOD (FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY): A flood having a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. A base flood may also be
referred to as a 100-year flood. A 100-year flood has nearly a twenty three
percent (23%) chance of occurring in a twenty five (25) year period.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation above sea level of the base flood in
relation to the North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD 88). Previous FIRMs
may have been published in the national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 (NGVD
29).
BASEMENT: Any area of the building, except a crawl space, having its lowest
floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
BUILDING: Any walled and roofed enclosure, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
CHANNEL: The geographical area within either the natural or artificial banks of
a watercourse or drainway.
CHANNELIZATION PROJECT: The excavation and/or construction of an artificial
channel for the purpose of diverting the entire flow of a stream from its
established course.
COMMUNITY: Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian
tribe or authorized tribal organization or authorized native organization,
which has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for
the areas within its jurisdiction.
CRAWL SPACE: An enclosure that has its interior floor no more than five feet
(5') below the top of the next highest floor.
CRITICAL FACILITY: An activity or facility where, even a slight chance of
flooding is too great a threat. Typical critical facilities include hospitals,
retirement facilities, nursing homes, fire stations, police stations, storage
of critical records, and similar facilities.
DNRC: Montana department of natural resources and conservation.
DESIGNATED FLOODPLAIN: A floodplain whose limits have been delineated and
designated by order of the department of natural resources and conservation,
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated 76-5-201 et seq.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: A floodway whose limits have been delineated and
designated by order of the department of natural resources and conservation,
pursuant to Montana Code Annotated 76-5-201 et seq.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM): The map on which FEMA has delineated
the special flood hazard areas, the base flood elevations (BFE) and the risk
premium zones.
DRAINWAY: Any depression two feet (2') or more below the surrounding land
serving to give direction to a current of water less than nine (9) months of
the year and having a bed and well defined banks.
DWELLING: A permanent building for human habitation, a place for living
purposes.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A building that has no basement and that has its lowest
elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls,
posts, piers, pilings, or columns. A building on a crawl space is considered an
elevated building.
ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY OR PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY: A community for which the
federal insurance administrator has authorized the sale of flood insurance
under the national flood insurance program.
ENCLOSURE: That portion of an elevated building below the lowest elevated floor
that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls including a crawl
space, sub grade crawl space, stairwell, elevator or a garage below or
attached.
ENCROACHMENT: Activities or construction within the regulated flood hazard area
including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development.
ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS: A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed by an
engineer to assess the effects of the proposed artificial obstruction or
nonconforming use on base flood elevation, flood flows and flood velocities.
EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This peril is
not per se covered under the flood insurance program.
ESTABLISH: To construct, place, insert or excavate.
EXISTING ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION OR NONCONFORMING USE: An artificial obstruction
or nonconforming use that was established before land use regulations were
adopted pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-5-301(1).
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision where the construction of facilities for servicing the manufactured
home lots is completed before the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations. This includes, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEDERAL AGENCY: Any department, agency, corporation, or other entity or
instrumentality of the executive branch of the federal government, and includes
the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation.
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The agency that manages compliance
with the national flood insurance program (NFIP) and provides flood hazard
studies and maps.
FINISHED (HABITABLE) AREA: An enclosed area having more than twenty (20) linear
feet of finished walls (paneling, etc.) or used for any purpose other than
solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage.
FLOOD FRINGE: The identified portion of the floodplain of the regulated flood
hazard area outside the limits of the floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE: The insurance coverage provided under the national flood
insurance program.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): See definition of Digital Flood Insurance Rate
Map (DFIRM).
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The report in which FEMA has provided flood profiles, as
well as the flood boundary/floodway map and the water surface profiles.
FLOOD OF 100-YEAR FREQUENCY (BASE FLOOD): A flood magnitude expected to recur
on the average of once every one hundred (100) years or a flood magnitude that
has a one percent (1%) chance of occurring in any given year; commonly referred
to as the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
defined in subsection A2 of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
B. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body
of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of
water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually
high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or
by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal
surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in
flooding as defined in subsection A1 of this definition.
FLOOD PRONE AREA: The area of special flood hazard as identified on FEMA's
flood insurance rate maps and flood insurance study.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes tidal barriers,
dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are
those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a
lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or
an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood related erosion damage,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood related
erosion control works, and floodplain management regulations.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION AREA OR FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA: A land area
adjoining the shore of a lake or other body of water, which due to the
composition of the shoreline or bank and high water levels or wind driven
currents, is likely to suffer flood related erosion damage.
FLOODPLAIN: The areas subject to this title, generally the channel of a river
or stream and the area adjoining a river or stream, which would be covered by
floodwater of a base flood except for designated shallow flooding areas that
receive less than one foot (1') of water per occurrence. The floodplain
consists of a floodway and flood fringe where specifically designated. See
definition of Regulated Flood Hazard Area.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: Community official or representative appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this title.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit that is required before construction or
development begins within any regulated flood hazard area. Permits are required
to ensure that proposed development projects meet the requirements of the NFIP
and the community's floodplain management ordinance.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, HVAC
systems, structures and their contents (e.g., elevating a furnace and/or
electrical outlets within a structure 2 feet or more above the BFE). The term
includes wet floodproofing, dry floodproofing and elevation of structures.
FLOODWAY: The identified portion of the floodplain of the regulated flood
hazard area that is the channel and the area adjoining the channel that is
reasonably required to carry the discharge of the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface by more than one-half foot (1/2').
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state and local floodplain maps.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of floodplain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG): The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HYDRAULICS: The depth of water (elevation) in a drainageway, watercourse, river
or stream channel.
HYDROLOGY: The discharge in cubic feet per second (CFS) of water in a
drainageway, watercourse, river or stream channel.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): A LOMA is an official amendment, by letter,
issued by FEMA to an effective NFIP map. A LOMA establishes a property's
location in relation to the regulated flood hazard area. LOMAs are usually
issued because a property has been inadvertently mapped as being in the
floodplain. The material submitted and response from FEMA may be considered by
the floodplain administrator for determining if a property or structure is
within the regulated flood hazard area and subject to this title.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC): An official response from FEMA that amends or
revises the FEMA special flood hazard area and FEMA flood insurance study for
flood insurance purposes and/or flood risk hazard. They include letter of map
amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision (LOMR), letter of map revision based
on fill (LOMR-F), and conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR).
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): An official FEMA amendment to the currently
effective FEMA flood insurance rate map based on a physical change to the
floodplain of the regulated flood hazard area. It is issued by FEMA and changes
flood zones, delineations, and elevations on the FEMA flood insurance rate map
and may amend the FEMA flood insurance study. It must be preceded by an
approved alteration of the designated floodplain from DNRC and subsequently an
amendment to the regulated flood hazard area.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F): A letter of approval from FEMA
removing the mandatory requirement for flood insurance on property based on
placement of fill or an addition. Placement of fill or an addition must be
preceded by a permit pursuant to these regulations. Placement of fill does not
remove the development from the regulated flood hazard area or these
regulations.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION CONDITIONAL (CLOMR): A FEMA letter of approval for a
proposed physical change that when completed would propose to change the flood
zones, delineation or elevations on the FEMA flood insurance rate maps and may
amend the FEMA flood insurance study through a subsequent LOMR. The CLOMR may
be considered in an evaluation by DNRC and the floodplain administrator during
consideration of a proposed alteration to the regulated flood hazard area.
LEVEE: A manmade embankment, usually earthen, designed and constructed in
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control or divert the
flow of water to provide protection from temporary flooding. For a levee
structure to be reflected on the FEMA DFIRMs as providing flood protection, the
levee structure must meet the requirements set forth in 44 CFR 65.10.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as drainage and closure devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG): Required on the elevation certificate showing the
elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to an existing or proposed development
for flood insurance purposes.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement)
used for living purposes which includes working, storage, sleeping, cooking and
eating, or recreation or any combination thereof. This includes any floor that
could be converted to such a use such as a basement or crawl space. (An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not
considered a building's lowest floor.)
LOWEST FLOOR ELEVATION (LFE): The measured distance of a building's lowest
floor above the North American vertical datum (NAVD) or other datum specified
on the FIRM for that location.
MTDEQ: Montana department of environmental quality.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale. Includes
the construction of facilities for servicing the manufactured home lots and at
a minimum includes the installation of utilities, the construction of streets,
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME: A structure that may be residential or
nonresidential, that is transportable in one or more sections, built on a
permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. This includes park
trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: The North American vertical datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or other
datum to which base flood elevations are referenced.
MONTANA DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND CONSERVATION (MTDNRC): The
department responsible for the comprehensive program for the delineation of
designated floodplains and designated floodways for each watercourse and
drainway in the state.
MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW): A condition where there is a river, flow or inundation of
liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual condition of loss of
brush cover, and the subsequent accumulation of water on the ground preceded by
a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may
occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in progress, and will be
recognized as such by the administrator only if the mudflow, and not the
landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP): 44 CFR chapter I, parts 59-79. The
NFIP is a federal program enabling property owners in participating communities
to purchase insurance as a protection against flood losses in exchange for
state and community floodplain management regulations that reduce future flood
damages. Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between communities
and the federal government. If a community adopts and enforces a floodplain
management ordinance to reduce future flood risk to new construction in
floodplains, the federal government will make flood insurance available within
the community as a financial protection against flood losses. This insurance is
designed to provide an insurance alternative to disaster assistance to reduce
the escalating costs of repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused
by floods.
NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM OF 1929 (NGVD 29): Formerly the official
vertical datum for the United States; has been replaced with NAVD 88.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, new construction means
structures for which the start of construction (including clearing, grading,
filling, or excavating to prepare the site for construction) commenced on or
after the effective date of these regulations and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures. Structures include, new "stick built",
manufactured homes, mobile homes, or "moved onto site" structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
NONRESIDENTIAL: Buildings including manufactured homes that are not residential
including commercial, agricultural, industrial buildings and accessory
buildings. See definition of Residential Building.
NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88): The official vertical datum
for the United States.
OFFICIAL FLOODPLAIN MAPS: The flood insurance rate maps (DFIRMs) and flood
boundary/floodway maps adopted and provided by the federal emergency management
agency (FEMA) and/or MTDNRC for the city of Whitefish.
100-YEAR FLOOD: One percent (1%) annual chance flood. A 100-year flood has
nearly a twenty three percent (23%) chance of occurring in a twenty five (25)
year period. A 100-year flood is the same as a base flood. See definition of
Base Flood (Flood Of 100-Year Frequency).
OWNER: Any person who has dominion over, control of, or title to an artificial
obstruction.
PERMIT ISSUING AUTHORITY: The city council of the city of Whitefish.
PERSON: Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING: The community must review all permit
applications to determine whether the proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding as one of the minimum NFIP floodplain management
requirements established by NFIP regulations. If the community determines that
a site is not reasonably safe from flooding, it must require mitigation actions
be undertaken to reduce the structure's flood damage potential.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A park trailer, travel trailer, or other similar vehicle
which is: a) built on a single chassis; b) four hundred (400) square feet or
less when measured at the largest horizontal projections; c) designed to be
self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and d) designed
primarily for use as temporary living quarters for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use, not for use as a permanent dwelling.
REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA: A floodplain whose limits have been designated
pursuant to part 2, chapter 5 of title 76, Montana Code Annotated, and is
determined to be the area adjoining the watercourse that would be covered by
the floodwater of a base flood. The regulated flood hazard area consists of the
floodway and flood fringe where specifically designated. For purposes of this
title the term "regulated flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the
phrase "area of special flood hazard" and "special flood hazard area".
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: A dwelling or building for living purposes or places of
assembly or permanent use by human beings and including any mixed use of
residential and nonresidential use. All other buildings are nonresidential.
RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE TYPES: A. Nonresidential: Includes, but is not limited
to: small business concerns, churches, schools, farm buildings (including grain
bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses, recreational buildings, mercantile
structures, agricultural and industrial structures, warehouses, hotels and
motels with normal room rentals for less than six (6) months' duration, and
nursing homes.
B. Single-Family Residence: A residential single- family dwelling. Incidental
office, professional, private school, or studio occupancies, including a small
service operation, are permitted if such incidental occupancies are limited to
less than fifty percent (50%) of the building's total floor area as per zoning
regulations.
C. Two- To Four-Family Residence: A residential building (excluding hotels and
motels with normal room rentals for less than 6 months' duration) containing no
more than four (4) dwelling units. Incidental occupancies such as office,
professional, private school, or studio space are permitted if the total area
of such occupancies is limited to less than twenty five percent (25%) of the
total floor area within the building per the zoning regulations.
D. Other Residential: Hotels or motels where the normal occupancy of a guest is
six (6) months or more; a tourist home or rooming house which has more than
four (4) roomers. A residential building (excluding hotels and motels with
normal room rentals for less than 6 months' duration) containing more than four
(4) dwelling units. Incidental occupancies such as office, professional private
school, or studio occupancy, are permitted if the total area of such incidental
occupancies is limited to less than twenty five percent (25%) of the total
floor area within the building.
RIPRAP: Stone, rocks, concrete blocks or analogous material that is placed
along the banks or bed of a stream to alleviate erosion.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SCOUR DEPTH: The maximum depth of streambed scour caused by erosive forces of
the base flood.
SECTION 1316: Section of the national flood insurance act of 1968, as amended,
which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided for any
property that FEMA finds has been declared by a duly constituted state or local
zoning authority or other authorized public body to be in violation of state or
local laws, regulations, or ordinances that are intended to discourage or
otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood prone areas.
SETBACK: The amount of distance between the stream bank of the river or stream
and the proposed use, where the stream bank is the 100-year flood boundary.
SHEET FLOW HAZARD: A type of flood hazard with flooding depths of one to three
feet (3') that occurs in areas of sloping land. The sheet flow hazard is
represented by the zone designation AO on the FIRM.
SINGLE STRUCTURE (SINGLE BUILDING): A building that is separated from other
structures by intervening clear spell or solid, vertical, load bearing division
walls.
SOLID PERIMETER FOUNDATION WALLS: Walls that are used as a means of elevating a
building in A zones and that must contain sufficient openings to allow for the
unimpeded flow of floodwaters more than one foot (1') deep.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: Land area which has been specifically identified by
FEMA as the floodplain within a community subject to a one percent (1%) or
greater chance of flooding in any given year. It is useful for the purposes of
identifying flood hazards by local governments for regulatory purposes as well
as use by the NFIP for establishing risk zones and flood insurance premium
rates. The FEMA flood hazard area zone designation or flood risk potential is
illustrated on FEMA's flood insurance rate map. For purposes of this title the
term "regulated flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase
"area of special flood hazard" and "special flood hazard area".
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Commencement of clearing, grading, filling, or
excavating to prepare a site for construction. It includes substantial
improvement, and means the date the building permit was issued provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
In those jurisdictional areas not requiring a building permit these regulations
shall apply as to the date to the actual start of either the first placement of
permanent construction or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation as
described above.
STRUCTURE: Any artificial obstruction.
SUBGRADE CRAWL SPACE: A crawl space foundation enclosure that has its interior
floor no more than five feet (5') below the top of the next highest floor and
no more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent grade on all sides. A
foundation exceeding either dimension is a basement.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage sustained by a structure where the cost of restoring
the structure to its condition before damage would equal or exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: a) before the improvement or repair is
started; or b) if the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition, substantial
improvement is considered to occur when the first construction to any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences. The term
does not include: a) any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or b) any alteration of
a structure listed on the national register of historic places or state
inventory of historic places.
SUITABLE FILL: Fill material which is stable, compacted, well graded, pervious,
generally unaffected by water and frost, devoid of trash or similar foreign
matter, devoid of tree stumps, or other organic material; and is fitting for
the purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent structure.
UTILITIES: If a proposed building site is in a regulated flood hazard area, the
building support utility systems for all new construction and substantial
improvements shall:
A. Be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
B. Require within flood prone areas new and replacement water supply systems to
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems;
C. Require within flood prone areas new and replacement sewage systems be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into floodwaters; and
D. Require on site water disposal systems be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a flood prone
area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to assure that all public utilities
and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems are located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate flooding.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the development requirements of this title
that would permit construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this title.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this title or the floodplain permit issued. A structure or other
development without a floodplain permit, an elevation certificate,
certification by a licensed engineer or architect of compliance with this
title, or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until
such time as documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American vertical
datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas. (Ord. 15-16,
10-5-2015)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
14-3-1: Jurisdictional Area
14-3-2: Regulated Flood Hazard Areas
14-3-3: Rules For Interpretation Of Floodplain Boundaries
14-3-4: Compliance
14-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Responsibility
14-3-6: Regulation Interpretation
14-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
14-3-8: Severability
14-3-9: Disclosure Provision
14-3-10: Authority To Enter And Investigate Lands Or Waters
14-3-11: Amendment Of Regulations
14-3-12: Public Records
14-3-13: Disaster Recovery
14-3-14: Alteration Of Regulated Flood Hazard Area
14-3-1: JURISDICTIONAL AREA:
This title shall apply only to the flood hazard areas specifically adopted
herein as regulated flood hazard areas which are more fully and specifically
described in this chapter. Requirements and approvals for alterations to the
regulated flood hazard area are specified in section
14-3-14 of this chapter. The regulated flood hazard area includes areas
specifically identified, labeled, and illustrated on maps such as floodplain,
floodway, or flood fringe that have differing uses allowed and minimum building
standards that apply. The regulated flood hazard area is the geographic area
inundated by the flood of 100-year frequency illustrated and depicted in the
referenced studies and maps.
The regulated flood hazard area supporting study and maps illustrating the
regulatory area are based on studies and maps that have been specifically
adopted pursuant to 76-5-201 et seq. The maps and accompanying study become the
regulated flood hazard area only when formally adopted by DNRC and subsequently
by the participating community. The original source of studies and data may be
from a flood insurance study by FEMA, or other studies by corps of engineers,
soil conservation, United States geological service or other federal or state
agency. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-2: REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
This title applies to the regulated flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction
of the city of Whitefish, which are identified by FEMA on the most recent "The
Flood Insurance Study For Flathead County, Montana, And Incorporated Areas" and
includes the most recent effective flood insurance rate maps. See section
14-8-2, appendix B, of this title for a list of the current effective FIS and
FIRM panels with accompanying effective dates. The regulated flood hazard areas
specifically described or illustrated in the above referenced studies and maps
have been delineated, designated and established by order or determination by
the DNRC pursuant to Montana Code Annotated 76-5-201. Permits are required for
all proposed construction and other development within regulated flood hazard
areas. Use allowances, design and construction requirements specifically
outlined in this title vary by the specific floodplain areas, including areas
identified as floodway and/or flood fringe within the regulated flood hazard
area. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-3: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF FLOODPLAIN BOUNDARIES:
The mapped boundaries of the floodplain illustrated in the referenced studies
and maps in this section are a guide for determining whether property is
located within the regulated flood hazard area. A determination of the outer
limits and boundaries of the regulated flood hazard area, flood fringe or
floodway includes an evaluation of the maps as well as the particular study
data referenced in this section. Supporting study material for base flood
elevations takes precedence over any map illustrations if it exists.
The regulated flood hazard area boundary is delineated by the base flood
elevation. The physical field regulatory boundary of the regulated flood hazard
area is the actual intersection of the applicable study base flood elevation
with the existing adjacent terrain of the watercourse or drainway. The floodway
boundary where identified within the floodplain is as illustrated on the
referenced maps and studies. Since the floodway boundary is a study feature,
the location of the boundary may be physically located by referencing the study
data to a ground feature.
For A zone floodplains, where there is a conflict between a mapped floodplain
boundary and actual field conditions, the floodplain administrator may
interpret the location of the regulated flood hazard area boundary based on
field conditions or available historical flood information. The floodplain
administrator's interpretation of the boundary and decision may be appealed as
set forth in
chapter 4 of this title.
The floodplain administrator may request additional information described below
to determine whether or not the proposed development is within the regulated
flood hazard area:
   A.   Where base flood elevations exist, the property owner may provide
additional information which may include elevation information provided by an
engineer or land surveyor in order to determine if the proposed development is
subject to these regulations.
   B.   Where base flood elevations do not exist, the property owner may
provide additional information to be considered to determine the location of
the regulatory boundary or alternatively provide a computed base flood
elevation provided by an engineer.
Any owner or lessee of property who believes his property has been
inadvertently included in the regulated flood hazard area including the
floodway or flood fringe may submit scientific and/or technical information to
the floodplain administrator for a determination if the property is
appropriately located. Scientific or technical information submitted to FEMA by
an owner to affect the insurance rating for insurance purposes (e.g., letters
of map changes) may be considered by the floodplain administrator. A
determination by the floodplain administrator is independent of any
determination by FEMA regarding letters of map changes (LOMC). (Ord. 15-16, 10-
5-2015)
14-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No development, new construction, alteration, or substantial improvement may
commence within the regulated flood hazard area without full compliance with
the provisions of this title and other applicable regulations. This title meets
the minimum requirements as set forth by the Montana department of natural
resources and conservation, and the national flood insurance program. (Ord. 15-
16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESPONSIBILITY:
It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, deed restrictions, underlying zoning, or other
regulations in effect. However, where this title imposes greater restrictions,
the provision of this title shall prevail. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-6: REGULATION INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
a) considered as minimum requirements; b) liberally construed in favor of the
governing body; and c) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under state statutes. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the regulated flood hazard areas or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall
not create liability on the part of the community or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of these regulations is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding will in no way affect the validity of the remaining portions of these
regulations. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-9: DISCLOSURE PROVISION:
All property owners or realtors and developers representing property owners in
a regulated flood hazard area must notify potential buyers or their agents that
such property is located within the floodplain or floodway and is subject to
regulation. Information regarding floodplain areas or the repository for
floodplain maps is available in the floodplain administrator's office. (Ord.
15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-10: AUTHORITY TO ENTER AND INVESTIGATE LANDS OR WATERS:
The floodplain administrator may make reasonable entry upon any lands and
waters in the city of Whitefish and its zoning jurisdiction for the purpose of
making an investigation, inspection or survey to verify compliance with this
title. The floodplain administrator shall provide notice of entry by mail,
electronic mail, phone call, personal delivery to the owner, owner's agent,
lessee, or lessee's agent whose lands will be entered. If none of these persons
can be found, the floodplain administrator shall affix a copy of the notice to
one or more conspicuous places on the property. If the owners do not respond,
cannot be located or refuse entry to the floodplain administrator, the
floodplain administrator may only enter the property through a search warrant.
An investigation of a natural or artificial obstruction or nonconforming use
shall be made by the floodplain administrator, either on his own initiative, or
at the request of three (3) titleholders of land abutting the watercourse or
drainway involved, or on the written request of a governing body or permitting
agency. The names and addresses of the persons requesting the investigation
shall be released if requested 1 . (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. MCA 76-5-105.
14-3-11: AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS:
These regulations may be amended after notice and public hearing in regard to
the amendments to these regulations. The amendments must be found adequate and
acceptable by DNRC and FEMA to be effective and must be submitted for review at
least thirty (30) days prior to official adoption. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-12: PUBLIC RECORDS:
Records, including permits and applications, elevation and floodproofing
certificates, certificates of compliance, fee receipts, and other matters
relating to these regulations must be maintained by the floodplain
administrator and are public records and must be made available for inspection
and for copies upon reasonable request. A reasonable copying cost for copying
documents for members of the public may be charged and may require payments of
the costs before providing the copies. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-13: DISASTER RECOVERY:
In the event of a natural or manmade disaster, the floodplain administrator
should participate in the coordination of assistance and provide information to
structure owners concerning hazard mitigation and recovery measures with FEMA,
Montana disaster emergency services, and Montana DNRC, and other state, local,
and private emergency service organizations.
Upon completion of cursory street view structure condition survey within the
regulated flood hazard area, the floodplain administrator shall notify owners
that a permit may be necessary for an alteration or substantial improvement
before repair or reconstruction commences on damaged structures because of
damages caused by natural or manmade disasters such as floods, fires, or winds.
Owners should be advised that structures that have suffered substantial damage
and will undergo substantial improvements require a floodplain development
permit and must be upgraded to meet the minimum building standards herein
during repair or reconstruction. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-3-14: ALTERATION OF REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREA:
Revisions or updates to the specific maps and data that alter the established
floodplains or floodway of the regulated flood hazard area require DNRC
approval pursuant to Montana Code Annotated 75-5-203. An alteration of the
regulated flood hazard area is a DNRC approved amendment to the DNRC order that
originally delineated and designated the 100-year floodplain and is the basis
of the regulated flood hazard area referenced in section
14-3-2 of this chapter. A DNRC approved alteration consists of revisions or
updates to the specific maps and data of the referenced studies of this title
and forms the basis for an amendment to the regulated flood hazard area. Any
change to the regulated flood hazard area as a result of a DNRC alteration is
effective upon amendment to the regulated flood hazard area described in
section
14-3-2 of this chapter.
Substantial natural physical change or new technical or scientific flood data
showing that the base flood elevation has or may be changed or was erroneously
established shall be brought to the attention of DNRC and FEMA. Any floodplain
permit application for a proposed development or artificial obstruction must be
denied until a DNRC alteration pursuant to Montana Code Annotated 76-5-203, is
approved if it causes an increase of 0.5 foot or more to the base flood
elevation of a regulated flood hazard area without a floodway or an increase of
more than 0.00 feet to the base flood elevation of a floodway.
To propose an alteration a petition must be submitted to DNRC and must include
the following information:
   A.   Certification that no buildings are located in the areas which would be
impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
   B.   Evidence of notice to all property and land owners of the proposed
impacts to their properties explaining the proposed impact on their property;
   C.   Information that demonstrates that alternatives are not feasible;
   D.   Information that demonstrates that development is for a public use or
benefit; and
   E.   Any other supporting information and data as needed for approvals.
The floodplain administrator may represent the permit authority for any
necessary applications, approvals or endorsements such as the FEMA community
acknowledgement form to FEMA where affecting the FEMA special flood hazard
area.
A determination by the floodplain administrator that land areas located within
the regulated flood hazard area are above the base flood elevation as proven by
a certified elevation survey does not constitute or require an alteration or an
amendment of the regulated flood hazard area and may be maintained as a public
record that more explicitly defines the regulated flood hazard area boundary.
Elevating with suitable fill as permitted does not alter the regulated flood
hazard area or remove the elevated area from the regulated flood hazard area. A
floodplain permit implementing the physical change cannot be approved until a
CLOMR has been issued by FEMA. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
14-4-1: Floodplain Administrator
14-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
14-4-3: Forms
14-4-4: Fees
14-4-5: Floodplain Permit Application Review
14-4-6: Emergency Repair And Replacement
14-4-7: Appeals
14-4-8: Variances
14-4-9: Enforcement
14-4-10: Penalties
14-4-1: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The floodplain administrator is appointed by the city of Whitefish planning and
building department to administer and implement the provisions of this title
and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (emergency management and assistance -
national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management. The floodplain administrator must serve to meet and maintain the
commitments pursuant to 44 CFR 59.22(a) to FEMA to remain eligible for national
flood insurance for individuals and businesses with the participating
community. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain Records: Maintain and hold open for public inspection all
records pertaining to the provisions of this title and those that may be
necessary to document nonconforming uses. Where BFE data are utilized in zone
A, obtain and maintain records of the lowest floor and floodproofing elevations
for new and substantially improved construction.
   B.   Review Floodplain Permit Applications: Review permit applications to
ensure that the proposed building site project, including the placement of
manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding. Assure that the
applicant has acquired all necessary permits from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies including 310 permits from the Flathead County
conservation district, 318 permits from the Montana department of environmental
quality, and 404 permits from the U.S. army corps of engineers from which prior
approval is required. It is the responsibility of the applicant to determine
all other necessary permits.
   C.   Boundary Interpretation: Where interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions) the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation.
   D.   Notification To Other Communities: Notify, in riverine situations,
adjacent communities and the state coordinating agency, which is Montana
department of natural resources and conservation prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.
   E.   Maintenance Of Flood Carrying Capacity: Assure that the flood carrying
capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is
maintained.
   F.   Obtain Data: When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with
section
14-3-3 of this title, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any BFE data and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
chapter 5 of this title.
   G.   Procedure When Floodway Not Designated: When a regulatory floodway has
not been designated, the floodplain administrator must require that no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted within zones A and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one-half foot (0.5') at
any point, or significantly increases the base flood velocity, within the
community.
   H.   Approval Of Certain Developments: The community may approve certain
development in zones A, AE, AO, on the community's FIRM which will cause an
increase of more than 0.00 feet to the BFE of the floodway or more than 0.50
foot to the BFE of the regulated flood hazard area without a floodway if an
alteration pursuant to section
14-3-14 of this title has been approved, the regulated flood hazard area is
amended and a FEMA CLOMR where required is issued.
   I.   Approval Of Floodplain Development Permits: Permits shall be granted or
denied by the floodplain administrator on the basis of whether the proposed
establishment, development, alteration, or substantial improvement of an
artificial obstruction meets the requirements of these regulations. (Ord. 15-
16, 10-5-2015)
14-4-3: FORMS:
The following forms may be required by the floodplain administrator:
   A.   Floodplain Permit Application Form: The "joint application for proposed
work in Montana's streams, wetlands, regulated flood hazard areas, and other
water bodies", or other designated application form. A completed FEMA MT-1 form
may be required to accompany the application when required by the floodplain
administrator.
   B.   Floodplain Permit Compliance Report: A report required to be submitted
by the applicant to the floodplain administrator once the permitted project in
the regulated flood hazard area is completed or within the designated time
stipulated on the floodplain permit. A compliance report including an elevation
and/or floodproofing certificate may be required where specified for the
purpose of documenting compliance with the requirements of the permit.
   C.   Floodplain Variance Application Form: An application submitted by the
applicant to the floodplain administrator to initiate a proposed variance from
the requirements of this title as described in this chapter.
   D.   Floodplain Appeal Notice Form: A form submitted by the applicant or an
aggrieved party to initiate the appeal process described in this chapter.
   E.   Floodplain Emergency Notification Form: A written notification form
required pursuant to this chapter.
   F.   Official Complaint Form: A form that may be used by any person to
notify the floodplain administrator of an activity taking place that appears to
be noncompliant with the requirements of these regulations. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-
2015)
14-4-4: FEES:
A nonrefundable processing fee pursuant to the adopted fee schedule for the
city of Whitefish shall be submitted with each permit and/or variance
application. This fee will cover the administrative cost of processing the
permit and/or variance, providing public notice and performing sufficient field
inspections to ensure compliance with this title. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-4-5: FLOODPLAIN PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Application: Application for a floodplain development permit shall be
presented to the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by the city of
Whitefish and may include, but not be limited to:
      1.   A completed and signed floodplain permit application.
      2.   The required review fee.
      3.   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions,
and elevation of the proposed project including landscape alterations, existing
and proposed structures (including the placement of manufactured homes),
hydraulic calculations assessing the impact on base flood elevations or
velocities, level survey or certification by a registered land surveyor,
professional engineer or licensed architect that the requirements of this title
are satisfied and the location of the foregoing in relation to the regulated
flood hazard area and if applicable the floodway boundary.
      4.   A copy of other applicable permits or pending applications required
by federal or state law as submitted which may include, but are not limited to,
a 310 permit, SPA 124 permit, section 404 permit, 318 authorization, 401
certification or a navigable rivers land use license or easement for the
proposed project; and the applicant must show that the floodplain development
permit application is not in conflict with the relevant and applicable permits.
      5.   Additional information related to the specific use or activity
including: elevation or floodproofing certificates, a level survey and/or
hydraulic and hydrology calculations by a registered land surveyor, engineer,
or licensed architect to assess the impact of the volume of water,
determination of the base flood elevation, water velocities, and/or ground
elevations.
      6.   Additional information related to the specific use or activity that
demonstrates the design criteria and construction standards are met or exceeded
as specified in
chapter 5 of this title and may include:
         a.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure shall be floodproofed;
         c.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the
floodproofing criteria of
chapter 7 of this title; and
         d.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   B.   Floodplain Administrator Determination: The floodplain administrator
shall determine whether the floodplain development permit application contains
the applicable elements required by these regulations and shall notify the
applicant of any deficiencies within sixty (60) days.
   C.   Incomplete Application: If the floodplain development permit
application is found to be missing any required elements as identified above,
but not limited to, the floodplain administrator may deem an application
incomplete.
      1.   The floodplain administrator shall identify in writing the specific
required information missing from the application materials. No further action
shall be taken on the application until the required material is submitted.
      2.   If the applicant provides the required additional information, the
floodplain administrator shall have fifteen (15) working days from the date of
submittal to notify the applicant whether the information provided contains
adequate detailed information sufficient for review under these regulations.
      3.   This process shall be repeated until the applicant submits adequate
detailed information sufficient for review of the proposed application under
the provisions of these regulations.
   D.   Denial Of Application: If after a reasonable effort the floodplain
administrator determines the floodplain development permit application remains
incomplete, the floodplain administrator shall deny the floodplain development
permit application and notify the applicant of missing elements. No further
action shall be taken by the floodplain administrator until a new application
is resubmitted.
   E.   Additional Information During Review Process: A determination that a
floodplain development permit application is correct and complete for review
does not ensure that the application will be approved or conditionally approved
and does not limit the ability of the floodplain administrator to request
additional information during the review process.
   F.   Notice: Upon receipt of a complete application for a floodplain
development permit, the floodplain administrator shall prepare a notice
containing the facts pertinent to the application and shall:
      1.   Publish the notice at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area.
      2.   Serve notice by first class mail upon adjacent property owners.
      3.   Serve notice to the state NFIP coordinator located in DNRC by the
most efficient method. Notice to other permitting agencies or other impacted
property owners may also be provided.
      4.   The notice shall provide a reasonable period of time, not less than
fifteen (15) days, for interested parties to submit comments on the proposed
activity.
   G.   Basis Of Approval Or Denial Of Permit: Approval or denial of a
floodplain development permit by the floodplain administrator shall be based on
all of the provisions of this title, including, but not limited to, the
specific standards outlined in
chapter 5 of this title and consideration of the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights,
increased floodwater velocities, backwater or alterations in the pattern of
flood flow caused by the obstruction or encroachment, flooding or erosion
damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that the obstruction, encroachment, or materials may be
swept onto other lands or downstream to the injury of others;
      4.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      5.   The construction or alteration of the obstruction or encroachment in
such manner as to lessen the flooding danger;
      6.   The permanence of the obstruction or use and is reasonably safe from
flooding;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
anticipated development in the foreseeable future;
      8.   The ability of the proposed water supply and/or sanitation system to
prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions;
      9.   Relevant and related permits for the project have been obtained;
      10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      11.   The importance of the services provided by the facility to the
community;
      12.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      13.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      14.   The requirement of the facility for a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      15.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area;
      16.   The proposed use shall comply with the existing zoning designation;
      17.   The request for fill for a residential or commercial building is
not followed by a request for a basement for the same residential or commercial
building, which would put the finished floor of the building below the BFE,
which would negate the purpose of the fill;
      18.   For projects involving bank stabilization, channelization, levees,
floodwalls and/or diversions, off property impacts including increased flood
peaks, flood stage, flood velocity, erosion and sedimentation, should be
considered and found to be nonexistent, neutral or able to be mitigated; and
      19.   Such other factors as are in harmony with the purposes of this
title, the Montana floodplain and floodway management act, the national flood
insurance program, and the administrative rules of Montana.
   H.   Decision: A floodplain development permit application shall be
approved, conditionally approved, or denied by the floodplain administrator.
      1.   The floodplain administrator shall notify the applicant of their
actions and the reasons thereof within sixty (60) days of receipt of a correct
and complete floodplain development permit application unless otherwise
specified.
      2.   All approved applications will be signed by the floodplain
administrator.
      3.   Denied applications may be resubmitted if additional information is
provided to support a change in development.
      4.   A copy of the approved floodplain development permit must be
provided to the DNRC.
      5.   The approval of a floodplain development permit does not affect any
other type of approval required by any other statute or ordinance of the state
or any political subdivision of the United States, but is an added requirement.
   I.   Floodplain Permit Conditions And Requirements: Upon approval or
conditional approval of the floodplain development permit, the floodplain
administrator shall provide the applicant with a floodplain development permit
with applicable specific requirement and conditions including, but not limited
to, the following:
      1.   The floodplain development permit will become valid when all other
necessary permits required by federal or state law are in place.
      2.   Completion of the development pursuant to the floodplain development
permit shall be completed within one year from the date of issuance or a time
limit commensurate with the project construction time line for completion of
the project or development.
      3.   The applicant may request an extension for up to one additional
year. The request must be made at least thirty (30) days prior to the permitted
completion deadline.
      4.   The applicant shall notify subsequent property owners and their
agents and potential buyers of the floodplain development permit issued on the
property and that such property is located within a regulated flood hazard area
and shall record the notice with the floodplain administrator.
      5.   The applicant shall maintain the artificial obstruction or use to
comply with the conditions and specifications of the permit.
      6.   The applicant shall allow the floodplain administrator to perform on
site inspections at select intervals during construction or completion.
      7.   The applicant shall provide periodic engineering oversight and/or
interim reports during the construction period to be submitted to the
floodplain administrator to confirm constructed elevations and other project
elements.
      8.   The applicant shall submit a compliance report including
certifications where required and applicable including floodproofing,
elevation, surface drainage, proper enclosure openings and materials to the
floodplain administrator within thirty (30) days of completion or other time as
specified.
      9.   The applicant shall submit an annual performance and maintenance
report on bank stabilization or other projects utilizing maturing vegetation
components to the floodplain administrator for a period of five (5) years or a
time specified in the permit.
      10.   The applicant shall submit evidence of a submittal of a letter of
map revision to FEMA with required fees, if applicable, within six (6) months
of project completion and proceed with due diligence for acceptance of the
document and necessary supporting materials by FEMA. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-4-6: EMERGENCY REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT:
Emergency repair and replacement of severely damaged artificial obstructions
and development in the regulated flood hazard area, including public
transportation facilities, public water and sewer facilities, flood control
works, and private projects are subject to the permitting requirements of these
regulations, and may be authorized by the floodplain administrator. The
provisions of these regulations are not intended to affect other actions that
are necessary to safeguard life or structures during periods of emergency.
   A.   The property owner and/or the person responsible for taking emergency
action must notify the floodplain administrator prior to initiating any
emergency action in a regulated flood hazard area normally requiring a
floodplain development permit. The floodplain administrator must determine that
an emergency condition exists warranting immediate action and agree upon the
nature and type of proposed emergency repair and/or replacement. An emergency
notification form must be submitted to the floodplain administrator within five
(5) days of the action taken as a result of the emergency.
   B.   Authorization to undertake emergency repair and replacement work may be
given verbally if the floodplain administrator feels that such a written
authorization would unduly delay the emergency work. Such verbal authorization
must be followed by a written authorization describing the emergency condition,
the type of emergency work agreed upon, and stating that a verbal authorization
had been previously given.
   C.   Unless otherwise specified by the floodplain administrator, within
thirty (30) days of initiating the emergency action, a person who has
undertaken an emergency action must submit a floodplain permit application that
describes what action has taken place during the emergency and describe any
additional work that may be required to bring the project in compliance with
these regulations.
   D.   A person who has undertaken an emergency action may be required to
modify or remove the project in order to meet the permit requirements. (Ord.
15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-4-7: APPEALS:
   A.   General:
      1.   There is hereby created a local floodplain management appeals board,
the membership, administration, and rules of procedure of which are the
community development board.
      2.   The board will hear and render judgment on an appeal only when it is
alleged there is an error in the floodplain administrator's order, decision to
grant, condition or deny a floodplain development permit, or interpretation of
the regulated flood hazard area boundary.
      3.   The floodplain administrator must maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and must report appeals to the federal emergency management
agency upon request.
      4.   Appeals of any decision(s) of the board may be taken by an aggrieved
person or persons, jointly or separately, to a court of record, provided that
the appellant has exhausted all administrative remedies.
   B.   Appeal Requirements:
      1.   An appeal must include the basis of the appeal and supporting
information including specific findings and conclusions of the floodplain
administrator's decision being appealed;
      2.   An appeal may be submitted by an applicant and/or anyone who may be
aggrieved by the floodplain administrator's decision or order;
      3.   Appeals must be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of the
written decision, interpretation or determination by the floodplain
administrator;
      4.   Additional information specific to the appeal request may be
requested by the zoning board of adjustment.
   C.   Evaluation Of Appeal:
      1.   Notice of the pending appeal and hearing must be provided pursuant
to subsection
14-4-5F of this chapter. The floodplain administrator shall notify DNRC and
FEMA of pending appeals.
      2.   A public hearing on the appeal must be held within thirty (30) days
of the notice unless set otherwise.
      3.   A judgment on an appeal must be made within thirty (30) days of the
hearing unless set otherwise. The decision may affirm, modify, or overturn the
floodplain administrator's decision. A decision on an appeal of a permit cannot
grant or issue a variance. A decision may support, reverse or remand an order
or determination of a boundary of the regulated flood hazard area by the
floodplain administrator.
(Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
14-4-8: VARIANCES:
A variance from the minimum development standards of these regulations may be
allowed. An approved variance would permit construction in a manner otherwise
as required or prohibited by these regulations.
   A.   General:
      1.   There is hereby created a local floodplain management board of
adjustment, the membership, administration, and rules of procedure of which are
the community development board.
      2.   The board will:
         a.   Evaluate the floodplain development permit application and
variance application using the criteria in this section, and the application
requirements and minimum development standards of this title.
         b.   Make findings, and approve, conditionally approve, or deny a
floodplain development permit and variance within sixty (60) days of a complete
application.
         c.   Upon consideration of the factors noted in this section and the
intent of this title, the board may attach such conditions to the granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
title, including a project completion date and inspections during and after
construction.
         d.   Notify the applicant that the issuance of a floodplain
development permit and variance to construct a structure not meeting the
minimum building requirements in these regulations may result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance and that flood insurance premiums are
determined by actuarial risk and will not be modified by the granting of a
variance.
         e.   Submit to the floodplain administrator a record of all actions
involving a floodplain development permit and variance, including the findings
and decision and send a copy of each variance granted to the DNRC.
      3.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the board of
adjustment may appeal such decision in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Variance Application Requirements:
      1.   Prior to any consideration of a variance from any development
standard in these regulations, a completed floodplain development permit
application and required supporting material must be submitted.
      2.   Additionally, supporting materials in a variance application
specific to the variance request including facts and information addressing the
criteria in this section must be submitted.
      3.   If the floodplain development permit application and variance
application is deemed not correct and complete, the floodplain administrator
must notify the applicant of deficiencies within a reasonable time not to
exceed thirty (30) days. Under no circumstances should it be assumed that the
variance is automatically granted.
   C.   Evaluation Of Variance Application:
      1.   A floodplain development permit and variance will only be issued
upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering
the flood hazard, to afford relief from these regulations.
      2.   Public notice of the floodplain development permit and variance
application must be given pursuant to subsection
14-4-5F of this chapter.
      3.   Variances will only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause. Financial hardship is not a
good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         c.   Residential and nonresidential buildings are not in the floodway
except for alterations or substantial improvement to existing buildings.
Residential dwellings including basement and attached garages do not have the
lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation;
         d.   Any enclosure including a crawl space must meet the requirements
of subsection
14-7-2D, "Wet Floodproofing", of this title if the enclosure interior grade is
at or below the base flood elevation;
         e.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances;
         f.   The proposed use is adequately floodproofed;
         g.   The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief;
         h.   Reasonable alternative locations outside the designated
floodplain are not available;
         i.   An encroachment does not cause an increase to the base flood
elevation that is beyond that allowed in these regulations or an increase in
velocities during the base flood discharge within any designated floodway; and
         j.   All other criteria for a floodplain development permit besides
the specific development standard requested by the variance are met.
      4.   An exception to the variance criteria in this section may be allowed
as follows:
         a.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size that
is outside the floodway and is contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the
relevant factors in subsection
14-4-5G of this chapter have been fully considered;
         b.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure. The historic nature of the
building must be designated as a preliminary or historic structure by U.S.
secretary of interior or an approved state or local government historic
preservation program.
(Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015; amd. Ord. 23-27, 11-20-2023)
14-4-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The floodplain administrator shall bring any violation of these regulations to
the attention of the local governing body, its legal counsel, and the Montana
DNRC.
   A.   Any use, alteration, or construction not in compliance with that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of this title and punishable as provided
in section
14-4-10 of this chapter or enforced as provided in Montana Code Annotated 76-5-
105.
   B.   An investigation to determine compliance with these regulations for an
artificial obstruction or nonconforming use within the regulated flood hazard
area may be made either on the initiative of the floodplain administrator or on
the written request from a public citizen affected by the activity. The written
request shall be submitted to the floodplain administrator on the official
complaint form. The names and addresses of the person(s) requesting the
investigation shall be released if requested.
   C.   The floodplain administrator may make reasonable entry upon any lands
and waters for the purpose of making an investigation, inspection, or survey to
verify compliance with these regulations.
      1.   The floodplain administrator shall provide notice of entry by mail,
electronic mail, phone call, or personal delivery to the owner, owner's agent,
lessee, or lessee's agent whose lands will be entered.
      2.   If none of these persons can be found, the floodplain administrator
shall affix a copy of the notice to one or more conspicuous places on the
property.
      3.   If the owners do not respond, cannot be located, or refuse entry to
the floodplain administrator, the floodplain administrator may initiate a
search warrant.
   D.   When the floodplain administrator determines that a violation may have
occurred, the floodplain administrator may issue written notice to the owner or
an agent of the owner, either personally or by certified mail. Such notice
shall cite the regulatory offense and include an order to take corrective
action within a reasonable time or to respond by requesting an administrative
review by the floodplain administrator. An owner may be required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, architect, or other
qualified person designated by the floodplain administrator, that finished
fill, building floor elevations, floodproofing, hydraulic design, or other
flood protection measures have been accomplished in compliance with this title.
   E.   The order to take corrective action is final, unless within five (5)
working days or any granted extension, after the order is received, the owner
submits a written request for an administrative review by the floodplain
administrator. A request for an administrative review does not stay the order.
   F.   Within ten (10) working days or any granted extension of receipt of the
floodplain administrator's decision concluding the administrative review, the
property owner or owner's agent may appeal the decision pursuant to section
14-4-7 of this chapter.
   G.   If the owner fails to comply with the order for corrective action,
remedies may include administrative or legal actions, or penalties through
court. This section does not prevent efforts to obtain voluntary compliance
through warning, conference, or any other appropriate means. Action under this
section shall not bar enforcement of these regulations by injunction or other
appropriate remedy. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-4-10: PENALTIES:
Violation of the provisions of this title or failure to comply with any of the
requirements, including failure to obtain permit approval prior to development
in the regulated flood hazard area, except for an emergency, shall constitute a
misdemeanor and may be treated as a public nuisance.
   A.   Any person who violates this title or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) or imprisoned in jail for not more than ten (10) days or
both. Each day's continuance of a violation shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense.
   B.   In addition, any such violation of this title or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a municipal infraction, the penalty
for which is set forth in section
1-4-4 of this code. For each separate incident, the city shall elect to treat
the violation as a misdemeanor or a municipal infraction, but not both. If a
violation is repeated, the city may treat the initial violation as a
misdemeanor and the repeat violation as a municipal infraction, or vice versa.
   C.   Upon finding of a violation and failure of the owner to take corrective
action as ordered, the floodplain administrator may submit notice and request a
1316 violation declaration to the federal insurance administrator. The federal
insurance administrator has the authority to deny new and renewal flood
insurance for a structure upon finding a valid violation declaration.
      1.   The floodplain administrator shall provide the federal insurance
administrator the following:
         a.   The name(s) of the property owner(s) and address or legal
description of the property sufficient to confirm its identity and location;
         b.   A clear and unequivocal declaration that the property is in
violation of a cited state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
         c.   A clear statement that the public body making the declaration had
authority to do so and a citation to that authority;
         d.   Evidence that the property owner has been provided notice of the
violation and the prospective denial of insurance; and
         e.   A clear statement that the declaration is being submitted
pursuant to section 1316 of the national flood insurance act of 1968, as
amended. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIFIC STANDARDS
SECTION:
14-5-1: Application
14-5-2: General Standards
14-5-3: Prohibited Uses, Activities, And Structures
14-5-4: Uses Allowed Without A Permit
14-5-5: Development Requirements In The Floodway
14-5-6: Development Requirements In The Flood Fringe Or Regulated Flood Hazard
Area With No Floodway
14-5-7: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
14-5-1: APPLICATION:
The minimum floodplain development standards listed in this chapter and title
76, chapter 5, Montana Code Annotated, apply to the regulated flood hazard area
referenced in section
14-3-2 of this title and best available information. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-5-2: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   A floodplain development permit is required for a person to establish,
alter, or substantially improve an artificial obstruction, nonconforming use or
development within the regulated flood hazard area.
   B.   A floodplain development permit is required for artificial
obstructions, developments, and uses not specifically listed in sections
14-5-5 and
14-5-6 of this chapter, except as allowed without a floodplain development
permit in section
14-5-4 of this chapter, or as prohibited as specified in section
14-5-3 of this chapter, within the regulated flood hazard area.
   C.   Artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses in regulated flood
hazard area not exempt under section
14-5-4 of this chapter are public nuisances unless a floodplain development
permit has been obtained.
   D.   A floodplain development permit is required for an alteration of an
existing artificial obstruction or nonconforming use that increases the
external size or increases its potential flood hazard and not exempt under
section
14-5-4 of this chapter.
   E.   A floodplain development permit is required to reconstruct or repair an
existing artificial obstruction that has experienced substantial damage and
will undergo substantial improvement.
   F.   Maintenance of an existing artificial obstruction or use that is a
substantial improvement or an alteration requires a floodplain development
permit.
   G.   In all regulated flood hazard areas the following provisions are
required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-5-3: PROHIBITED USES, ACTIVITIES, AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Floodway: The following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses
are prohibited in the floodway of the regulated flood hazard area, except for
those established before land use regulations pursuant to Montana Code
Annotated section 76-5-301, have been adopted:
      1.   A structure for residential or nonresidential living purposes, place
of assembly or permanent use by human beings.
      2.   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other places of burial of human
remains.
      3.   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, buildings,
substantial improvements, excavations and other development that would cause
water to be diverted from the established floodway, erosion, obstruction of the
natural flow of waters, or reduce the carrying capacity of the floodway.
Exceptions to these requirements include excavation or fill which may be
allowed when it is a component to a permitted use allowed in these regulations.
      4.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple
family sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and
sanitation regulations and when permitted pursuant to these regulations and are
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters and avoid
impairment or contamination.
      5.   Storage and disposal of solid waste, hazardous waste, toxic,
flammable, or explosive materials.
      6.   The construction or permanent storage of an object or artificial
obstruction subject to flotation or movement during flood level periods.
   B.   Flood Fringe Or Regulated Flood Hazard Area Without A Floodway: The
following artificial obstructions and nonconforming uses are prohibited within
the flood fringe or regulated flood hazard area without a floodway, except for
those established before land use regulations have been adopted:
      1.   Cemeteries, mausoleums, or any other places of burial of human
remains.
      2.   Solid and hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple-
family sewage disposal systems unless the systems meet the local health and
sanitation regulations and when permitted pursuant to these regulations and are
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters and avoid
impairment or contamination.
      3.   Storage and disposal of solid waste, hazardous waste, toxic,
flammable, or explosive materials.
      4.   The construction or storage of an artificial obstruction subject to
flotation or movement during flood level periods.
      5.   Critical facilities, including buildings and associated structures
that provide essential community care and emergency operation functions such as
schools, hospitals, nursing home facilities, fire stations, and police
stations. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-5-4: USES ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   A.   Existing artificial obstructions or nonconforming uses established
before land use regulations pursuant to Montana Code Annotated section 76-5-301
were effective, are allowed without a permit. However, alteration or
substantial improvement of an existing artificial obstruction or nonconforming
use requires a floodplain permit. Maintenance of an existing artificial
obstruction or nonconforming use does not require a floodplain permit if it
does not cause an alteration or substantial improvement.
   B.   The following open space uses shall be allowed without a permit in the
regulated flood hazard area (either floodway, flood fringe, or flood hazard
area without a floodway), provided that such uses are not prohibited by any
other resolution or statute, do not require structures, do not require
alteration of the floodplain such as fill, grading, excavation or storage of
materials or equipment, do not require large scale cleaning of the riparian
vegetation within fifty feet (50') of the mean high water mark, will not cause
flood losses on other land or to the public:
      1.   Accessory uses, not including structures, such as loading and
parking areas, or emergency landing strips associated with industrial and
commercial facilities.
      2.   Agricultural uses, not including related structures, such as
tilling, farming, irrigation, harvesting, grazing, etc.
      3.   Fences that have a low impact to the flow of water such as barbed
wire fences and wood rail fences, and not including permanent fences crossing
channels. Fences that have the potential to stop or impede flow or debris such
as a chainlink or privacy fence requires a floodplain development permit and
meet the requirements of subsection
14-5-5M of this chapter.
      4.   Forestry, including processing of forest products with portable
equipment.
      5.   Irrigation and livestock supply wells, provided that they are
located at least five hundred feet (500') from domestic water supply wells and
with the top of casing eighteen inches (18") above the base flood elevation.
      6.   Private and public recreational uses not requiring structures such
as golf courses, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching
ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife management and natural areas, game
farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet
ranges, hunting and fishing areas and hiking or horseback riding trails.
      7.   Recreational vehicle use provided that the vehicle is on the site
for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days and is fully licensed
and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if
it is on its wheels or jacking system with wheels intact, is attached to the
site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
      8.   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas.
      9.   Maintenance of the existing state of an existing open space use
including preventive maintenance activities such as bridge deck rehabilitation
and roadway pavement preservation activities. Maintenance cannot increase the
external size or increase the hazard potential of the existing open space use.
      10.   Addition of highway guardrail, signing and utility poles that have
a low impact to the flow of water along an existing roadway.
      11.   Floating docks that do not have permanent structures, do not
require fill or excavation, have been issued a 310 permit, and meet the
following standards:
         a.   Only one dock is allowed per common waterfront property ownership
unless an individual dwelling is constructed on each separate and legally
defined lot with independent water and sewage disposal, in which case one dock
is allowed per independent dwelling unit/lot. "Common waterfront property
ownership" shall be defined as multiple contiguous lots under one family or
related ownership, including fractional ownership in a corporation, partnership
or other legal entity;
         b.   Docks shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in length, including the
access ramp (gangway);
         c.   The width of the deck on a dock shall not be greater than eight
feet (8');
         d.   The maximum length of the wing section on a dock, whether a T, F,
4, or L shaped dock, must not exceed the lesser of thirty feet (30') or thirty
percent (30%) of the lot frontage;
         e.   If foam or similar easily damaged flotation systems are
incorporated into the dock design, the material shall be completely encased in
solid wood or a suitable impervious, noncorrosive material such as aluminum or
galvanized sheet metal so as to avoid the breakup or scattering of materials.
Plywood, particleboard, etc., shall not be used. Boards may be spaced up to
one-half inch (1/2") apart on the bottom or drain holes may be incorporated
into other materials to aid in drainage;
         f.   All floating docks shall be suitably anchored to the river bottom
or bank to avoid drift. Anchoring methods are limited to cable, galvanized
chain or nylon or polypropylene rope attached to a suitable clean weight such
as solid clean concrete, rock or steel blocks or a temporary pipe and post
system which allows the dock sections to slide up and down. In addition, the
end of the floating dock may be secured by cable, anchor, or post to keep the
end of the dock stable;
         g.   Docks which have deteriorated to the extent that they may
contaminate the river, such as having exposed white styrofoam, shall be
immediately repaired as necessary to eliminate the risk of contamination or
shall be removed entirely from the water; and
         h.   It is a violation of these regulations to abandon docks or to
otherwise allow docks or dock remnants to float out into the river unsecured.
(Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-5-5: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE FLOODWAY:
   A.   Artificial Obstructions: Artificial obstructions including alterations
and substantial improvements specifically listed in this section may be
permitted by the floodplain administrator within the floodway through an
approved floodplain development permit, provided the general requirements and
specific standards within this section and subsection
14-4-5G of this title are met.
   B.   General Requirements: An application for a floodplain development
permit shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   All projects shall be designed and constructed to ensure that they
do not adversely affect the flood hazard on other properties and are reasonably
safe from flooding.
      2.   All projects shall assure that the carrying capacity of the floodway
is not reduced. All projects shall meet the following:
         a.   Demonstrate that the project does not increase the base flood
elevation by conducting an encroachment analysis certified by an engineer. A
minimal or qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project
or development does not require a structure, alteration of the floodway,
involve fill, grading, excavation or storage of materials or equipment but is
also certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment to the
base flood elevation.
         b.   The allowable encroachment to the base flood elevation is 0.00
feet and no significant increase to the velocity or flow of the stream or
watercourse unless approval of an alteration of the regulated flood hazard area
pursuant to section
14-3-14 of this title and an approved FEMA conditional letter of map revision
occurs before permit issuance.
   C.   Excavation Of Material: Excavation of material from pits, pools, or
stormwater ponds provided that:
      1.   A buffer strip of undisturbed land of sufficient width as determined
by an engineer, but in no case less than twenty feet (20'), to prevent flood
flows from channeling into the excavation is left between the edge of the
channel and the edge of the excavation;
      2.   The excavation meets all applicable laws and regulations of other
local and state agencies; and
      3.   Excavated material is stockpiled outside the designated floodway.
   D.   Transportation Related Crossings: Railroad, highway, street, stream,
and other transportation related crossings provided that:
      1.   The crossings are designed to offer minimal obstructions to the
flood flow;
      2.   Where failure or interruption of public transportation facilities
would result in danger to public health or safety and where practicable and in
consideration of FHWA federal aid policy guide 23 CFR 650A:
         a.   Bridge lower chords shall have a freeboard of at least two feet
(2') above the BFE to pass ice flows, the base flood discharge and any debris
associated with the discharge;
         b.   Culverts shall be designed to pass the base flood discharge and
maintain at least two feet (2') freeboard on the crossing surface;
      3.   If possible, normal overflow channels are preserved to allow passage
of sediments to prevent aggradations; and
      4.   Midstream supports for bridges, if necessary, must have footings
buried below the maximum scour depth.
   E.   Limited Filling For Road And Railroad Embankments: Limited filling for
road and railroad embankments, including other transportation related
embankments not associated with stream crossings and bridges provided that:
      1.   The fill is suitable fill material;
      2.   Reasonable alternate transportation routes outside the designated
floodway are not available;
      3.   The encroachment is located as far from the stream channel as
possible; and
      4.   Measures are provided to mitigate the impact to property owners and
the natural stream function.
   F.   Buried Or Suspended Utility Transmission Lines: Buried or suspended
utility transmission lines, provided that:
      1.   Suspended utility transmission lines are designed such that the
lowest point of the suspended line is at least six feet (6') higher than the
base flood elevation;
      2.   Towers and other appurtenant structures are designed and placed to
withstand and offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
      3.   When technically feasible, the crossing will not disturb the bed and
banks of the stream, alternatives such as alternative routes, directional
drilling, and aerial crossings are considered; and
      4.   Utility transmission lines carrying toxic or flammable materials are
buried to a depth of at least twice the calculated maximum depth of scour
determined by an engineer for the base flood. The maximum depth of scour may be
determined from any of the accepted hydraulic engineering methods, but the
final calculated figures shall be subject to approval by the floodplain
administrator.
   G.   Storage Of Materials And Equipment: Storage of materials and equipment
provided that:
      1.   The material or equipment is not subject to major damage by flooding
and is properly anchored to prevent flotation or downstream movement; and
      2.   The material or equipment is readily removable within the limited
time available after flood warning. Storage of flammable, toxic or explosive
materials shall not be permitted.
   H.   Domestic Water Supply Wells: Domestic water supply wells, provided
that:
      1.   They are driven or drilled wells located on ground higher than
surrounding ground to assure positive drainage from the well;
      2.   They require no other structures (e.g., a well house);
      3.   Well casings are watertight to a distance of at least twenty five
feet (25') below the ground surface and the well casing height is a minimum of
two feet (2') above the base flood elevation or capped with a watertight seal
and vented two feet (2') above the base flood elevation;
      4.   Water supply and electrical lines have a watertight seal where the
lines enter the casing;
      5.   All pumps and electrical lines and equipment are either of the
submersible type or are adequately floodproofed; and
      6.   Check valves are installed on main water lines at wells and at all
building entry locations.
   I.   Sewage Disposal In Campgrounds And Recreation Areas: Buried and sealed
vaults for sewage disposal in campgrounds and recreation areas provided, in
addition to the requirements of subsection B of this section, demonstrate
approval by the Montana department of environmental quality and local health
and sanitation permits or approvals.
   J.   Disposal Systems Meeting Local Regulations: Only those solid and
hazardous waste disposal and individual and multiple-family sewage disposal
systems that meet the local health and sanitation regulations and when
permitted pursuant to these regulations and are designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters and avoid impairment or contamination.
   K.   Fences Crossing Channels: Fences crossing channels that have the
potential to stop or impede flow or debris such as a chainlink or privacy fence
require a floodplain development permit and meet the requirements of subsection
M of this section.
   L.   Campgrounds: Public or private campgrounds provided that:
      1.   Access roads require only limited fill and do not obstruct or divert
floodwaters;
      2.   Any proposed structures shall meet the requirements of subsection M
of this section;
      3.   No dwellings or permanent mobile homes are allowed;
      4.   Off property impacts have been considered and found to be
nonexistent, neutral or can be mitigated;
      5.   There is no large scale clearing of riparian vegetation within fifty
feet (50') of the mean annual high water mark; and
      6.   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are licensed and ready for
highway use with wheels intact, with only quick disconnect type utilities and
securing devices, and have no permanently attached additions.
   M.   Structures Accessory Or Appurtenant To Permitted Uses: Structures
accessory or appurtenant to the uses permitted in this section, such as
permanent nonfloating boat docks, floating docks which exceed the standards
outlined in subsection
14-5-4B11 of this chapter, loading and parking areas, marinas, sheds, emergency
airstrips, permanent fences crossing channels, picnic shelters and tables and
lavatories, that are incidental to a principal structure or use, provided that:
      1.   The structures are not intended for human habitation or supportive
of human habitation;
      2.   The structures will have low flood damage potential;
      3.   The structures will, insofar as possible, be located on ground
higher than the surrounding ground and as far from the channel as possible;
      4.   Only those wastewater disposal systems that are approved under
health and sanitation regulations are allowed;
      5.   Service facilities within these structures such as electrical,
heating and plumbing are floodproofed in accordance with
chapter 7 of this title;
      6.   The structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a
minimal obstruction to flood flows and are firmly anchored to prevent
flotation;
      7.   The structures do not require fill and/or substantial excavation;
      8.   The structures or use cannot be changed or altered without permit
approval; and
      9.   The use does not require the large scale clearing of riparian
vegetation within fifty feet (50') of the mean annual high water mark.
   N.   New Surface Water Diversions And Changes: New surface water diversions
and changes in place of diversion, provided that, in addition to the
requirements of subsection B of this section, the design is reviewed and
approved by a registered engineer and includes:
      1.   The proper permits or documentation has been obtained from DNRC
water rights bureau for new surface water diversions and changes in place of
diversion;
      2.   The proposed diversion is designed and constructed to minimize
potential erosion from a base flood; and
      3.   The structure is designed and constructed to withstand up to a base
flood considering the forces associated with hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
pressures including flood depths, velocities, impact, ice, buoyancy, and uplift
forces associated with the base flood.
   O.   Flood Control And Stream Bank Stabilization Measures: The following
flood control and stream bank stabilization measures provided that the design
is reviewed and certified by a registered professional engineer and constructed
to substantially resist or withstand the forces associated with hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic pressures, including flood depths, velocities, impact, ice,
buoyancy, and uplift associated with the base flood. The design must also show
compliance with the conditions set forth:
      1.   Levee and floodwall construction or alteration that meet the
following:
         a.   The proposed levee or floodwall must be designed and constructed
with suitable fill to safely convey a base flood;
         b.   The proposed levee or floodwall, except those to protect
agricultural land, must be constructed at least three feet (3') higher than the
base flood elevation;
         c.   Must meet state and federal levee engineering and construction
standards and be publicly owned and maintained if it protects structures of
more than one landowner; and
         d.   For an increase in the elevation of the base flood, an alteration
of the regulated flood hazard area requires approvals pursuant to section
14-3-14 of this title.
      2.   Stream bank stabilization, pier and abutment protection projects
that meet the following:
         a.   Designed and constructed using methods and materials that are the
least environmentally damaging yet practicable, and should be designed to
withstand a base flood once the project's vegetative components are mature
within a period of up to five (5) years or other time as required by the
floodplain administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established it should
not require substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period;
         b.   Materials for the project may be designed to erode over time but
not fail catastrophically and impact others. Erosion, sedimentation, and
transport of the materials may be designed to be at least similar in amount and
rate of existing stable natural stream banks during the base flood;
         c.   Must not increase erosion upstream, downstream, across from or
adjacent to the site in excess of the existing stable natural stream bank
during the base flood; and
         d.   Materials for the project may include, but are not limited to,
riprap, root wads, brush mattresses, willow wattles, natural woody debris or
combinations of analogous materials.
      3.   Channelization projects where the excavation and/or construction of
a channel is for the purpose of diverting the entire or a portion of the flow
of a stream from its established course, that meet the following:
         a.   Do not increase the magnitude, velocity, or base flood elevation;
and
         b.   Meets the requirements for stream bank stabilization listed
above.
      4.   Dams provided that:
         a.   They are designed and constructed in accordance with the Montana
dam safety act and applicable safety standards; and
         b.   They will not increase flood hazards downstream either through
operational procedures or improper hydrologic/hydraulic design.
   P.   Stream And Bank Restoration Projects: Stream and bank restoration
projects intended to reestablish the terrestrial and aquatic attributes of a
natural stream and not for protection of a structure or development provided
that:
      1.   The project will not increase velocity or erosion upstream,
downstream, across from or adjacent to the site;
      2.   Materials may include, but are not limited to, boulders, rock
cobble, gravel, native streambed materials, root wads, brush mattresses, willow
wattles, natural woody debris or combinations of analogous materials and that
reasonably replicates the bed and bank of the natural stream;
      3.   Erosion, sedimentation, and transport of the materials are not more
than the amount and rate of existing natural stream banks during the base
flood; and
      4.   The project may be designed to allow vegetative materials to mature
within a period of five (5) years or other time as required by the floodplain
administrator. Once vegetation is mature and established it should not require
substantial yearly maintenance after the initial period.
   Q.   Alteration Or Substantial Improvement To An Existing Building: Any
alteration or substantial improvement to an existing building in the floodway
that meets the general requirements of this section and applicable requirements
for residential and nonresidential buildings in section
14-5-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-5-6: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS IN THE FLOOD FRINGE OR REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD
AREA WITH NO FLOODWAY:
   A.   Uses Allowed: All uses allowed by issuance of a floodplain development
permit in the floodway shall also be allowed by permit within the flood fringe
or regulated flood hazard area with no floodway. Such uses are subject to the
requirements of this chapter, with the exception of the encroachment limit of
subsection
14-5-5B2 of this chapter. Instead, such uses are subject to the encroachment
limits of subsection C10 of this section.
   B.   Artificial Obstructions: Except for prohibited artificial obstructions
listed in subsection
14-5-3B of this chapter, all other artificial obstructions including new
construction, substantial improvements, alterations to residential and
nonresidential structures (including, but not limited to, manufactured homes,
commercial, agricultural and industrial), and related suitable fill or
excavation shall be allowed by issuance of a floodplain development permit
subject to the general requirements and specific standards within this section
and subsection
14-4-5G of this title.
   C.   General Requirements: An application for a floodplain development
permit must demonstrate or meet the following requirements, if applicable.
      1.   Structures, excavation or fill must not be prohibited by any other
statute, regulation, ordinance, or resolution; and must be compatible with
subdivision, zoning and any other land use regulations, if any;
      2.   Structures, excavation or fill must be compatible with local
comprehensive plans, if any;
      3.   Where necessary to meet the appropriate elevation requirement in
these regulations, the base flood elevation(s) must be determined by an
engineer and utilized in the design and layout of the project demonstrating the
design and construction criteria herein are met. For regulated flood hazard
areas that do not have a computed and published base flood elevation in the
most recently adopted flood insurance study, a base flood elevation must be
determined or obtained from a reliable source, utilizing appropriate
engineering methods and analyses;
      4.   Structure must be constructed by methods and practices that minimize
flood damage and structures must be reasonably safe from flooding;
      5.   Adequate surface drainage must be provided around structures;
      6.   Structure must be constructed with material resistant to flood
damage;
      7.   All construction and substantial improvements must be designed and
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy;
      8.   Certification by an engineer, architect, land surveyor, or other
qualified person must accompany the application where required including for an
encroachment analysis, adequacy of structural elevations, base flood elevation
determinations, floodproofing, enclosure flood openings and design and
construction to withstand the hydrodynamic forces and hydrostatic pressures of
flood depths, velocities, impact, buoyancy, uplift forces associated with the
base flood and surface drainage. A certification is not intended to constitute
a warranty or guarantee of performance, expressed or implied;
      9.   Structures must have safe access during times of flooding up to the
base flood for ordinary and emergency services provided there are no reasonable
alternate locations for structures. For manufactured homes, access for a
manufactured home hauler is also provided;
      10.   All applications in the regulated flood hazard area without a
floodway must be supported by an encroachment analysis of the proposed use, a
thorough hydrologic and hydraulic analysis except as provided in the following
sections, prepared by an engineer to demonstrate the effect of the structure on
flood flows, velocities, and the base flood elevation:
         a.   The maximum allowable encroachment is certified to be at or less
than 0.5 foot increase to the base flood elevation unless approval of an
alteration of the regulated flood hazard area pursuant to section
14-3-14 of this title and an approved FEMA conditional letter of map revision
occurs before permit issuance;
         b.   An encroachment analysis is not required for any development in
the flood fringe where an accompanying floodway has been designated within the
regulated flood hazard area; and
         c.   Although all other development standards herein apply, a minimal
or qualitative encroachment analysis may be accepted when the project or
development does not require a structure, alteration of the floodplain, involve
fill, grading, excavation or storage of materials or equipment and also is
certified by an engineer to not exceed the allowable encroachment;
      11.   Elevating the lowest floor may be by either suitable fill,
foundation wall enclosure, stem walls, pilings, posts, piers, columns or other
acceptable means;
      12.   Crawl space foundation enclosures including subgrade crawl space
enclosures below the lowest floor must meet the wet floodproofing requirements
of
chapter 7 of this title and be designed so that the crawl space floor is at or
above the base flood elevation. Crawl space foundations must have an inside
dimension of not more than five feet (5') from the ground to the top of the
living floor level and a subgrade crawl space must also have the interior
ground surface no more than two feet (2') below the exterior lowest adjacent
ground surface on all sides. A subgrade foundation exceeding either dimension
is a basement.
   D.   Construction Of Residential Buildings: New construction, alterations,
and substantial improvements of residential buildings including manufactured
homes and the replacement of manufactured homes, must be constructed such that:
      1.   The lowest floor elevation of the building including an attached
garage or basement must be two feet (2') or more above the base flood
elevation;
      2.   The general requirements for all applications outlined in subsection
C of this section are met;
      3.   Enclosures of elevated buildings cannot be dry floodproofed. Use for
an enclosure is limited to facilitating building component access. The
enclosure including a crawl space must be wet floodproofed and the enclosure
floor must be at or above the base flood elevation. An attached garage floor
must be two feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation;
      4.   Suitable fill used to elevate a structure shall meet the
requirements of subsection G of this section outlined in this chapter; and
      5.   Recreational vehicles on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
days or not ready for highway use must meet the requirements for manufactured
homes for residential use.
   E.   Construction Of Nonresidential Structures: New construction,
alterations, and substantial improvements of nonresidential structures
including agricultural, commercial and industrial buildings and residential and
nonresidential accessory buildings must be constructed such that:
      1.   The lowest floor elevation of the building must be elevated two (2)
or more feet above the base flood elevation, or the building must be adequately
dry floodproofed according to
chapter 7 of this title. The lowest floor may be wet floodproofed provided the
use is limited to only parking, loading and storage of equipment, or materials
not appreciably affected by floodwater;
      2.   Enclosures below the lowest floor on elevated buildings must be wet
floodproofed and the use must be limited to parking, access, loading areas, and
storage of equipment or materials not appreciably affected by floodwaters or
must be adequately dry floodproofed according to
chapter 7 of this title; and
      3.   Floodproofing of electrical, heating and plumbing systems shall be
accomplished in accordance with
chapter 7 of this title.
   F.   Manufactured Homes: For new placement, substantial improvement or
replacement of manufactured homes for residential or nonresidential use
including additions:
      1.   The requirements of subsection D of this section must be met;
      2.   The chassis must be secure and must resist flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement by anchoring with anchoring components capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds and as follows:
         a.   For manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long, over the
top ties to ground anchors are required at each of the four (4) corners of the
home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate locations;
         b.   For manufactured homes more than fifty feet (50') long, frame
ties to ground anchors are required at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points; and
      3.   Manufactured homes proposed for use as a nonresidential building
including commercial or industrial, must be elevated and anchored, rather than
dry floodproofed.
   G.   Structural Fill Material: Structural fill material used to elevate
structures, including, but not limited to, residential and nonresidential
buildings must be certified to meet the following requirements:
      1.   The filled area must be at or above the base flood elevation and
extend at least fifteen feet (15') beyond the structure in all directions;
      2.   Fill material must be suitable fill that is stable, compacted, well
graded, pervious, not adversely affected by water and frost, devoid of trash or
similar foreign matter, devoid of tree stumps or other organic material, and is
appropriate for the purpose of supporting the intended use and/or permanent
structure;
      3.   The fill must be compacted to minimize the settlement and compacted
to ninety five percent (95%) of the maximum density. Compaction of earthen fill
must be certified by an engineer;
      4.   No portion of the fill is allowed within the floodway; and
      5.   The fill slope must not be steeper than one and one-half (11/2)
horizontal to one vertical unless substantiating data justifying a steeper
slope is provided and adequate erosion protection is provided for fill slopes
exposed to floodwaters.
   H.   Roads, Streets, Highways And Rail Lines: Roads, streets, highways and
rail lines shall be designed to minimize any increase in flood heights. Where
failure or interruption of transportation facilities would result in danger to
the public health or safety, the facility shall be located two feet (2') above
the base flood elevation.
   I.   Structures For Agricultural Purposes: Agricultural structures not
intended to be insurable, used solely for agricultural purposes, have a low
flood damage potential, used exclusively in connection with the production,
harvesting, storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities including
raising of livestock, and not intended for human habitation such as sheds,
barns, shelters, and hay or grain storage structures are exempt from the
elevation requirement, dry or wet floodproofing, but shall:
      1.   Be located on higher ground and as far from the channel as possible;
      2.   Offer minimal obstruction to flood flows;
      3.   Be adequately anchored to prevent flotation or collapse;
      4.   Where electrical, heating and plumbing systems are installed, meet
the floodproofing requirements located in
chapter 7 of this title; and
      5.   Meet the elevation or dry floodproofing requirements if the
structure is an animal confinement facility.
   J.   Large Scale Clearing Of Riparian Vegetation: Proposed development shall
not have any large scale clearing of riparian vegetation within fifty feet
(50') of the mean annual high water mark. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-5-7: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   Within the regulated flood hazard area subdivisions, including new or
expansion of existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions, must be designed
to meet the following:
      1.   Base flood elevation data and boundary of the regulated flood hazard
area shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed
development, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
14-3-2 or subsection
14-4-2F of this title;
      2.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards;
      3.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      4.   The locations for future structures and development within the
subdivision must be reasonably safe from flooding; and
      5.   Floodplain permits must be obtained according to these regulations
before development occurs that is within the regulated flood hazard area. (Ord.
15-16, 10-5-2015)
CHAPTER 6
REGULATED FLOOD HAZARD AREAS WITHIN THE LAKE AND LAKESHORE PROTECTION ZONE
SECTION:
14-6-1: Joint Approval
14-6-1: JOINT APPROVAL:
Projects regulated by the city of Whitefish lake and lakeshore protection
regulations that have been issued a lake and lakeshore construction permit may
need to obtain a floodplain development permit for activities that the
floodplain administrator finds will have a significant impact on the regulated
flood hazard area.
   A.   Proposed floodplain development projects may be granted a waiver from a
floodplain development permit if the floodplain administrator finds the project
will have no significant impact on the regulated flood hazard area. Proposed
projects include the following:
      1.   Floating docks;
      2.   Waterlines;
      3.   Shore stations;
      4.   Walkways;
      5.   Buoys;
      6.   Floating swim docks;
      7.   Floating trampolines;
      8.   Repair, maintenance, and replacement of existing riprap or retaining
walls at or above the mean high water elevation; and
      9.   Small scale projects that do not require excavating, adding fill, or
dredging. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
CHAPTER 7
FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
14-7-1: Certification
14-7-2: Conformance
14-7-1: CERTIFICATION:
If the following floodproofing requirements are to be utilized for a particular
structure in accordance with these regulations, the methods used must be
certified as adequate by a registered professional engineer, architect, or
other qualified person. (Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-7-2: CONFORMANCE:
Permitted floodproofing systems shall conform to the conditions listed below
and the floodproofing standards listed in subsection
14-5-6E of this title for commercial and industrial buildings:
   A.   Electrical Systems: All electrical service materials, equipment and
installation for uses in a regulated flood hazard area must be certified to
meet the following requirements:
      1.   All incoming power service equipment, including all metering
equipment, control centers, transformers, distribution and lighting panels, and
all other stationary equipment must be located at least two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation;
      2.   Portable and movable electrical equipment may be placed below the
base flood elevation, provided that the equipment can be disconnected by a
single plug and socket assembly of the submersible type;
      3.   The main power service lines must have automatically operated
electrical disconnect equipment or manually operated electrical disconnect
equipment located at an accessible remote location outside the regulated flood
hazard area or two feet (2') above the base flood elevation; and
      4.   All electrical wiring systems installed below the base flood
elevation shall be suitable for continuous submergence and may not contain
fibrous components.
   B.   Heating And Cooling Systems: All heating and cooling systems for uses
in the regulated flood hazard area must be certified to meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Float operated automatic control valves must be installed so that
fuel supply is automatically shut off when floodwaters reach the floor level
where the heating and cooling systems are located;
      2.   Manually operated gate valves must be installed in gas supply lines.
The gate valves must be operable from a location above the base flood
elevation;
      3.   Electric systems must be installed in accordance with the provisions
of subsection A of this section; and
      4.   Furnaces and cooling units must be installed at least two feet (2')
above the base flood elevation and the ductwork installed above the base flood
elevation.
   C.   Plumbing Systems: All plumbing systems for uses in the regulated flood
hazard area must be certified to meet the following requirements:
      1.   Sewer lines, except those to a buried and sealed vault, must have
check valves installed to prevent sewage backup into permitted structures; and
      2.   All toilets, stools, sinks, urinals, vaults, and drains must be
located so the lowest point of possible floodwater entry is at least two feet
(2') above the base flood elevation.
   D.   Wet Floodproofing: Building designs with an enclosure below the lowest
floor must be certified to meet the following:
      1.   Materials used for walls and floors are resistant to flooding to an
elevation two feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation;
      2.   The enclosure must be designed to equalize hydrostatic forces on
walls by allowing for entry and exit of floodwaters. Opening designs must
either be certified by an engineer or architect or meet or exceed the
following:
         a.   Automatically allow entry and exit of floodwaters through
screens, louvers, valves, and other coverings or devices;
         b.   Have two (2) or more openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area below the
lowest floor, except if the enclosure is partially subgrade, a minimum of two
(2) openings may be provided on a single wall; and
         c.   Have the bottom of all openings no higher than one foot (1')
above the higher of the exterior or interior adjacent grade or floor
immediately below the openings.
   E.   Dry Floodproofing: Building designs that do not allow internal flooding
must be certified according to these regulations to meet the following:
      1.   Building use must be for nonresidential use only and does not
include mixed residential and nonresidential use;
      2.   Be floodproofed to an elevation no lower than two feet (2') above
the base flood elevation;
      3.   Be constructed of impermeable membranes or materials for floors and
walls and have watertight enclosures for all windows, doors, and other
openings; and
      4.   Be designed to withstand the hydrostatic pressures and hydrodynamic
forces resulting from the base flood and the effects of buoyancy. (Ord. 15-16,
10-5-2015)
CHAPTER 8
APPENDICES
SECTION:
14-8-1: Appendix A; Sketches Of Floodplain Zones
14-8-2: Appendix B; Effective Flood Insurance Studies And Flood Insurance Rate
Maps
14-8-1: APPENDIX A; SKETCHES OF FLOODPLAIN ZONES:
   CROSS SECTIONAL VIEW WITH NO DEVELOPMENT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2010.gif]
   CROSS SECTIONAL VIEW WITH EXISTING AND NEW DEVELOPMENT PERSPECTIVE VIEW
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2012.gif]
   NEW DEVELOPMENT SITE REQUIREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2b189071d21213505ebf8d6a2709d30d26c59e8a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2014.gif]
(Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
14-8-2: APPENDIX B; EFFECTIVE FLOOD INSURANCE STUDIES AND FLOOD INSURANCE RATE
MAPS:
   CITY OF WHITEFISH FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY
 
Study #    Suffix Effective Date   Description
30029CV001 C      November 4, 2015 Countywide Flood Insurance Study Report,
                                   Volume 1
30029CV002 C      November 4, 2015 Countywide Flood Insurance Study Report,
                                   Volume 2
 
   CITY OF WHITEFISH FLOOD INSURANCE
   RATE MAPS - COMMUNITY NUMBER 300026
Panel # Suffix Effective Date Description
Panel #    Suffix Effective Date     Description
30029C1055 G      September 28, 2007 Lazy Creek area
30029C1060 G      September 28, 2007 Lazy Creek, NW Whitefish Lake, NE
                                     Whitefish Lake, and Rest Haven area
30029C1070 J      November 4, 2015   SW Whitefish Lake, Beaver Lake, and Skyles
                                     Lake
30029C1080 G      September 28, 2007 NE Whitefish Lake and Big Mountain area
30029C1090 J      November 4, 2015   City of Whitefish, Blanchard Lake, portion
                                     of Whitefish Lake and Whitefish River
30029C1095 J      November 4, 2015   Walker Creek, Haskill Creek, and Whitefish
                                     River
30029C1405 J      November 4, 2015   Blanchard Lake and Lost Coon Lake
30029C1410 G      September 28, 2007 Whitefish River area
 
(Ord. 15-16, 10-5-2015)
TITLE 15
FRANCHISES
CHAPTER 1
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM FRANCHISE
SECTION:
15-1-1: Nonexclusive Franchise
15-1-2: Definitions
15-1-3: Term Of Franchise
15-1-4: Level Of Service
15-1-5: Conditions Of Street Occupancy
15-1-6: Technical And Safety Specifications
15-1-7: System Construction And Extension
15-1-8: Rates
15-1-9: Franchise Payments
15-1-10: Indemnification
15-1-11: Termination Of Franchise
15-1-12: Procedures
15-1-13: Transfer Of Franchise
15-1-14: Company Regulations
15-1-15: Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances
15-1-16: Dedications Of Access
15-1-1: NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE:
A nonexclusive franchise is hereby granted to Group W Cable, Inc., hereinafter
referred to as company, to install, construct, operate, maintain, reconstruct
and expand a cable television system within the public streets, ways, alleys,
rights of way and places of the city. (Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is mandatory.
BASIC SERVICE: The distribution of television and other signals by the company
to all subscribers for a single monthly fee, not including services such as
home box office, or any other channels or services which are or will be
provided at additional cost to the subscriber.
CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE: A system of antennas, cables, amplifiers, towers,
microwave links, waveguides, laser beams, satellites, earth stations or any
other conductors for the purpose of producing, receiving, amplifying, storing,
processing or distributing audio, video, digital or other forms of electronic
or electrical signals.
CITY: The city of Whitefish, a municipal corporation located in Flathead
County, state of Montana, and all territory within its present or future
geographic boundaries.
COMPANY: Group W Cable, Inc., dba Teleprompter Corp., the grantee of the rights
under this chapter, its successors and assigns.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION OR FCC: That federal agency established by
the communications act of 1934, or any successor agency as established by
congress.
GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUES: Total revenue from basic service, and total revenues
from HBO, Showtime, and/or any other channels or services which are or will be
provided at additional cost to the subscriber. Gross subscriber revenues shall
not include revenue derived from any taxes on services furnished by the
company, imposed directly on any subscriber by any city, state or other
governmental unit and collected by the company for such governmental unit.
STREET: The surface or the space above or below any public street, sidewalk,
alley, easement, dedicated public way or other public way of any type
whatsoever, now or hereafter existing as such within the jurisdiction of the
city.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person, firm, corporation or other entity receiving a service
by means of the company's cable television system. (Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-3: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
This franchise and the rights and privileges granted herein shall take effect
thirty (30) days after final passage and approval of this chapter on May 3,
1982 and remain in force and effect for a period of twenty (20) years from that
date, provided that the company accepts the terms of this franchise within said
thirty (30) day period.
The company shall have the right to renew this franchise for an additional five
(5) year term, provided that the company has complied with the material terms
of this franchise during the original term. The company shall give the city six
(6) months written notice of its intention to renew the franchise. (Ord. A-408,
5-2-1982)
15-1-4: LEVEL OF SERVICE:
During the term of the franchise, the company shall not reduce the level of
basic service from the level which the company provided at the beginning of the
term of the franchise. (Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-5: CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY:
Streets may be occupied on the following conditions:
   A.   The company shall locate all structures, lines, equipment and other
such property of the company within the city so as to cause minimum
interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners
whose property adjoins said streets. The cable television system shall be
constructed and operated in compliance with applicable construction and
electrical codes.
   B.   The company shall, at its own expense, restore all damage to public and
private property which the company disrupts, to as nearly as possible as good a
condition as immediately before the property was disrupted.
   C.   The company shall, at the written request of any person holding a valid
building moving permit, temporarily raise or lower its cable to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of cable
shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the company may require
payment in advance. The company shall be given no less than seventy two (72)
hours advance written notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
   D.   The company shall have the authority to trim trees upon and overhanging
streets so as to prevent the branches of such trees from interfering with the
property of the company, provided that the city reserves the right to supervise
and direct said trimming efforts of the company.
   E.   The company shall, to the extent it is economically and technologically
feasible, place its cables, wires or other like facilities underground in a
particular area, if at any time during the term of the franchise the cables,
wires or other facilities of all public utilities in the same area are placed
underground.
   F.   The company shall protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate in
the same street or other public place, or remove from the street or other
public place (all such activity of the company being herein referred to as
relocation) property of the company when reasonably required by the city by
reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street construction, change or
establishment of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, water pipes,
power lines and tracks or structures or improvements by public agencies.
   G.   If public funds are available to any utility company for the purpose of
defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, such funds shall also be made
available to the company.
   H.   Subject to any applicable state or federal regulations or tariffs, the
city shall have the right to make additional use, for any public purpose, of
any poles or conduits controlled or maintained exclusively by or for the
company in any street, provided such use by the city does not interfere with
the use by the company. The city hereby holds the company harmless against and
from all claims, demands, causes of actions, suits, actions, proceedings,
damages, costs or liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out
of such use of said poles or conduits. (Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-6: TECHNICAL AND SAFETY SPECIFICATIONS:
The company shall comply with the following technical and safety requirements:
   A.   The company shall operate and maintain its cable television system in
compliance with the applicable regulations and performance standards of the
federal communications commission.
   B.   The company shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall use
commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents
which are likely to cause damage, injuries or nuisances to the public.
   C.   The company shall maintain all structures, lines and equipment in,
over, under and upon the streets wherever located, in a safe condition, and in
good order and repair. (Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-7: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND EXTENSION:
   A.   The company is hereby authorized, at its own discretion, to extend its
cable television system within the franchise area to the extent that such
extension is or may become technically and economically feasible.
   B.   Whenever the company shall have received written requests for service
from at least fifteen (15) subscribers within four hundred (400) cable meters
(1,300 cable feet) of its aerial trunk cable, or from at least twenty five (25)
subscribers within four hundred (400) cable meters (1,300 cable feet) of its
underground trunk cable, it shall extend the cable television system to such
subscribers solely for the usual connection and service fees for all
subscribers, provided that such extension is technically and economically
feasible. The four hundred (400) meters shall be measured in extension length
of company's cable required for service located within the public way or
easement and shall not include length of necessary drop to the subscriber's
home or premises.
   C.   No person in the company's service area shall be arbitrarily refused
service; but in recognition of the capital costs involved in unusual
circumstances, including, without limitation, instances when the distance from
distribution cable to connection or service to subscribers is more than forty
five (45) meters (150 cable feet) or when a subscriber density exists less than
the density specified hereinabove, services may be made available on the basis
of costs of materials, labor and easements, in order to prevent inequitable
burdens on subscribers in more densely populated areas. (Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-8: RATES:
Rates charged by the company shall provide the company with a fair and
reasonable return on its investment and shall not be regulated by the city.
(Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-9: FRANCHISE PAYMENTS:
The company shall pay the city, on or before each March 31, a franchise fee of
three percent (3%) of gross subscriber revenues for cable television operations
within the city for the preceding calendar year. The company shall provide an
annual summary report showing annual gross subscriber revenues received during
the preceding year. The records of the company reflecting information in
relation to this section shall be available for inspection by duly authorized
representatives of the city at all reasonable hours and upon reasonable notice.
(Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-10: INDEMNIFICATION:
In order that the city shall be protected:
   A.   The company shall at all times hold the city harmless from all claims,
liability or damage of every kind and description (herein collectively referred
to as claims) including court costs and reasonable attorney's fees, which may
arise out of the sole negligence of the company in the ownership, construction,
maintenance or operation of the cable television system within the city;
provided that the city shall give the company prompt written notice of any
claims filed against it. The company shall have the right to defend, settle or
compromise any claims arising hereunder.
   B.   The company shall maintain in full force and effect during the life of
this franchise, public liability insurance in an insurance company authorized
to do business in the state of Montana, in the amount of at least:
      1.   $500,000.00 property damage in any one accident;
      2.   $500,000.00 for personal injury to any one person;
      3.   $750,000.00 for personal injury in any one accident. (Ord. A-408, 5-
2-1982)
15-1-11: TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE:
The city shall have the right to revoke or cancel this franchise for a
substantial breach of any of the material terms and conditions of this
franchise by the company. No such revocation shall be effective until the city
has given the company written notice of the condition or omission which is the
basis for the revocation. The company shall have sixty (60) days from the
receipt of said written notice or such additional time as is reasonably
necessary to correct the aforementioned condition or omission. If the company
fails to correct said condition or omission, the city may, but is not required
to, revoke this franchise in accordance with the procedures listed in section
15-1-12 of this chapter.
The company shall not be in violation of this franchise and no revocation shall
be effected if the company is prevented from performing its duties and
obligations or observing the terms and conditions of this franchise by an act
of God, labor dispute, manufacturers' or contractors' inability to timely
provide personnel or material, or other causes of like or different nature,
collectively referred to as acts of God.
Upon the termination or expiration of this franchise, the company may enter
upon the streets of the city for the purposes of removing therefrom its
property and equipment. In removing its property, the company shall, at its own
expense, leave the streets or other public property in as nearly as possible as
good a condition as that prevailing immediately prior to the company's removal
of its property. (Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-12: PROCEDURES:
In order that all parties be afforded due process of law:
   A.   Any inquiry, proceeding, investigation or other action taken or
proposed to be taken by the city affecting operation of the company's cable
television system, shall be taken only after:
      1.   The minimum legally required public notice is published in a local
newspaper having general circulation in the city (and in the absence of any
such requirement, the notice shall be published at least ten (10) days prior to
the date of the proposed action); and
      2.   A written summary of such action or proposed action is served on the
company at least ten (10) days prior to the proposed action; and
      3.   The company has been given an opportunity to respond, in writing,
and at any hearing held by the city.
   B.   The public notice required by this section shall state clearly the
action or proposed action to be taken, the time provided for response and the
person or persons in authority to whom such responses should be addressed, and
such other procedures as may be specified by the city. If a hearing is to be
held, the public notice shall give the date and time of such hearing, whether
public participation will be allowed and the procedures by which such
participation may be obtained. The company shall be an indispensable party to
any proceedings conducted in regard to its operations.
   C.   Failure to follow the procedures set out in this section will render
the action, as to the company, null and void and shall have no effect
whatsoever upon the rights granted to the company by this franchise. (Ord. A-
408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-13: TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE:
The company may not sell or transfer its rights under this franchise to
another, other than a parent company, a wholly owned subsidiary of a parent
company, or a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, except as security for
movies borrowed, without city approval. Such city approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld. (Ord. A-408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-14: COMPANY REGULATIONS:
The company shall have the authority, consistent with applicable FCC rules and
regulations and the provisions of this franchise, to promulgate such rules,
regulations, terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business with
subscribers as shall be reasonable and necessary to enable the company to
exercise its rights and perform its obligations under this franchise. (Ord. A-
408, 5-2-1982)
15-1-15: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The company shall conform to all applicable laws, rules and regulations of the
United States, the state of Montana and the city in the construction and
operation of its cable television system. The city reserves the right to adopt
such additional regulations as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its
police power, provided such regulations are reasonable and not materially in
conflict with the rights and privileges granted in this franchise. (Ord. A-408,
5-2-1982)
15-1-16: DEDICATIONS OF ACCESS:
   A.   In the event that the company expands the number of cable television
channels beyond twelve (12) channels, then the company shall reserve and
dedicate one access channel to the city for public use by the city and others,
and the city shall have the sole power to determine public use of said
dedicated channel. The company shall not be required to provide more than one
access channel for use by all municipalities served by the cable television
system. The city acknowledges that the company has no studio and very limited
equipment for use in the cable television system at present. This section shall
not be construed as a requirement on the company to acquire a studio or
additional equipment. However, if the company, in its discretion does acquire a
studio or equipment for use within the city, the company shall make such studio
and equipment available to the city for a reasonable fee for the purpose of
producing programming for public access. The company shall be permitted to
reasonably regulate the use of its studio and equipment to prevent misuse or
abuse of the public access channel or its studio or equipment.
   B.   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the company shall, upon
request of the city, make available its facilities to the city for emergency
use during the emergency or disaster period.
   C.   The city hereby holds the company harmless against and from all claims,
demands, causes of actions, suits, actions, proceedings, damages, costs or
liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out of any of the above
uses, including, but not limited to, any inability to provide emergency
messages, failure for any reason to provide emergency messages, or negligence
of the company or any other person in providing emergency messages. (Ord. A-
408, 5-2-1982)
CHAPTER 2
NATURAL GAS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
15-2-1: Franchise Granted
15-2-2: Duty To Construct And Maintain
15-2-3: Extension Of Delivery
15-2-4: Supply
15-2-5: Discontinuance Of Delivery
15-2-6: Professional Workmanship; Change In Location; Permits
15-2-7: Indemnification
15-2-8: Insurance
15-2-9: Authority To Make Assignments
15-2-10: Forfeiture
15-2-11: Effective Date
15-2-12: Term Of Franchise
15-2-1: FRANCHISE GRANTED:
There is hereby granted to NorthWestern Corporation DBA NorthWestern Energy,
its successors, and assigns ("franchisee"), the right, privilege, and franchise
(collectively the "franchise") under the terms contained herein to construct,
equip, lay, maintain and operate in, under, upon, over and across the streets,
avenues, alleys, highways, bridges, easements and other public places in the
city of Whitefish, Montana ("city"), as now or hereafter constituted, natural
gas delivery facilities for the purposes of transporting, conveying,
distributing, supplying and selling natural gas services for heat, power and
other purposes. Such natural gas services shall be provided at rates fixed and
allowed by the Montana public service commission, and franchisee agrees to make
publicly available the schedules of rates thus fixed or allowed as required by
the laws of Montana. (Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-2: DUTY TO CONSTRUCT AND MAINTAIN:
Franchisee agrees to construct and maintain all natural gas delivery facilities
according to current industry standards and in compliance with all applicable
codes, rules, regulations, statutes, and orders of local, state, and federal
agencies having jurisdiction in such matters. (Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-3: EXTENSION OF DELIVERY:
Franchisee shall extend its natural gas delivery facilities to such parts of
the city as the provision of franchisee's natural gas services shall justify.
(Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-4: SUPPLY:
Franchisee, at all times during the existence of this franchise, shall use its
best efforts to obtain, deliver and supply a continuous, sufficient and
adequate quantity of natural gas for use by said city and franchisee's
customers, provided, however, that franchisee shall not be liable to said city
or to franchisee's customers because of the interruption or discontinuance of
the supply of natural gas by causes beyond the reasonable control of
franchisee. (Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF DELIVERY:
Franchisee shall not discontinue the delivery of natural gas through its
natural gas delivery facilities, or any portion thereof, for an unreasonable
length of time for the purpose of making repairs and extensions, but franchisee
shall not be liable to the city or any of franchisee's customers for damages
caused by such temporary discontinuance or interruption of the delivery of
natural gas, provided that such repairs and extensions are made with reasonable
efforts. (Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-6: PROFESSIONAL WORKMANSHIP; CHANGE IN LOCATION; PERMITS:
All work done in, under, upon, over, and across the present and future streets,
avenues, alleys, highways, bridges, easements, and other public places in the
city by franchisee for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this
franchise shall be done and performed in a professional manner. When any
street, alley, or other public place in said city is excavated or damaged by
franchisee by reason of such work, franchisee shall restore such street, alley,
or public place to its former condition as early as practicable. Franchisee
agrees to follow the Whitefish air quality district regulations for
construction and repair.
If at any time a change in the grade or plan of any street, alley, or public
place shall be made by order of the proper city officials, franchisee shall,
without expense to the city, make such changes in the location of its natural
gas delivery facilities as the change of the grade or plan of the street,
alley, or public place makes necessary, which said changes shall be made as
soon as possible after said franchisee shall have received notice from the
proper city official having the charge of the same.
Franchisee agrees to submit applications for excavation permits to the city's
public works department and be billed for and pay the applicable excavation
permit fees and any street or sidewalk cutting fees. If an emergency situation
arises, franchisee may make the necessary repairs and turn in an application
and pay the necessary fees during or after the repairs are made. (Ord. 13-10,
12-2-2013)
15-2-7: INDEMNIFICATION:
To the fullest extent permitted by law, franchisee shall fully indemnify,
defend, and hold harmless the city, its employees, and officers from and
against any and all claims, demands, causes of action, judgments, costs, fees,
losses, liabilities, damages or expense, including reasonable attorney fees,
incurred or required to be paid by reason of personal injury or death or on
account of damage to property of whatever kind or nature arising from or
related to franchisee's performance of work in the public right of way under
this franchise agreement. (Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-8: INSURANCE:
Franchisee shall maintain throughout the term of this franchise, liability
insurance, in the minimum amount of one million five hundred thousand dollars
($1,500,000.00), with primary and noncontributory coverage, to insure and/or
protect the city with respect to the installation, operation and maintenance of
the natural gas delivery facilities together with the necessary and desirable
appurtenances authorized herein to occupy the public rights of way or public
utility easements. Such insurance will provide protection for bodily injury and
property damage including, without limitation, contractual liability and legal
liability arising from collapse and underground incidents. Franchisee shall
name the city as an additional insured on the liability policy that requires
the insurance company to send a notice of cancellation or nonrenewal.
Franchisee shall file with the city, within thirty (30) days following the
effective date of this franchise, a certificate of insurance evidencing proof
of said insurance required pursuant to this section and annually thereafter.
(Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-9: AUTHORITY TO MAKE ASSIGNMENTS:
Franchisee is hereby given the right and authority to make assignments of this
franchise, and its rights hereunder, provided all assignees agree to be bound
to the same extent as the original franchisee. (Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-10: FORFEITURE:
Except as provided in this section, failure on the part of franchisee to comply
in any substantial respect with any provision of this franchise shall be
grounds for forfeiture thereof. No forfeiture shall take effect unless either:
a) franchisee agrees to the forfeiture, or b) a court of competent jurisdiction
(with a right of appeal in either party) has ruled that franchisee failed to
comply in a substantial respect with any provision of this franchise and
franchisee has not cured the failure found by the court within six (6) months
after the court's final order. The city council, in its discretion, may grant
additional time to franchisee to cure the failure as it deems reasonable. (Ord.
13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after thirty (30) days
after the final passage and approval hereof, provided franchisee shall file
with the city clerk a written acceptance of this chapter within said thirty
(30) day period, but if such acceptance is not so filed, this chapter shall be
void. (Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
15-2-12: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
This franchise shall be hereby granted for an initial term of ten (10) years
from and after the date of the final acceptance of this chapter by the
franchisee. Thereafter, this franchise will automatically renew every ten (10)
years for an additional term of ten (10) years, unless canceled by either party
by written notice to the other party, no less than one year prior to the end of
the then current term. During the term of this franchise, if Montana law should
change with respect to franchise fees or if franchisee agrees to pay franchise
fees to a Montana municipality pursuant to a franchise agreement, either party
may open negotiations specific to that future change in Montana law or other
franchise agreement. Those negotiations, which at this point are hypothetical,
shall be done separately and apart from the current franchise and shall not
change any terms of this franchise agreement. (Ord. 13-10, 12-2-2013)
