CITY OF WILBER, NEBRASKA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local leegislation current through Ord. 981, passed 6-11-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Local changes to this code of ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances shall be designated as the City of Wilber
Code of Ordinances and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Wilber,
Nebraska.
      CITY COUNCIL or GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the city.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Saline County, Nebraska.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Includes bodies politic and corporate, societies, communities,
the public generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies,
joint-stock companies and associations.
(Neb. RS 49-801(16))
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Nebraska.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Mayor
and City Council or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever a section refers to another section hereof, that reference shall
extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently amended, revised,
recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is materially altered by the
amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code contains all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to
the subjects enumerated and embraced in this code. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code are repealed, except that
nothing shall affect any rights acquired under, actions involving or fines,
penalties, forfeitures or liabilities incurred pursuant to those ordinances
prior to repeal.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, including ordinances
specified in this section, shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed expressly or by necessary implication:
   (A)   Vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys or other public
places;
   (B)   Annexing or detaching territory;
   (C)   Granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to public
use;
   (D)   Providing for the acquisition or conveyance of real or personal
property;
   (E)   Authorizing or directing public improvements to be made;
   (F)   Levying taxes or special assessments;
   (G)   Appropriating money;
   (H)   Granting franchises or special licenses; or
   (I)   Providing for the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
indebtedness.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance is repealed or modified
by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus repealed
or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it to give effect thereto.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, liability, fine, forfeiture or penalty
instituted, created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to
its repeal shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be
prosecuted, enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in
force, unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
is itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for amendments and revisions, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (Neb. RS 18-
132)
   (B)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 et seq.
§ 10.17 LOCAL CHANGES TO THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be repealed, modified or
superseded by an ordinance passed by the City Council.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 6-401)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 6-402)
(Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City seal
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the city shall be kept in the office of the
Municipal Clerk and shall bear the following inscription, “City of Wilber,
Nebraska, Seal.” The Municipal Clerk shall affix an impression of the said
official seal to all warrants, licenses, permits, ordinances and all other
official papers issued by order of the governing body and countersigned by the
Municipal Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-401)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-502
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   FORMS OF LEGISLATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
Mayor
   
30.01   Powers and duties
   
30.02   Vacancy
City Council
   
30.15   Election; qualifications; terms
   
30.16   President; Acting President
   
30.17   Vacancy; general provisions
   
30.18   Standing committees
MAYOR
§ 30.01 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The
Mayor may vote on any matter that requires either a majority vote of the City
Council or a majority vote of all the elected members of the City Council if
the Mayor’s vote is required due to the City Council members being equally
divided or a majority of the City Council members or majority vote of all the
elected members cannot be reached due to absence, vacancy or abstention of one
or more City Council members. For purposes of such vote, the Mayor is deemed to
be a member of the City Council.
      (2)   The Mayor shall have superintendence and control of all the
officers and affairs of the city and shall take care that the ordinances of the
city and all laws governing cities of the second class are complied with.
(Neb. RS 17-110)
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by
the City Council and to approve or veto any order, bylaw, resolution, award of
or vote to enter into any contract or the allowance of any claim. If the Mayor
approves the ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or claim, he or she
shall sign it, and it shall become effective. If the Mayor vetoes the
ordinance, order, bylaw, resolution, contract or any item or items of
appropriations or claims, he or she shall return it to the City Council stating
that the measure is vetoed. The Mayor may issue the veto at the meeting at
which the measure passed or within seven calendar days after the meeting. If
the Mayor issues the veto after the meeting, the Mayor shall notify the City
Clerk of the veto in writing. The Clerk shall notify the City Council in
writing of the Mayor’s veto. Any order, bylaw, resolution, award of or vote to
enter into any contract, or the allowance of any claim vetoed by the Mayor may
be passed over his or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council. If the Mayor neglects or refuses to sign any ordinance, order, bylaw,
resolution, award of or vote to enter into any contract or the allowance of any
claim, but fails to veto the measure within the time required by this section,
the measure shall become effective without his or her signature. The Mayor may
veto any item or items of any appropriation bill or any claims bill, and
approve the remainder thereof, and the item or items vetoed may be passed by
the Council over the veto as in other cases.
(Neb. RS 17-111)
   (C)   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the City Council
such information and recommend such measures as, in his or her opinion, may
tend to the improvement of the finances, the police, health, security,
ornament, comfort and general prosperity of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-112)
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the power, when he or she deems it necessary, to
require any officer of the city to exhibit his or her accounts or other papers,
and to make reports to the Council, in writing, touching any subject or matter
pertaining to his or her office.
(Neb. RS 17-113)
   (E)   The Mayor shall have such jurisdiction as may be vested in him or her
by ordinance, over all places within five miles of the corporate limits of the
city, for the enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinance and regulation
thereof, and shall have jurisdiction in all matters vested in him or her by
ordinance, excepting taxation, within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction
of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-114)
   (F)   The Mayor shall have the power to remit fines and forfeitures and to
grant reprieves and pardons for all offenses arising under the ordinances of
the city.
(Neb. RS 17-117)
   (G)   The Mayor shall hold no other elective or appointive office or
employment with the city.
   (H)   The Mayor shall sign the City Clerk’s minutes of all meetings of the
City Council, and he or she shall sign all resolutions that have been passed
and warrants for the payment of money when ordered by the Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall have such other duties as are reposed in the Mayor by
the laws of the state or as the Council may by resolution confer upon the
Mayor.
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.02 VACANCY.
   (A)   The office of Mayor shall be vacant upon the happening of any of the
events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any vacancy in the office of Mayor, or in case of his
or her disability or absence, the President of the City Council shall exercise
the office of Mayor for the unexpired term, until such disability is removed
or, in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor returns.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
      (2)   If the President of the Council assumes the office of Mayor for the
unexpired term, there shall be a vacancy on the Council.
(Neb. RS 17-107 and 32-568)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS.
   (A)   The City Council shall consist of not less than four nor more than 12
residents of the city who are registered voters.
(Neb. RS 17-103)
   (B)   All Council members shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
ballot unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
   (C)   If members of the Council are not elected at large:
      (1)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, the city shall be divided into not less than two nor more than six
wards, as provided by ordinance of the City Council. Each ward shall contain,
as nearly as practicable, an equal portion of the population;
(Neb. RS 17-102)
      (2)   Unless the city elects Council members at large as provided in Neb.
RS 32-554, each ward of the city shall have at least two Council members
elected in the manner provided in the Election Act. No person shall be eligible
to the office of Council member who is not at the time of the election an
actual resident of the ward for which he or she is elected and a registered
voter; and
(Neb. RS 17-104)
      (3)   Such wards shall be substantially equal in population as determined
by the most recent federal decennial census.
(Neb. RS 32-553)
   (D)   The term of office shall begin on the first regular meeting of the
Council in December following the statewide general election.
(Neb. RS 17-104)
   (E)   Members of the Council shall serve for terms of four years or until
their successors are elected and qualified.
(Neb. RS 32-533)
   (F)   If the city operates under a city manager plan, members of the City
Council shall be residents and registered voters of the city and shall hold no
other employment with the city. Any Council member who ceases to possess any of
the qualifications required by this section or who has been convicted of a
felony or of any public offense involving the violation of the oath of office
of such member while in office shall forthwith forfeit such office.
(Neb. RS 19-613)
Statutory reference:
   Ability to elect council members at large or by ward, see Neb. RS 32-554
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
   Other requirements for wards, see Neb. RS 32-552 and 32-553
   Restrictions on holding other office or employment, see Neb. RS 17-108.02,
32-109, 32-603 and 32-604
§ 30.16 PRESIDENT; ACTING PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall elect one of its own body, who shall be styled
the President of the Council and who shall preside at all meetings of the
Council in the absence of the Mayor.
   (B)   In the absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its
own body to occupy his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled Acting
President of the Council.
   (C)   The President, and Acting President, when occupying the place of the
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council; and all
acts of the President or Acting President, while so acting, shall be as binding
upon the Council and upon the city as if done by the Mayor.
(Neb. RS 17-148)
§ 30.17 VACANCY; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The office of member of the City Council shall be vacant upon the
happening of any of the events specified in Neb. RS 32-560 except as provided
in Neb. RS 32-561.
   (B)   Any vacancy on the City Council shall be filled as provided in
division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 32-568)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (C)(3)
or § 30.03, vacancies in city elective offices shall be filled by the Mayor and
Council for the balance of the unexpired term. Notice of a vacancy, except a
vacancy resulting from the death of the incumbent, shall be in writing and
presented to the Council at a regular or special meeting and shall appear as a
part of the minutes of such meeting. The Council shall at once give public
notice of the vacancy by causing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city or by posting in three public places in the city
the office vacated and the length of the unexpired term.
         (b)   The Mayor shall call a special meeting of the Council or place
the issue of filling such vacancy on the agenda at the next regular meeting at
which time the Mayor shall submit the name of a qualified registered voter to
fill the vacancy for the balance of the unexpired term. The regular or special
meeting shall occur upon the death of the incumbent or within four weeks after
the meeting at which such notice of vacancy has been presented. The Council
shall vote upon the nominee, and if a majority votes in favor of the nominee,
the vacancy shall be declared filled. If the nominee fails to receive a
majority of the votes, the nomination shall be rejected and the Mayor shall, at
the next regular or special meeting, submit the name of another qualified
registered voter to fill the vacancy. If the subsequent nominee fails to
receive a majority of the votes, the Mayor shall continue at that meeting to
submit the names of qualified registered voters in nomination and the Council
shall continue to vote upon the nominations at such meeting until the vacancy
is filled. The Mayor shall cast his or her vote for or against the nominee in
case of a tie vote of the Council. All Council members present shall cast a
ballot for or against the nominee. Any member of the Council who has been
appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council shall have the same rights,
including voting, as if that person were elected.
      (2)   The Mayor and Council may, in lieu of filling a vacancy in a city
elected office as provided in division (C)(1) above, call a special city
election to fill such vacancy.
      (3)   If vacancies exist in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council, the Secretary of State shall conduct a special
city election to fill such vacancies.
(Neb. RS 32-569)
Statutory reference:
   Additional and similar provisions, see Neb. RS 32-560 through 32-572
   Ineligibility of person subjected to recall, see Neb. RS 32-1308
§ 30.18 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall
appoint members of such standing committees as the City Council may by
ordinance or resolution create. The membership of such standing committees may
be changed at any time by the Mayor. The Mayor shall be a member ex officio of
each standing committee. The members of the standing committees shall serve a
term of office of one year, unless reappointed.
   (B)   The following standing committees shall be appointed or reappointed
each year until changed by the governing body:
      (1)   Landfill;
      (2)   Electric;
      (3)   Law Enforcement;
      (4)   Street and Bridge;
      (5)   Sewer and Water;
      (6)   Fire and Rescue Squad;
      (7)   Fire Sinking Fund;
      (8)   Swimming Pool;
      (9)   Library; and
      (10)   Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 967, passed 1-10-2023)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Appointment of officers
   
31.02   Merger of offices
   
31.03   City Clerk
   
31.04   City Treasurer
   
31.05   City Attorney
   
31.06   City Physician
   
31.07   Police Chief
   
31.08   Police officers
   
31.09   Fire Chief
   
31.10   Water Commissioner/Public Works Commissioner
   
31.11   Sewer Commissioner
   
31.12   Overseer of Streets
   
31.13   Street Commissioner
   
31.14   City Engineer; special engineer
   
31.15   Building Inspector
   
31.16   Electrical Inspector
   
31.17   Plumbing Inspector
   
31.18   Zoning Inspector
   
31.19   City Office and Programs Administrator
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the consent of the City Council, may appoint
such officers as shall be required by ordinance or otherwise required by law.
Such officers may be removed from office by the Mayor.
      (2)   The terms of office for all officers, except regular police
officers, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council shall be
established by the City Council by ordinance. The ordinance shall provide that
either:
         (a)   The officers hold the office to which they have been appointed
until the end of the Mayor’s term of office and until their successors are
appointed and qualified unless sooner removed; or
         (b)   The officers hold office for one year unless sooner removed.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and
prescribe the powers and duties of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
      (2)   If the Mayor and City Council appoint any of the officials
specified in this chapter or any other officials, the officials shall have the
powers and duties, if any, provided in this chapter or as otherwise provided by
city ordinances and state law.
§ 31.02 MERGER OF OFFICES.
   (A)   The City Council may at its discretion by ordinance combine and merge
any elective or appointive office or employment or any combination of duties of
any such offices or employments, except Mayor and Councilmember, with any other
elective or appointive office or employment so that one or more of such offices
or employments or any combination of duties of any such offices or employments
may be held by the same officer or employee at the same time.
   (B)   The offices or employments so merged and combined shall always be
construed to be separate, and the effect of the combination or merger shall be
limited to a consolidation of official duties only.
   (C)   The salary or compensation of the officer or employee holding the
merged and combined offices or employments or offices and employments shall not
be in excess of the maximum amount provided by law for the salary or
compensation of the office, offices, employment, or employments so merged and
combined.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, volunteer firefighters and ambulance
drivers shall not be considered officers.
(Neb. RS 17-108.02)
§ 31.03 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall have the custody of all laws and ordinances and
shall keep a correct journal of the proceedings of the City Council. After the
period of time specified by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the
Records Management Act, the Clerk may transfer the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council to the State Archives of the Nebraska State Historical
Society for permanent preservation. The Clerk shall also perform such other
duties as may be required by the ordinances of the city. If the Clerk is acting
as the Treasurer, he or she shall also comply with the requirements of §
31.05(A)(3).
(Neb. RS 17-605)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and publish the
official proceedings of the City Council within 30 days after any meeting of
the Council. The publication shall be in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city, shall set forth a statement of the proceedings of the meeting, and
shall also include the amount of each claim allowed, the purpose of the claim,
and the name of the claimant, except that the aggregate amount of all payroll
claims may be included as one item. Between July 15 and August 15 of each year,
the employee job titles and the current annual, monthly, or hourly salaries
corresponding to such job titles shall be published. Each job title published
shall be descriptive and indicative of the duties and functions of the
position. The charge for the publication shall not exceed the rates provided
for in Neb. RS 23-122.
(Neb. RS 19-1102)
      (2)   Publication under division (B)(1) above shall be made in one legal
newspaper of general circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is
published in the city, then the publication shall be made in one legal
newspaper published or of general circulation within the county in which the
city is located. The cost of publication shall be paid out of the general funds
of the city.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   The Clerk shall dispose of or destroy city public records when the
records have been determined to be of no further legal, administrative, fiscal,
or historical value by the State Records Administrator pursuant to the Records
Management Act. This shall not apply to the minutes of the Clerk and the
permanent ordinance and resolution books, or any other record classified as
permanent by the State Records Administrator.
(Neb. RS 18-1701)
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Clerk’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies of a
public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
      (2)   The Clerk may charge a reasonable fee for certified copies of any
record in his or her office as set by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The Clerk shall permit no records, public papers, or other documents
of the city kept and preserved in his or her office to be taken therefrom,
except by such officers of the city as may be entitled to the use of the same,
but only upon their leaving a receipt therefor, and except pursuant to Neb. RS
84-712(2). He or she shall keep all the records of his or her office, including
a record of all licenses issued by him or her, in a blank book with a proper
index. He or she shall include as part of his or her records all petitions
under which the City Council shall order public work to be done at the expense
of the property fronting thereon, together with references to all resolutions
and ordinances relating to the same. He or she shall endorse the date and hour
of filing upon every paper or document so filed in his or her office. All such
filings made by him or her shall be properly docketed. Included in his or her
records shall be all standard codes, amendments thereto, and other documents
incorporated by reference and arranged in triplicate in a manner convenient for
reference. He or she shall keep an accurate and complete account of the
appropriation of the several funds and draw, sign, and attest all warrants
ordered for the payment of money on the particular fund from which the same is
payable. At the end of each month, he or she shall then make a report of the
amounts appropriated to the various funds and the amount of the warrants drawn
thereon.
   (F)   The Clerk shall deliver all warrants, ordinances, and resolutions
under his or her charge to the Mayor for his or her signature. He or she shall
also deliver to officers, employees, and committees all resolutions and
communications which are directed at such officers, employees, or committees.
With the seal of the city, he or she shall duly attest the Mayor’s signature to
all ordinances, deeds, and papers required to be attested to when ordered to do
so by the City Council.
   (G)   The Clerk shall issue and sign all licenses, permits, and occupation
tax receipts authorized by law and required by the city ordinances. He or she
shall collect all occupation taxes and license money, except where some other
city officer is specifically charged with that duty. He or she shall keep a
register of all licenses granted in the city and the purpose for which they
have been issued.
   (H)   The Clerk shall keep in a book with a proper index, copies of all
notices required to be published or posted by the Clerk by order of the City
Council or under the ordinances of the city. To each of the file copies of the
notices shall be attached the printer’s affidavit of publication, if the
notices are required to be published, or the Clerk’s certificate under seal
where the same are required to be posted only.
   (I)   The Clerk shall receive all objections to creation of paving districts
and other street improvements. He or she shall receive the claims of any person
against the city, and in the event that the claim is disallowed in part or in
whole, the Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or attorney by
letter within five days after the disallowance, and the Clerk shall then
prepare transcripts on appeals of any disallowance of a claim in all proper
cases.
Statutory reference:
   City Clerk duties and powers, see Neb. RS 17-605
   Keeping of public records, see Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09
   Publication of official reports, see Neb. RS 19-1102 and 19-1104
   Records Management Act, see Neb. RS 84-1201 through 84-1227
§ 31.04 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall be the custodian of all money belonging
to the city. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debts and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give
every person paying money into the treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the
date of payment and on what account paid. He or she shall also file copies of
such receipts with his or her monthly reports. The Treasurer shall, at the end
of every month, and as often as may be required, render an account to the City
Council, under oath, showing the state of the treasury at the date of such
account and the balance of money in the treasury. He or she shall also
accompany such accounts with a statement of all receipts and disbursements,
together with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her, which warrants,
with any and all vouchers held by him or her, shall be filed with his or her
account in the City Clerk’s office. If the Treasurer fails to render his or her
account within 20 days after the end of the month, or by a later date
established by the City Council, the Mayor may use this failure as cause to
remove the Treasurer from office.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against
the city, showing the number and amount of each bond, for and to whom the bonds
were issued, and the date upon which any bond is purchased, paid, or canceled.
The Treasurer shall accompany the annual statement submitted pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-1101 with a description of the bonds issued and sold in that year and the
terms of sale, with every item of expense thereof.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall annually complete continuing education through
a program approved by the Auditor of Public Accounts, and proof of completion
of such program shall be submitted to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
(Neb. RS 17-606)
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall prepare and publish annually within 60 days
after the close of the city fiscal year a statement of the receipts and
expenditures of funds of the city for the preceding fiscal year. The statement
shall also include the information required by Neb. RS 16-318(3) or 17-606(2).
Not more than the legal rate provided for in Neb. RS 33-141 shall be charged
and paid for such publication.
(Neb. RS 19-1101)
      (2)   Publication shall be made in one legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city. If no legal newspaper is published in the city, then
such publication shall be made in one legal newspaper published or of general
circulation within the county in which the city is located.
(Neb. RS 19-1103)
   (C)   (1)   All warrants upon the Treasurer shall be paid in the order of
their presentation therefor and as otherwise provided in Neb. RS 77-2201
through 77-2215.
(Neb. RS 77-2201)
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep a warrant register, which register shall
show in columns arranged for that purpose the number, the date, and the amount
of each warrant presented and registered, the particular fund upon which the
same is drawn, the date of presentation, the name and address of the person in
whose name the warrant is registered, the date of payment, the amount of
interest, and the total amount paid thereon, with the date when notice to the
person in whose name such warrant is registered is mailed.
(Neb. RS 77-2202)
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make duplicate receipts for all sums which
shall be paid into his or her office, which receipts shall show the source from
which such funds are derived, and shall, by distinct lines and columns, show
the amount received to the credit of each separate fund, and whether the same
was paid in cash, in warrants, or otherwise. The Treasurer shall deliver one of
the duplicates to the person making the payment and retain the other in his or
her office.
(Neb. RS 77-2209)
      (4)   The Treasurer shall daily, as money is received, foot the several
columns of the cash book and of the register, and carry the amounts forward,
and at the close of each year, in case the amount of money received by the
Treasurer is insufficient to pay the warrants registered, he or she shall close
the account for that year in the register and shall carry forward the excess.
(Neb. RS. 77-2210)
      (5)   The cash book, register, and retained receipts of the Treasurer
shall at all times be open to the inspection of any person in whose name any
warrants are registered and unpaid.
(Neb. RS 77-2212)
   (D)   The Treasurer shall permit any person to examine and copy the public
records in the Treasurer’s custody, and may charge a fee for providing copies
of a public record, as provided in Neb. RS 84-712 through 84-712.09.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his or her own money. He or she shall cancel all bonds, coupons,
warrants, and other evidences of debt against the city, whenever paid by him or
her, by writing or stamping on the face thereof, “Paid by the City Treasurer,”
with the date of payment written or stamped thereon. He or she shall collect
all special taxes, allocate special assessments to the several owners, and
obtain from the County Treasurer a monthly report as to the collection of
delinquent taxes.
§ 31.05 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City Council. He
or she shall commence, prosecute and defend all suits and actions necessary to
be commenced, prosecuted or defended on behalf of the city, or that may be
ordered by the Council. When requested, he or she shall attend meetings of the
Council and give them his or her opinion upon any matters submitted to him or
her, either orally or in writing, as may be required. He or she shall draft or
review for legal correctness ordinances, contracts, franchises and other
instruments as may be required, and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be imposed upon him or her by general law or ordinance. The Council
shall have the right to pay the City Attorney compensation for legal services
performed by him or her for it on such terms as the Council and Attorney may
agree and to employ additional legal assistance and to pay for such legal
assistance out of the funds of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-610)
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also examine, when requested to do so by the
City Council, the ordinance records and advise and assist the City Clerk as
much as may be necessary to the end that each procedural step will be taken in
the passage of each ordinance to ensure that it will be a valid and subsisting
local law insofar as its passage and approval are concerned.
§ 31.06 CITY PHYSICIAN.
   The City Physician shall be a member of the Board of Health of the
municipality and perform the duties devolving upon him or her as the medical
advisor of said Board. In all injuries where a liability may be asserted
against the municipality, the City Physician shall immediately investigate said
injuries, the extent thereof and the circumstances. He or she shall then report
the results of his or her investigation with the name of the party injured and
all other persons who may have personal knowledge of the matter. He or she
shall make all physical examinations and necessary laboratory tests incident
thereto and issue such health certificates as are required by ordinance. For
the purpose of making examinations of the sanitary conditions of the property,
and the state of health of the inhabitants therein, he or she shall have the
right at all reasonable hours to go upon, and enter all premises, buildings or
other structures in the municipality. He or she shall perform such other duties
as may be required of him or her by the laws of the state and the ordinances of
the municipality. When ordered to do so by the governing body, he or she shall
disinfect or fumigate the premises, or persons in or about the premises, when
the premises are quarantined, and to call upon indigent sick persons, and
perform other professional services at the direction of the governing body. The
City Physician shall receive as compensation for his or her services such sum
as the governing body may from time to time set. He or she shall receive no
compensation for his or her services as a member of the Municipal Board of
Health.
(Prior Code, § 1-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-121  
§ 31.07 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   If a Police Chief has been appointed, he or she shall direct the
police work of the city and shall be responsible for the maintenance of law and
order. Unless the Mayor and City Council provide otherwise, he or she shall act
as Health Inspector and Building Inspector.
   (B)   If the city has an agreement with the County Sheriff for law
enforcement purposes, the County Sheriff shall have all the powers and duties
of the Police Chief and city police officers as specified in the agreement.
§ 31.08 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, shall appoint
such a number of regular police officers as may be necessary. All police
officers appointed by the Mayor and Council may be removed, demoted or
suspended at any time by the Mayor as provided in division (A)(2) below. A
police officer, including the Chief of Police, may appeal to the City Council
such removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay. After a hearing, the
City Council may uphold, reverse or modify the action.
      (2)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay of any police
officer, including the Chief of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure
for such removal, demotion or suspension with or without pay of any police
officer, including the Chief of Police, upon the written accusation of the
Police Chief, the Mayor or any citizen or taxpayer. The City Council shall
establish by ordinance procedures for acting upon such written accusation, in
accordance with Neb. RS 17-107. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the peremptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer
by the appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this section,
in cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty or disobedience of orders.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a police officer during his or her
probationary period.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may establish a law enforcement reserve force.
Members of such force shall be appointed at the discretion of the Council. The
Council may limit the size of such reserve force.
      (2)   (a)   A member of a law enforcement reserve force appointed under
this section cannot make arrests, issue citations, detain members of the public
or seize evidence without being under the direct supervision of a physically
present certified law enforcement officer.
         (b)   A reserve officer may perform functions at the direction of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police when under the direct supervision of the
County Sheriff or Chief of Police. Such functions shall not include making
arrests, issuing citations, detaining members of the public or seizing
evidence.
         (c)   A reserve officer is not limited with respect to the amount of
hours worked annually.
(Neb. RS 81-1438)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on law enforcement reserve force, see Neb. RS 81-1439
through 81-1446
§ 31.09 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall be elected by the members of the Fire Department. He or
she shall enforce all laws and ordinances covering the prevention of fires, the
storage and use of explosives and flammable substances, the installation of
fire alarm systems, the maintenance of fire extinguishing equipment, the
regulation of fire escapes and the inspection of all premises requiring
adequate fire escapes.
§ 31.10 WATER COMMISSIONER/PUBLIC WORKS COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as a system of waterworks or mains or portion or
extension of any system of waterworks or water supply has been established by
the city, the Mayor shall nominate and by and with the advice and consent of
the City Council shall appoint any competent person who shall be known as the
Water Commissioner of the city and whose term of office shall be for one fiscal
year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Annually at the
first regular meeting of the City Council in December, the Water Commissioner
shall be appointed as provided in this section.
      (2)   The Water Commissioner may at any time, for sufficient cause, be
removed by a two-thirds vote of the City Council. Any vacancy occurring in the
office of Water Commissioner by death, resignation, removal from office, or
removal from the city may be filled in the manner provided in this section for
the appointment of the Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall, before he or she enters upon the
discharge of his or her duties, execute a bond or provide evidence of
equivalent insurance to the city in a sum to be fixed by the Mayor and Council,
but not less than $5,000, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his or her
duties, and such bond shall be signed by two or more good and sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Mayor and Council or executed by a corporate
surety.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the system of
waterworks or mains or portion or extension of any system of waterworks or
water supply in the city.
      (5)   In a city where no Board of Public Works exists, and the city has
other public utilities than its waterworks system, the Mayor and Council shall
by ordinance designate Water Commissioner as Public Works Commissioner with
authority to manage not only the system of waterworks but also other public
utilities, and all of the provisions of this division (A) applying to the Water
Commissioner shall apply to the Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-541)
   (B)   (1)   The Water Commissioner shall collect all money received by the
city on account of its system of waterworks and shall faithfully account for
and pay over the same to the City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor
in duplicate, filing one of the same with the City Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at
least once every six months, of the condition of the water system, of all
mains, pipes, hydrants, reservoirs, and machinery, and such improvements,
repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The report shall
show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof for the
preceding six months. No money shall be expended for improvements, repairs, or
extension of the waterworks system except upon recommendation of the Water
Commissioner.
      (3)   The Water Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
      (4)   The Water Commissioner shall be paid such salary as the Council may
by ordinance provide, and upon his or her written recommendation, the Mayor and
Council shall employ such laborers and clerks as may to them seem necessary.
      (5)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall be eligible
to the office of Water Commissioner during the term for which he or she was
elected.
      (6)   If the city owns public utilities other than the waterworks system
and the Water Commissioner has been designated by ordinance as the Public Works
Commissioner under the authority of division (A) above, then all provisions of
this division (B) in reference to a Water Commissioner shall apply to the
Public Works Commissioner.
(Neb. RS 17-543)
   (C)   In the event the city shall have created a Board of Public Works as
provided in §
32.06, the Water Commissioner shall, subject to confirmation by the Mayor and
Council, be employed thereafter by the Board at such reasonable compensation as
may be agreed upon at the time of such employment and shall thereafter be under
the jurisdiction of the Board, any of the provisions of Neb. RS 17-501 to 17-
560 to the contrary notwithstanding. Any Water Commissioner under the
jurisdiction and control of the Board of Public Works may be removed by the
Board, after an opportunity to be heard before the Mayor and Council if he or
she shall so request, for malfeasance, misfeasance or neglect in office.
(Neb. RS 17-804)
§ 31.11 SEWER COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Sewer Commissioner, subject to the supervision of the Mayor and
City Council, shall have the general management and control of the sewer system
in the city.
   (B)   He or she shall collect all money received by the city on account of
its sewer system and shall faithfully account for and pay over the same to the
City Treasurer, taking his or her receipt therefor in duplicate, filing one of
the same with the City Clerk.
   (C)   He or she shall make a detailed report to the City Council, at least
once every six months, of the condition of the sewer system and such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper. The
report shall show the amount of receipts and expenditures on account thereof
for the preceding six months.
   (D)   He or she shall issue permits for all connections to the sewer system
and inspect and supervise all repairs made to the system.
   (E)   The Sewer Commissioner shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
§ 31.12 OVERSEER OF STREETS.
   (A)   The Overseer of Streets shall, subject to the order of the Mayor and
Council, have general charge, direction, and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts, and bridges of the city, and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
   (B)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
   (C)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council make a detailed
report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts,
alleys, and bridges of the city and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs, and extension thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (D)   The Overseer of Streets shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.13 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner shall, subject to the order of the Mayor and
Council, have general charge, direction and control of all works on the
streets, sidewalks, culverts and bridges of the city and shall perform such
other duties as the Council may require.
(Neb. RS 17-119)
   (B)   It shall be his or her responsibility to see that gutters and drains
in the city function properly and that they are kept in good repair.
   (C)   He or she shall, at the request of the City Council, make a detailed
report to the Council on the condition of the streets, sidewalks, culverts,
alleys and bridges of the city and shall direct their attention to such
improvements, repairs and extension thereof as he or she may think proper.
   (D)   The Street Commissioner shall issue such permits and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Incentive payments to street superintendents, see Neb. RS 39-2512
§ 31.14 CITY ENGINEER; SPECIAL ENGINEER.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall, when requested by the Mayor or City
Council, make estimates of the cost of labor and material which may be done or
furnished by contract with the city and make all surveys, estimates, and
calculations necessary to be made for the establishment of grades, building of
culverts, sewers, electric light system, waterworks, power plant, public
heating system, bridges, curbing, and gutters, the improvement of streets, and
the erection and repair of buildings and shall perform such other duties as the
City Council may require.
      (2)   When the city has appointed a Board of Public Works and the Mayor
and City Council have by ordinance so authorized, the Board may utilize its own
engineering staff and may hire consulting engineers for the design and
installation of extensions and improvements of the works under the jurisdiction
of the Board.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (B)   The Mayor and City Council may employ a special engineer to make, or
assist in making, any estimate necessary or to perform any other duty provided
for in Neb. RS 17-568.01. Any work executed by such special engineer shall have
the same validity and serve in all respects as though executed by the City
Engineer.
(Neb. RS 17-568)   
   (C)   The City Engineer shall make a record of the minutes of his or her
surveys and of all work done for the city and, when directed by the Mayor and
City Council, shall accurately make such plats, sections, profiles, and maps as
may be necessary in the prosecution of any public work, which shall be public
records and belong to the city and be turned over to his or her successor.
Statutory reference:
   Duties related to areas to be annexed, see Neb. RS 18-3301
   Duties related to sewerage systems, see Neb. RS 17-150 and 17-919
§ 31.15 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Building Inspector shall conduct surveys and make inspections
in any area of the municipality to determine whether all buildings and
structures are in compliance with the municipal ordinances. He or she shall
investigate all complaints whether they are verbal, written or in the form of a
petition alleging, charging that a violation of the municipal ordinances exists
and that a building or structure is unfit or unsafe for human habitation. The
Building Inspector is authorized, upon properly identifying himself or herself,
to enter, inspect, survey and investigate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:
00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists, or if requested by the owner or
occupant thereof. He or she shall keep records of all complaints received,
inspection reports, orders and complaints issued. The records shall be
available for public inspection, and he or she shall prepare an annual report
including statistics based on the records kept. The Building Inspector shall
have no financial interest in the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances
for the construction, alteration or maintenance of a building, except where he
or she is the owner of a building, and he or she shall not act as an agent for
any said dealer, or as an agent for the sale, lease or rental of any real
estate. The Building Inspector shall report to the governing body as often as
it may deem necessary and shall have such other duties and issue such permits
as it may direct. The Building Inspector may be removed at any time for good
and sufficient cause by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 1-215)
§ 31.16 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Electrical Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of electrical wiring and connections thereto. When acting in good
faith and without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she
shall not himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may
accrue to persons or property as the result of any act required by him or her,
or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He
or she shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties and, upon proper
identification, have authority to enter into any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties and
issue any permits that the governing body may direct. The Electrical Inspector
may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the governing body.
In the absence of a specific appointment by the governing body, the Building
Inspector shall be the Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 1-216)
§ 31.17 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   The Municipal Plumbing Inspector shall enforce all laws relating to the
installation of plumbing and connections thereto. When acting in good faith and
without malice in the scope of his or her official duties, he or she shall not
himself or herself be held personally liable for any damage that may accrue to
persons or property as the result of any act required by him or her or by
reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his or her duties. He or she
shall, in the discharge of his or her official duties and, upon proper
identification, have authority to enter into any building, structure or
premises at any reasonable hour. He or she shall perform such other duties and
issue any permits that the governing body may direct. The Plumbing Inspector
may be removed at any time for good and sufficient cause by the governing body.
In the absence of a specific appointment by the governing body, the Building
Inspector shall be the Plumbing Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 1-217)
§ 31.18 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Zoning Inspector. In the absence of a specific
appointment by the Mayor, the Utilities Superintendent is hereby designated as
Zoning Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 1-218)
§ 31.19 CITY OFFICE AND PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Office and Programs Administrator shall be responsible for
planning, directing, managing and reviewing all activities and operations of
the city as set forth in the job description as adopted, and amended as
necessary, by the City Council and Mayor.
   (B)   The City Office and Programs Administrator’s duties shall include, but
not be limited to:
      (1)   Identification, documentation and initial contact(s) with
individuals in violation of the municipality’s nuisance properties ordinances;
      (2)   Code enforcement;
      (3)   Project Development Director for projects for the betterment of the
municipality;
      (4)   Grant research and development writer for local, state and federal
grants for the benefit of the municipality;
      (5)   Office management, human resources and city offices liaison to the
Mayor, City Council and City Attorney; and
      (6)   Such other and further job duties and responsibilities as may be
assigned and developed by the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-219) (Ord. 965, passed 10- -2022)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Boards and Commissions
   
32.01   Library Board
   
32.02   Planning Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Board of Health
   
32.05   Nursing Home Board
   
32.06   Housing Authority Board
   
32.07   Airport Authority Board
   
32.08   Community Development Agency
   
32.09   Board of Park Commissioners
   
32.10   Board of Public Works
Fire Department
   
32.20   Operation and funding
   
32.21   Fire Chief
   
32.22   Membership
   
32.23   Fires
   
32.24   Distant fires
   
32.25   Inspections
   
32.26   Notice of violation
   
32.27   Power of arrest
   
32.28   Fire investigation
   
32.29   Hose tested
   
32.30   Drills
Ambulance Department
   
32.45   City rescue squad established
   
32.46   Organization; meetings; officers
   
32.47   Officers; duties and powers
   
32.48   Records
   
32.49   Ambulance service rate schedule
   
32.50   Drivers and attendants; salaries
   
32.51   Billing
Police Department
   
32.65   Duties
   
32.66   Reserve officer bond
   
32.67   Arrest and enforcement jurisdiction
   
32.68   Officers; discipline or removal from duty
 
   
32.99   Penalty
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
§ 32.01 LIBRARY BOARD.
   (A)   When the City Council has decided by ordinance to establish and
maintain a public library and reading room under Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219,
and except as otherwise provided by the Council pursuant to Neb. RS 51-202, the
Library Board shall have five appointed members, who shall be residents of the
city and who shall serve terms of four years. The Board members shall be
appointed by a majority vote of the members of the City Council. Neither the
Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall be a member of the Library
Board. The terms of members serving on the effective date of a change in the
number of members shall not be shortened, and any successors to those members
shall be appointed as the terms of those members expire. In cases of vacancies
by resignation, removal, or otherwise, the City Council shall fill the vacancy
for the unexpired term. No member shall receive any pay or compensation for any
services rendered as a member of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-202)
   (B)   (1)   The members of the Library Board shall immediately after their
appointment meet and organize by electing from their number a president, a
secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary. A majority of the
members of the Library Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Neb. RS 51-204)
      (2)   No member of the Board shall serve in the capacity of both the
President and Secretary of the Board. It shall be the duty of the Secretary to
keep the full and correct minutes and records of all meetings and to file the
same with the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection at
any reasonable time.
      (3)   The Board shall meet at such times as the Board may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the President or a majority of
the members of the Board.
§ 32.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant
to Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., the Planning Commission shall consist of five,
seven, or nine regular members, as specified by the City Council by ordinance,
who shall represent, insofar as is possible, the different professions or
occupations in the city and shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
approval of a majority vote of the members elected to the City Council. Two of
the regular members may be residents of the area over which the city is
authorized to exercise extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation. When
there are 500 residents in the area over which the city exercises
extraterritorial zoning and subdivision regulation, one regular member of the
Commission shall be a resident from such area. If it is determined by the City
Council that 500 residents reside in the area subject to extraterritorial
zoning or subdivision regulation and no such resident is a regular member of
the Commission, the first available vacancy on the Commission shall be filled
by the appointment of such an individual. A number of Commissioners equal to a
majority of the number of regular members appointed to the Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. All regular members of
the Commission shall serve without compensation. The term of each regular
member shall be three years, except that one-third or fewer of the regular
members of the first Commission to be so appointed shall serve for terms of one
year, one-third or fewer for terms of two years, and the remaining members for
terms of three years. All regular members shall hold office until their
successors are appointed. Any member may, after a public hearing before the
Council, be removed by the Mayor, with the consent of a majority vote of the
members elected to the Council, for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office or other good and sufficient cause. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Mayor may, with the approval of a majority vote of the elected
members of the Council, appoint one alternate member to the Planning
Commission. The alternate member shall serve without compensation. The term of
the alternate member shall be three years, and he or she shall hold office
until his or her successor is appointed and approved. The alternate member may
be removed from office in the same manner as a regular member. If the alternate
member position becomes vacant other than through the expiration of the term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Mayor
with the approval of a majority vote of the elected members of the Council. The
alternate member may attend any meeting and may serve as a voting and
participating member of the Commission at any time when less than the full
number of regular Commission members is present and capable of voting.
      (3)   A regular or alternate member of the Planning Commission may hold
any other municipal office except:
         (a)   Mayor;
         (b)   A member of the City Council;
         (c)   A member of any community redevelopment authority or limited
community redevelopment authority created under Neb. RS 18-2102.01; or
         (d) A member of any citizen advisory review committee created under
Neb. RS 18-2715.
(Neb. RS 19-926)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson from its members and create
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of the
Chairperson shall be one year, and he or she shall be eligible for reelection.
The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each calendar
quarter, except as provided in this section. The City Council may require the
Commission to meet more frequently, and the Chairperson of the Commission may
call for a meeting when necessary to deal with business pending before the
Commission. If no business is pending before the Commission, the Chairperson
may cancel a quarterly meeting, but not more than three quarterly meetings may
be cancelled per calendar year. The Commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which shall be a
public record.
(Neb. RS 19-927)
   (C)   No member of the Commission shall serve in the capacity of both the
Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The City Council may provide the funds, equipment, and accommodations
necessary for the work of the Commission, but the expenditures of the
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Council, and no expenditures nor agreements for
expenditures shall be valid in excess of such amounts.
(Neb. RS 19-928)
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-930 through 19-933, the
Planning Commission shall:
            1.   Make and adopt plans for the physical development of the city,
including any areas outside its boundaries which, in the Commission’s judgment,
bear relation to the planning of such city, and including a comprehensive
development plan as defined by Neb. RS 19-903;
            2.   Prepare and adopt such implemental means as a capital
improvement program, subdivision regulations, building codes, and a zoning
ordinance in cooperation with other interested city departments; and
            3.   Consult with and advise public officials and agencies, public
utilities, civic organizations, educational institutions, and citizens with
relation to the promulgation and implementation of the Comprehensive
Development Plan and its implemental programs. The Commission may delegate
authority to any such group to conduct studies and make surveys for the
Commission, make preliminary reports on its findings, and hold public hearings
before submitting its final reports.
         (b)   The City Council shall not take final action on matters relating
to the Comprehensive Development Plan, capital improvements, building codes,
subdivision development, the annexation of territory, or zoning until it has
received the recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation so that it is received by the
City Council within 60 days after the Commission begins consideration of a
matter, or within such other number of days as the City Council has set by
ordinance.
         (c)   A recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not be
required for the subdivision of existing lots and blocks whenever all required
public improvements have been installed, no new dedication of public rights-of-
way or easements is involved, and such subdivision complies with the ordinance
requirements concerning minimum areas and dimensions of such lots and blocks if
the City Council has designated, by ordinance, an agent pursuant to Neb. RS 19-
916.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission may, with the consent of the City Council, in
its own name;
            1.   Make and enter into contracts with public or private bodies;
            2.   Receive contributions, bequests, gifts, or grant funds from
public/private sources;
            3.   Expend the funds appropriated to it by the city;
            4.   Employ agents and employees; and
            5.   Acquire, hold, and dispose of property.
         (b)   The Commission may on its own authority make arrangements
consistent with its program, conduct or sponsor special studies or planning
work for any public body or appropriate agency, receive grants, remuneration,
or reimbursement for such studies or work, and at its public hearings, summon
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the giving of testimony.
      (3)   (a)   The Commission may grant conditional uses or special
exceptions to property owners for the use of their property if the City Council
has, through a zoning ordinance or special ordinance, generally authorized the
Commission to exercise such powers and has approved the standards and
procedures adopted by the Commission for equitably and judiciously granting
such conditional uses or special exceptions. The granting of a conditional use
permit or special exception shall only allow property owners to put their
property to a special use if it is among those uses specifically identified in
the zoning ordinance as classifications of uses which may require special
conditions or requirements to be met by the owners before a use permit or
building permit is authorized.
         (b)   The power to grant conditional uses or special exceptions shall
be the exclusive authority of the Commission, except that the City Council may
choose to retain for itself the power to grant conditional uses or special
exceptions for those classifications of uses specified in the zoning ordinance.
The Council may exercise such power if it has formally adopted standards and
procedures for granting such conditional uses or special exceptions in a manner
that is equitable and will promote the public interest.
         (c)   An appeal of a decision by the Commission or Council regarding a
conditional use or special exception shall be made to the District Court.
(Neb. RS 19-929)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on planning commissions, see Neb. RS 19-925 through 19-933
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   If the City Council adopts zoning or other regulations pursuant to
Neb. RS 19-901 et seq., except as provided in division (B) below, the Council
shall provide for the appointment of a Board of Adjustment. Any actions taken
by the Board of Adjustment shall not exceed the powers granted by division (F)
below.
(Neb. RS 19-907)
   (B)   If the county has adopted a comprehensive development plan, as defined
by Neb. RS 23-114.02, and is enforcing zoning regulations based upon such a
plan, the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the county shall, upon request of the
City Council, serve as the Zoning Board of Adjustment for the city. If the city
is located in more than one county, it shall be served, by request or
otherwise, only by the county zoning board of adjustment of the county in which
the greatest area of the city is located, and the jurisdiction of such county
zoning board of adjustment shall include all portions of the city and its
extraterritorial control, regardless of county lines.
(Neb. RS 19-912.01)
 
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five regular members,
plus one additional member designated as an alternate who shall attend and
serve only when one of the regular members is unable to attend for any reason,
each to be appointed for a term of three years and removable for cause by the
appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearing. Vacancies
shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
One member only of the Board of Adjustment shall be appointed from the
membership of the Planning Commission, and the loss of membership on the
Planning Commission by such member shall also result in his or her immediate
loss of membership on the Board of Adjustment and the appointment of another
Planning Commissioner to the Board of Adjustment. The first vacancy occurring
on the Board of Adjustment shall be filled by the appointment of a person who
resides in the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city at such time as
more than 200 persons reside within such area if the Board does not already
include such a person. Thereafter, at all times, at least one member of the
Board of Adjustment shall reside outside of the corporate boundaries of the
city but within its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules in accordance with the
provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-914.
Meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such
Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
(Neb. RS 19-908)
   (D)   A number of members equal to a majority of the number of regular
members appointed to the Board of Adjustment shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business. All members of an appointed Board of Adjustment
shall serve without compensation and shall hold no other city office, except
for the member of the Planning Commission appointed to serve on the Board of
Adjustment. No member of the Board of Adjustment shall serve in the capacity of
both Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Secretary shall keep the full
and correct minutes and records of all meetings and file them with the City
Clerk, where they shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (E)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected
by any decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within a reasonable time, as provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with
the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of Adjustment a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Adjustment,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such cases, proceedings shall not
be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the
Board of Adjustment or by a court of record on application of notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of
Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give
public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
(Neb. RS 19-909)
   (F)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall, subject to such appropriate
conditions and safeguards as may be established by the City Council, have only
the following powers:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged that there is
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official or agency based on or made in the enforcement of any
zoning regulation or any regulation relating to the location or soundness of
structures, except that the authority to hear and to decide appeals shall not
apply to decisions made by the City Council or Planning Commission regarding a
conditional use or special exception under Neb. RS 19-929(3);
         (b)   To hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of any
zoning regulation, requests for interpretation of any map; and
         (c)   When, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape
of a specific piece of property at the time of the enactment of the zoning
regulations, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of such piece of property,
the strict application of any enacted regulation under Neb. RS 19-901 and 19-
903 through 19-904.01 and division (C) above and this division (F) would result
in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties to or exceptional and undue
hardships upon the owner of such property, to authorize, upon an appeal
relating to the property, a variance from such strict application so as to
relieve such difficulties or hardship, if such relief may be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the intent and purpose of any ordinance or resolution.
      (2)   (a)   No such variance shall be authorized by the Board unless it
finds that:
            1.   The strict application of the zoning regulation would produce
undue hardship;
            2.   Such hardship is not shared generally by other properties in
the same zoning district and the same vicinity;
            3.   The authorization of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property and the character of the district will not be
changed by the granting of the variance; and
            4.   The granting of such variance is based upon reason of
demonstrable and exceptional hardship as distinguished from variations for
purposes of convenience, profit, or caprice.
         (b)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board finds that the
condition or situation of the property concerned or the intended use of the
property is not of so general or recurring a nature as to make reasonably
practicable the formulation of a general regulation to be adopted as an
amendment to the zoning regulations.
      (3)   In exercising the powers granted in this division (F), the Board
may, in conformity with Neb. RS 19-901 to 19-915, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination
appealed from, and may make such order, requirement, decision, or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of any such administrative official or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under any such
regulation or to effect any variation in such regulation.
(Neb. RS 19-910)
   (G)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board of Adjustment, or any taxpayer, or any officer, department, board,
or bureau of the city, may present to the District Court a petition duly
verified setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of such illegality. Such petition must be presented to
the Court within 15 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board. Upon the filing of such petition, a summons shall be issued and be
served upon the Board of Adjustment, together with a copy of the petition.
Return of service shall be made within four days after the issuance of the
summons. Within ten days after the return day of such summons, the Board of
Adjustment shall file an answer to the petition which shall admit or deny the
substantial averments of the petition and shall state the contentions of the
Board with reference to the matters in dispute as disclosed by the petition.
The answer shall be verified in like manner as required for the petition. At
the expiration of the time for filing the answer, the Court shall proceed to
hear and determine the cause without delay and shall render judgment thereon
according to the forms of law. If, upon the hearing, it appears to the Court
that testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, it may
take evidence or appoint a referee to take such evidence as it may direct and
report the same to the Court with his or her findings of fact and conclusions
of law, which shall constitute a part of the proceedings upon which the
determination of the Court shall be made. The Court may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision brought up for review. The appeal
to the District Court shall not stay proceedings upon the decision appealed
from, but the Court may, on application, on notice to the Board, and on due
cause shown, grant a restraining order. Any appeal from such judgment of the
District Court shall be prosecuted in accordance with the general laws of the
state regulating appeals in actions at law.
(Neb. RS 19-912)
§ 32.04 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall consist of four members: the Mayor,
who shall be Chairperson, the President of the City Council, and two other
members. One member shall be a physician or health care provider, if one can be
found who is willing to serve. Such physician or health care provider, if
appointed, shall be the Board’s medical advisor. If the Mayor has appointed a
Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall serve on the Board as Secretary and
Quarantine Officer.
      (2)   A majority of the Board of Health shall constitute a quorum and
shall enact rules and regulations, which shall have the full force and effect
of law, to safeguard the health of the people of the city, may enforce them,
and may provide fines and punishments for the violation of such rules and
regulations. The Board shall have the power to and shall make all needful rules
and regulations relating to matters of the sanitation of the city, including
the removal of dead animals, the sanitary condition of the streets, alleys,
vacant grounds, stockyards, cattle and hog pens, wells, cisterns, privies,
waterclosets, cesspools, stables, and all buildings and places not specified
where filth, nuisances, or offensive matter is kept or is liable to or does
accumulate. It may regulate, suppress, and prevent the occurrence of nuisances
and enforce all laws of the state and ordinances of the city relating to
nuisances or to matters of sanitation of the city. The Board shall also have
control of hospitals, dispensaries, places for treatment of the sick, and
matters relating to the same under such restrictions and provisions as may be
provided by ordinance of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-121)
   (B)   The members of the Board of Health other than the Mayor, President of
the Council, and Chief of Police shall serve terms of office of the length
specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board of Health shall reorganize at its meeting after appointments
are regularly considered by the City Council and, if necessary, select a member
to serve as secretary. No member of the Board of Health shall hold more than
one Board of Health position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes
and records of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk, where they
shall be available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board of Health.
   (E)   The members of the Board of Health shall serve without compensation.
The Board of Health shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out
of the General Fund.
   (F)   The Board of Health shall regularly inspect such premises and
businesses as the City Council may direct.
   (G)   All members of the Board of Health shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from
time to time, designate.
§ 32.05 NURSING HOME BOARD.
   The governing body shall appoint the Nursing Home Board. The Board shall
consist of five members who shall be residents of the municipality. Beginning
September 1, 1989, the members of the Board, as determined by the governing
body, shall serve initial terms of office of one, two, three, four and five
years, and their successors shall serve terms of office of five years. The
Board shall serve without compensation and may be required, in the discretion
of the governing body, to give a bond in a sum set by resolution of the
governing body and conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
At the time of the Board’s first meeting in December of each year, the Board
shall organize by selecting from its membership a Chairperson and secretary. It
shall be the duty of the secretary to keep the full and correct minutes and
records of all meetings, to file the same with the Municipal Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable time and to publish
said minutes within 30 days from any meetings of said Board, which publication
shall set forth a statement of the proceedings thereof, in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city. A majority of the Board members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet at
such times as the governing body may designate. Special meetings may be held
upon the call of the Chairperson or any three members of the Board. It shall be
the duty of the Board to have general charge of the Municipal Nursing Home and
establish appropriate rules and regulations for the management, operation and
use of the same. All actions of the Board shall be subject to the review and
supervision of the governing body. The Board shall be responsible for making
such reports and performing such additional duties as the governing body may,
from time to time, designate. No member of the governing body shall serve as a
member of the Nursing Home Board while serving a term of office as a member of
the governing body. No member of the Nursing Home Board shall serve in the
capacity of both the Chairperson and secretary of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 529, passed 1-5-1988; Ord. 553, passed 2-7-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-966
§ 32.06 HOUSING AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   Established.
      (1)   (a)   The governing body shall appoint five persons who shall
constitute the Housing Authority and such persons shall be called the
Commissioners. One Commissioner shall be appointed each year. Each Commissioner
shall serve a five-year term of office or until his or her successor is duly
appointed; provided, that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
terms.
         (b)   The governing body may appoint one of its members to serve as
one of the five members of such Housing Authority for such term as the
governing body may determine. No person shall serve as a Commissioner unless he
or she resides within the area of operation of that Housing Authority. A
certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any Commissioner shall be
filed with the Municipal Clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive
evidence of the proper appointment of such Commissioner. A Commissioner shall
receive no compensation for his or her services, but he or she shall be
entitled to the necessary expenses, including travel expenses, incurred in
discharge of his or her duties. A majority of Commissioners shall constitute a
quorum of the Authority for the purpose of conducting its business, exercising
its powers and for all other purposes. Action may be taken by the Authority
upon the vote of the majority of the Commissioners present unless in any case
the bylaws of the Authority shall require a larger number.
         (c)   The Commissioners shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
from among the Commissioners and shall have the power to employ an executive
director who shall serve as ex officio secretary of the Authority. The
Authority may also employ legal counsel, or it may call upon the chief law
officer of the municipality, for such services as it may require. It may employ
technical experts and such other officers, agents and employees as it may
require and shall determine their qualifications, duties, compensations and
terms of office. The Authority may delegate such other powers and duties to its
agents or employees as it may deem proper. During his or her tenure, and for
one year thereafter, no Commissioner, officer or employee of the Municipal
Housing Authority shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect,
in any project or in any property included or planned to be included in any
project, or in any contract or proposed contract relating to any housing
project. If any such Commissioner, officer or employee involuntarily acquires
any such interest, or voluntarily or involuntarily acquired any such interest
prior to appointment or employment as Commissioner, officer or employee, he or
she shall immediately disclose his or her interest in writing to the Authority,
and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the Authority, and he
or she shall not participate in any action by the Authority relating to the
property or contract in which he or she has any such interest; provided, that
nothing herein shall apply to the acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds
of the Authority issued in connection with any housing project, or to the
execution of agreements by banking institutions for deposit or handling of
funds in connection with a project or to act as trustee under any trust
indenture, or to utility services, the rates for which are fixed or controlled
by a governmental agency.
         (d)   The Mayor may remove a Commissioner for neglect of duty or
misconduct in office in the manner prescribed hereinafter. The Mayor shall send
a notice of removal to such Commissioner which notice shall contain a statement
containing the charges against him or her. Unless, within ten days from the
receipt of such notice, such Commissioner files with the Clerk a request for a
hearing before the governing body, the Commissioner shall be deemed as removed
from office. If a request for a hearing is filed with the Clerk, the governing
body of the municipality shall hold a hearing at which the Commissioner shall
have the right to appear in person or by counsel and the governing body shall
determine whether the removal shall be disapproved or upheld. If the removal is
disapproved, the Commissioner shall continue to hold his or her position.
      (2)   The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all its
activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make a report to
the governing body on all such information.
(Prior Code, § 2-206)
   (B)   Operation and management.
      (1)   The Authority shall at all times observe the following duties with
respect to rentals and tenant selection.
         (a)   It may rent or lease dwelling accommodations therein only to
persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low income and
displaced persons in need.
         (b)   There shall be no discrimination in the eligibility or occupancy
of tenants on the basis of race, sex, marital status, religion, color, creed,
national origin or ancestry.
         (c)   The Authority shall not accept any person as a tenant in any
dwelling in the housing project if the persons who occupy the dwelling have an
aggregate annual income which equals or exceeds the amount which the Authority
has conclusively determined to be sufficient to enable one to secure, safe,
sanitary and uncongested dwelling accommodations within the area served by the
Authority and to provide an adequate standard of living.
         (d)   The Authority may rent or lease to a tenant a dwelling
consisting of a number of rooms which is deemed necessary to provide safe and
sanitary accommodations to the occupants without overcrowding.
         (e)   The Authority shall fix income limits for occupancy and rents
after taking into consideration:
            1.   The family size, composition, age, physical handicaps and
other factors which might affect the rent-paying ability of the person; and
            2.   The economic factors which affect the financial stability and
solvency of the project.
         (f)   The Authority may accept as a tenant any displaced person or
persons in need, regardless of income, but in no event shall such person or
persons remain as a tenant or tenants of the Authority for more than a period
of six months unless such persons also qualify as persons of low income,
elderly or handicapped persons of low income.
         (g)   All persons of low income, elderly or handicapped persons of low
income, or displaced persons in need, shall be entitled to the benefits of this
section and the Authority may establish rules and regulations consistent with
the purposes of this section concerning eligibility and occupancy of the
housing project or other such shelter.
         (h)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the right of the Authority to
inquire into the financial condition, family composition, medical, personal and
employment history of any tenant or prospective tenant.
         (i)   The Authority shall prohibit subletting by tenants.
      (2)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with federal and state laws and regulations and the purposes of this
section concerning the termination of tenancy. Any tenant so terminated shall
be sent a written notice of termination setting out the reasons for such
termination and any tenant served with a notice shall be given the opportunity
to contest the termination in an appropriate hearing, except that tenants who
have created or maintained a threat constituting a serious and clear danger to
the health or safety of other tenants or Authority employees need not be given
such a hearing by the Authority. Such notice may provide that if the tenant
fails to pay his or her rent or comply with any covenant or condition of his or
her lease, or the rules and regulations of such Authority, or cure a violation
or default thereof, as the case may be, as specified in such notice, or follow
the procedure for a hearing as set forth in the notice, all within the time or
times set forth in such notice, the tenancy shall then be automatically
terminated, and no other notice or notices need be given of such termination or
the intent to terminate the tenancy, and upon such termination, and without any
notice other than as provided for in this section, the Authority may file suit
against any tenant for recovery of possession of the premises and may recover
the same as provided by law.
      (3)   The Authority may establish from time to time rules and regulations
consistent with the purposes of this section concerning personal property of
tenants and other persons located in projects of the Authority, and if such
personal property is not removed from a dwelling unit at the time of the
termination of the lease, at the time of vacation or abandonment of the
dwelling unit or at the time of the death of any tenant, then the Authority may
remove the same and store such property at the tenant’s risk and expense. In
the event that possession of such personal property is not taken by the tenant
or other person authorized by law to take possession within 45 days after such
termination, vacation or abandonment, and any storage removal charges remain
unpaid, then the Authority may, at its option, dispose of the personal property
in any manner which the Authority deems fit, except that any proceeds from the
disposal of such personal property shall be paid to the General Fund of the
body which created the Authority. No tenant or other person shall have any
cause of action against the Authority for such removal or disposition of such
personal property.
(Prior Code, § 2-207)
   (C)   Rules and regulations. The Housing Authority may establish from time
to time rules and regulations consistent with the purposes of this section
concerning the priority of eligible applicants for occupancy. The Authority may
give preferential treatment to applicants who are service members or veterans,
relatives of service members or veterans, to disabled service members or
veterans, the elderly or disabled, those in urgent need of adequate housing or
who have no adequate source of income; provided, that in any such system of
priority, displaced persons in need shall have a priority ahead of all other
persons; and provided further, that no tenant in good standing then in
occupancy and qualified for continued occupancy shall have his or her tenancy
terminated in order to provide dwelling units for classes or categories of
applicants as the Authority may establish.
(Prior Code, § 2-208)
   (D)   Reports. The Housing Authority shall keep an accurate account of all
its activities and of all its receipts and disbursements and shall make an
annual report at the second regular meeting in January of each year to the
governing body. Such report shall include all mortgages and other interests in
real property held by the Housing Authority, including options to purchase and
land sale contracts; a listing of all bond issues and their essential terms and
obligations; and all other financial obligations of the Housing Authority over
$50,000. Such reports shall be considered public records. If there has been no
change from the last report in the status of any of the items reported pursuant
to this section, the Housing Authority may file a statement to that effect in
lieu of the report.
(Prior Code, § 2-209)
   (E)   Using authority; ownership. The Municipal Housing Authority is owned
by the municipality and operated through the Housing Authority Commission. The
Housing Authority shall constitute a body corporate and politic and shall have
all the powers necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes
and provisions of the State Housing Authority Law.
(Prior Code, § 2-210)
   (F)   Definitions. Except as otherwise specifically provided, the
definitions and terms set out in the state statutes relating to Housing
Authorities under the State Housing Authority Law are hereby adopted by
reference as they now exist or may hereafter be amended.
(Prior Code, § 2-211)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-1522, 71-1524 through 71-1526, 71-1529,
71-1536 and 71-1547
§ 32.07 AIRPORT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The Airport Authority of the city is hereby created and shall be
managed and controlled by the Airport Authority Board of said city, also hereby
created, which Airport Authority Board, if and when appointed, shall have the
full and exclusive jurisdiction and control over all facilities owned or
hereafter acquired by said city for the purpose of aviation operation, air
navigation and air safety operation. This ordinance shall not become operative
unless the Mayor and City Council of said city in their discretion shall
activate the airport authority by the Mayor appointing and the City Council
approving the members of the Airport Authority Board as provided in this
section.
   (B)   The Airport Authority Board shall consist of five members to be
selected as follows: the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall
appoint one member who shall serve until his or her successor, elected at the
first general city election following such appointment, shall qualify and take
office; the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint two
members who shall serve until their successors, elected at the second general
city election following such appointment, shall qualify and take office; and
two members who shall serve until their successors, elected at the third
general city election following such appointment, shall qualify and take
office; and upon the expiration of all the terms of such appointed officers,
members of said Airport Authority Board shall be nominated and elected in the
manner provided by law for the election of officers of said city and shall take
office at the same time as the officers of said city.
   (C)   Members of said Airport Authority Board shall be residents of said
city and, except for members initially appointed, shall serve for terms of six
years. Any vacancy on said Airport Authority Board shall be filled by temporary
appointment by the Mayor until a successor can be elected, at the next general
city election, to serve the unexpired portion, if any, of the term. A member of
said Airport Authority Board may be removed from office for incompetence,
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office. An action for the removal of such
officer may be brought, upon resolution of the City Council, in the County
District Court.
   (D)   The Airport Authority Board shall have such other powers and duties as
may be prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-212) (Ord. 538, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 3-501 through 3-514
§ 32.08 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   There shall be and there is hereby created in and for the city an
agency to be known as the Community Development Agency of the city, which shall
consist of the members of the City Council which serves as the governing body
of the city.
   (B)   The Community Development Agency shall exercise all power and
authority granted to a community redevelopment authority provided by the State
Community Development Law codified at Neb. RS 18-2101 through 18-2144 and 18-
2147 through 18-2153, inclusive, as amended, and all subsequent amendments
thereto.
   (C)   The Community Development Agency hereby created shall function in the
same manner as the City Council and shall exercise such powers as are set forth
in the State Community Development Law and as referenced in the above-described
statutes and in the manner as shall be deemed appropriate from time to time by
the members of the City Council as the governing body of the city and as
determined by resolution or ordinance duly adopted by said governing body from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2-213) (Ord. 926, passed 5-9-2017)
§ 32.09 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the creation of a
Board of Park Commissioners or Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners
pursuant to Neb. RS 17-952, the Board shall be composed of not less than three
members, who shall be residents of the city and who shall have charge of all
parks and recreational facilities belonging to the city, and shall have the
power to establish rules for the management, care, and use of the same.
(Neb. RS 17-952)
   (B)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council shall serve as a
member of the Board while serving a term of office as Mayor or member of the
City Council. The members of the Board shall serve terms of office of the
length specified by the City Council and may be reappointed.
   (C)   The Board shall organize at its meeting after appointments are
regularly considered by the City Council and select members to serve as
chairperson and secretary. No member of the Board shall hold more than one
Board position. The Secretary shall keep full and correct minutes and records
of all meetings and file the same with the City Clerk, where they shall be
available for public inspection during office hours.
   (D)   The Board shall meet at such times as the City Council may designate.
Special meetings may be held upon the call of the Chairperson or any two
members of the Board. A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (E)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation. The Board
shall be funded by the City Council from time to time out of the General Fund.
   (F)   All members of the Board shall be responsible for making such reports
and performing such other duties as the City Council may, from time to time,
designate.
§ 32.10 BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Whenever the city has or is about to establish or acquire any system
of waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system and the City Council has created a Board of
Public Works, the Board shall consist of not less than three nor more than six
members, residents of the city, to be appointed by the Mayor subject to the
approval of the City Council. The members may be removed by the Mayor and a
majority of the members elected to the City Council at any time. The term of
the first members of the Board shall be one, two, three, or four years in the
manner designated by the Mayor, as the case may be, after which the term of
each member shall be four years, and the terms of not more than two members
shall expire at any one time.
(Neb. RS 17-801)
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall have the active direction and
supervision of any or all of the utility systems owned or operated by the city
as conferred on it by the City Council. The City Council shall approve the
budget of each proprietary function as provided in the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act. The Board shall have the power to operate any utility referred to
it and to exercise all powers conferred by law upon the city for the operation
and government of such utility to the same extent, in the same manner, and
under the same restrictions as the City Council could do if no such Board of
Public Works existed, except that the Board of Public Works shall not make any
expenditure or contract any indebtedness, other than for ordinary running
expenses, exceeding the amount established by the City Council without first
obtaining the approval of the City Council. The Board of Public Works shall
report to the City Council at regular intervals as it may require.
(Neb. RS 17-802)
   (C)   If so authorized and empowered by the Mayor and Council, the Board of
Public Works may cooperate and participate in a plan of insurance designed and
intended for the benefit of the employees of any public utility operated by the
city. For that purpose the Board of Public Works may make contributions to pay
premiums or dues under such plan, authorize deductions from the salaries of
employees, and take such other steps as may be necessary to effectuate such
plan of insurance.
(Neb. RS 17-802.01)
   (D)   The members of the Board of Public Works shall organize as soon as
practicable after their appointment by electing a chairperson and secretary,
who shall serve until the first meeting in June next following; and thereafter,
the Board shall elect a chairperson and secretary at the first meeting in June
each year. In the absence of the regular officers, temporary officers to serve
in their places may be chosen by the members present at any meeting. They shall
establish regular times for meeting and may adopt such rules as may be
necessary or desirable for the conduct of their business. They shall keep a
record of their proceedings, and if there is a legal newspaper published in or
of general circulation in the city, shall publish therein the minutes of each
meeting within 30 days after it is held.
(Neb. RS 17-805)
   (E)   Each of the members of the Board of Public Works shall take an oath to
discharge faithfully the duties of the office before entering upon the
discharge thereof. Each of the members of the Board before entering upon the
duties of the office shall be required to give bond to the city with corporate
surety. Such bond shall be in the sum of $5,000 and shall be conditioned for
the faithful performance of the duties of member of the Board of Public Works,
and the surety on such bond shall be approved by the Mayor and Council and
shall be filed with the City Treasurer, provided that the premium on the bond
shall be paid out of any public utility fund designated by the Mayor and
Council.
(Neb. RS 17-806)
   (F)   No member of the Board of Public Works shall ever be financially
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract entered into by them on
behalf of such city for more than $10,000 in one year.
(Neb. RS 17-807)
   (G)   If the Board determines that the best interests of the city and the
patrons of the utility will be better or more economically served, they may
employ the duly elected City Clerk as ex officio bookkeeper and collector for
the utility or utilities, and he or she may be paid a reasonable salary for the
extra services required of him or her in such position in addition to his or
her salary as City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-808)
   (H)   Rates or charges for service may be fixed or changed by resolution
duly adopted by the Board of Public Works.
(Neb. RS 17-810)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The city may operate a Fire Department through the Fire Chief and
firefighters.
   (B)   The city shall have the power to procure fire engines, hooks, ladders,
buckets, and other apparatus, to organize fire engine, hook and ladder, and
bucket companies, to prescribe rules of duty and the government of the Fire
Department with such penalties as the City Council may deem proper, not
exceeding $100, and to make all necessary appropriations for the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 17-147)
   (C)   If the city has only a voluntary Fire Department or companies, the
City Council may levy a tax annually of not more than $0.07 on each $100 upon
the taxable value of all the taxable property within the city for the
maintenance and benefit of the Fire Department or companies. The amount of such
tax shall be established at the beginning of the year and shall be included in
the adopted budget statement. Upon collection of such tax, the City Treasurer
shall disburse the same upon the order of the Fire Chief with the approval of
the City Council.
(Neb. RS 17-718)
Statutory reference:
   Fire station acquisition, construction, and maintenance, see Neb. RS 17-953
et seq.
§ 32.21 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall manage the Fire Department, and it shall be his or her
duty to inform the City Council when any of the fire engines, hoses, ladders,
or other apparatus need repair. Upon the written consent and directive of the
City Council, the Fire Chief shall cause the repair, improvement, or
maintenance of the equipment and shall personally supervise and approve of the
same. It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to come before the City Council at
the regular meeting in January of each year to give an annual report to the
City Council of the general condition and the proposed additions or
improvements recommended by him or her.
§ 32.22 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of so many members as may be decided
by the City Council. The members may organize themselves in any way they may
decide, subject to the review of the City Council.
   (B)   The volunteer Fire Department shall not have upon its rolls at one
time more than 25 persons for each engine and hose company in the Fire
Department, and no hook and ladder company shall have upon its rolls at any one
time more than 25 members. No organization shall be deemed to be a bona fide
fire or hook and ladder company until it has procured for active service
apparatus for the extinguishment or prevention of fires, in case of a hose
company, to the value of $700, and of a hook and ladder company, to the value
of $500.
(Neb. RS 35-102)
   (C)   Members in good standing are those who keep their dues promptly paid
up and are present and render active service when called out for the legitimate
purposes of the Fire Department.
(Neb. RS 35-103)
   (D)   (1)   Volunteer firefighters of the Fire Department shall be deemed
employees of the city while in the performance of their duties as members of
the Department. Members of the volunteer Fire Department, before they are
entitled to benefits under the State Workers’ Compensation Act, shall be
recommended by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the Chief
for membership therein to the Mayor and City Council and, upon confirmation,
shall be deemed employees of the city. Members of the Fire Department after
confirmation to membership may be removed by a majority vote of the City
Council, and thereafter, shall not be considered employees of the city.
      (2)   Firefighters of the Fire Department shall be considered as acting
in the performance and within the course and scope of their employment when
performing activities outside of the corporate limits of the city, but only if
directed to do so by the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for the
Chief.
(Neb. RS 48-115)
   (E)   The City Council shall purchase and maintain in force a policy of
group term life insurance to age 65 covering the lives of all of the active
volunteer fire and rescue personnel, except that when any such person serves
more than one city or rural or suburban fire protection district, the policy
shall be purchased only by the first city or district which he or she serves.
The policy shall provide a minimum death benefit of $10,000 for death from any
cause and shall, at the option of the insured, be convertible to a permanent
form of life insurance at age 65. The coverage of such policy shall terminate
as to any individual who ceases to be an active volunteer member of the Fire
Department.
(Neb. RS 35-108)
   (F)   For the purpose of the prohibition on receipt of any witness fee,
attendance fee, or mileage fee by an employee of the city called as a witness
in connection with his or her officially assigned duties, volunteer
firefighters and rescue squad members testifying in that capacity alone shall
not be deemed employees of the city.
(Neb. RS 33-139.01)
   (G)   The City Council may compensate or reimburse any member of the Fire
Department for expenses incurred in carrying out his or her duties in an amount
set by resolution.
   (H)   All members of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations, and shall perform such duties, as may be prescribed or required of
them by the Fire Chief or the City Council. The members of the Fire Department
shall, during the time of a fire or great public danger, have and exercise the
powers and duties of police officers and shall have full power and authority to
arrest all persons guilty of any violation of the city code or the laws of the
state.
   (I)   Members of the Fire Department may hold meetings and engage in social
activities with the approval of the City Council. The Secretary shall, upon
request, keep a record of all meetings and shall make a report to the City
Council of all meetings and activities of the Fire Department.
§ 32.23 FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to use all proper means for the
extinguishment of fires, to protect property within the city and to secure the
observance of all ordinances, laws and other rules and regulations with respect
to fires and fire prevention.
§ 32.24 DISTANT FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the permission of the Mayor or Fire Chief, or pursuant to any
agreement with a fire district for mutual aid protection, such fire equipment
of the city as may be designated by the City Council as rural equipment may be
used beyond the corporate limits to extinguish reported fires.
   (B)   The firefighters of the city shall be considered as acting in the
performance and within the scope of their duties in fighting fire or saving
property or life outside the corporate limits of the city when directed to do
so by the City Council or the Fire Chief or some person authorized to act for
the Chief and, in so doing, may take such fire equipment of the city as may be
designated by the City Council.
§ 32.25 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief where a Fire Department is established or the Mayor
where no Fire Department exists, at all reasonable hours, may enter into all
buildings and upon all premises within his or her jurisdiction for the purposes
of examination, in harmony with Neb. RS 81-501.01 through 81-531, the State
Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1969, the Petroleum Products and Hazardous
Substances Storage and Handling Act and any other statutory duties imposed upon
the State Fire Marshal.
(Neb. RS 81-512)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, when directed to do so by the
City Council, to inspect or cause to be inspected by Fire Department officers,
members or some other official as often as may be necessary, but not less than
two times a year, all buildings, premises and public thoroughfares, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to
be corrected any conditions liable to create a fire hazard. The inspection
shall be of the storage, sale and use of flammable liquids, combustibles and
explosives; electric wiring and heating; the means and adequacy of exits, in
case of fire in schools, churches, hotels, halls, theaters, factories,
hospitals and all other buildings in which numbers of persons congregate from
time to time for any purpose whether publicly or privately owned; the design,
construction, location, installation and operation of equipment for storing,
handling and utilizing liquefied petroleum gases, specifying the odorization of
such gases and the degree thereof; and chemicals, prozylin plastics,
nitrocellulose films or any other hazardous material that may now or hereafter
exist.
§ 32.26 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Upon the finding that the city code has been violated, the Fire Chief
shall notify, or cause to be notified, the owner, occupant or manager of the
premises where a violation has occurred. Notice may be made personally or by
delivering a copy to the premises and affixing it to the door of the main
entrance of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order
upon the owner, the order may be served personally, or by mailing a copy to the
owner’s last known post office address if the owner is absent from the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any such order shall be immediately complied with by the owner,
occupant or manager of the premises or building. The owner, occupant or manager
may, within five days after the order by the Fire Chief or his or her agent,
appeal the order with the City Council requesting a review, and it shall be the
duty of the City Council to hear the same within not less than five days nor
more than ten days from the time when the request was filed in writing with the
City Clerk. The City Council shall then affirm, modify or rescind the order as
safety and justice may require, and the decision shall then be final, subject
only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or equity. The
order shall be modified or rescinded only where it is evident that reasonable
safety exists and that conditions necessitate a variance due to the probable
hardship in complying literally with the order of the Fire Chief. A copy of any
decision so made shall be sent to both the Fire Chief and the owner, occupant
or manager making the appeal.
§ 32.27 POWER OF ARREST.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power, during the
time of a fire and for a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment, to arrest
any suspected arsonist, or other person hindering or resisting the firefighting
effort or any person who conducts himself or herself in a noisy or disorderly
manner. The officials shall be severally vested with the usual powers and
authority of city police officers to command all persons to assist them in the
performance of their duties.
§ 32.28 FIRE INVESTIGATION.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property
has been destroyed or damaged. All fires of unknown origin shall be reported,
and such officer shall especially make an investigation and report as to
whether the fire was the result of carelessness, accident or design. The
investigation shall begin immediately after the occurrence of the fire, and the
State Fire Marshal shall have the right to supervise and direct the
investigation whenever he or she deems it expedient or necessary. The officer
making the investigation of fires occurring in the city shall forthwith notify
the State Fire Marshal and shall within one week of the occurrence of the fire
furnish him or her written statement of all the facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire and such further information as he or she may call for.
(Neb. RS 81-506)
§ 32.29 HOSE TESTED.
   All fire hoses shall be pressure tested at least one time each year.
(Prior Code, § 3-507)
§ 32.30 DRILLS.
   The Municipal Fire Department shall hold departmental fire drills at least
six times per year at such times as the members of the Fire Department shall
decide.
(Prior Code, § 3-508)
AMBULANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.45 CITY RESCUE SQUAD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the city’s rescue squad to operate the City
Ambulance Department, said squad to consist of such number of volunteer members
as the City Council shall deem to be necessary and appropriate. The rescue
squad shall have authority to provisionally appoint members to said squad,
which appointments shall be submitted to the City Council and approved by it.
All vacancies that may occur in the membership shall be filled in the same
manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-601)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 23-378, 35-514.02 and 71-5101 et seq.
§ 32.46 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The members of the city’s rescue squad shall, at the time of
each annual meeting of the squad, elect a President and such other officers as
are established by the bylaws of said city’s rescue squad. Said officers shall
be confirmed by the City Council and shall thereafter hold their offices until
successors are elected and qualified.
      (2)   Any officer shall be subject to removal by the City Council, at any
time, for cause shown at an informal hearing before the City Council, after
notice, allowing said officer to present evidence on his or her own behalf.
   (B)   Members of the city’s rescue squad shall establish bylaws and policies
for the governance of said squad, including minimum training requirements for
all members. Any and all bylaws, rules or policies of the city’s rescue squad
shall be subject to review by the City Council and may be amended by the
Council. The squad shall meet at least once each month for practice and drill.
(Prior Code, § 3-602)
§ 32.47 OFFICERS; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The President and other officers of the city’s rescue squad shall be under
the general supervision of the Mayor and City Council and shall be responsible
for the organization, control, training and discipline of the members of the
squad. They shall be responsible for the care, control and condition of the
ambulance units, apparatus and equipment and shall see that all such apparatus
and equipment is ready for use at all times. The President shall submit a
report as to the status for the squad membership, equipment and apparatus at
the regular City Council meeting in April of each year.
(Prior Code, § 3-603)
§ 32.48 RECORDS.
   The rescue squad shall cause to be kept in convenient form a complete record
of all calls, together with charges made for such calls. Such records shall
include the time and location of any call, services rendered by the city’s
rescue squad and the charge of said services as specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-604)
§ 32.49 AMBULANCE SERVICE RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   There is hereby established the following rate schedule for ambulance
service provided by the city, to-wit:
 
Ambulance service, advanced life support, Level 1, emergency transport,    $715
one way
Ambulance service, advanced life support, Level 2, emergency transport,    $760
one way
Ambulance service, base rate, basic life support, emergency transport, one $575
way
Ambulance service, base rate, non-emergency transport, one way             $475
Ambulance service, emergency and non-emergency transport, per loaded mile  $15
 
   (B)   All charges for ambulance calls as above set forth shall be payable to
the City Clerk, who shall collect and remit the same to the City Treasurer. All
amounts due for ambulance service provided for herein shall be payable within
ten days from the date of said ambulance service.
(Prior Code, § 3-605) (Ord. 576, passed 9-4-1990; Ord. 689, passed 6-6-1995;
Ord. 742, passed 7-1-1997; Ord. 855, passed 5-9-2006; Ord. 890, passed 2-8-
2011; Ord. 907, passed 12-3-2013)
§ 32.50 DRIVERS AND ATTENDANTS; SALARIES.
   (A)   Ambulance drivers and attendants employed by the city shall receive as
wages the sum of $8.50 each, per call, within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Ambulance drivers and attendants employed by the city shall receive as
wages the sum of $15 each, per call, from the city to the City of Crete,
Nebraska.
   (C)   Ambulance drivers and attendants employed by the city shall receive as
wages the sum of $25 each, per call, for calls of between 15 and 100 miles, one
way, from the city.
   (D)   Ambulance drivers and attendants employed by the city shall receive as
wages the sum of $43.50 each, per call, for calls of between 100 miles and 125
miles, one way, from the city.
   (E)   Ambulance drivers and attendants employed by the city shall receive as
wages the sum of $47 each, per call, for calls of between 125 miles and 150
miles, one way, from the city.
   (F)   Ambulance drivers and attendants employed by the city shall receive as
wages, for calls in excess of 150 miles, one way, from the city the sum of $47
each plus $3 each for each additional 50 miles or fraction thereof.
   (G)   Should ambulance drivers and attendants employed by the city be
required to wait an inordinate time while on any call while not actually
driving to or from their destination, then and in that event, they shall be
entitled to compensation for standby time at the rate of $8.50 per hour per
person plus any necessary expenses incurred.
   (H)   All wages hereinabove set forth shall be payable at least monthly.
(Prior Code, § 3-606) (Ord. 690, passed 6-6-1995)
§ 32.51 BILLING.
   The officers of the city’s rescue squad shall see that the City Treasurer
receives an invoice for all services rendered by the rescue squad. The
Treasurer shall then cause all persons responsible for ambulance services
rendered to be billed for such services in a timely manner and shall maintain
records of said billings and the payments and other responses to said billings.
(Prior Code, § 3-607)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.65 DUTIES.
   (A)   If the Mayor and City Council have provided for the appointment of a
Police Chief, the Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and
such further number of regular police officers as may be duly ordered by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the direction of the Mayor, have
control and management of all matters relating to the Police Department and its
officers and members and shall have the custody and control of all property and
books belonging to the Department. The Chief shall devote his or her whole time
to the city affairs and interests of the city and to the preservation of peace,
order, safety and cleanliness thereof.
   (C)   The Department shall execute and enforce all laws and also the orders
of the Mayor. It shall be the duty of the Department to protect the rights of
persons and property. The Department shall take notice of all nuisances,
impediments, obstructions and defects in the streets, avenues, alleys, business
places and residences of the city. The Department shall execute, or cause to be
executed, the processes issued and shall cause all persons arrested to be
brought before the proper court for trial as speedily as possible. The Chief of
Police and all regular and special police officers shall become thoroughly
conversant with the laws of the city and shall see that the same are strictly
enforced and shall make sworn complaints against any person or persons for
violation of the same. It shall be the duty of every city police officer making
a lawful arrest to search all persons in the presence of some other person,
whenever possible, and to carefully keep and produce to the proper judicial
official upon the trial everything found upon the person of such prisoners. All
personal effects so taken from prisoners shall be restored to them upon their
release. The Police Chief and other police officers shall file such reports as
may be required by the city ordinances and the laws of the state. No law
enforcement official shall have any interest in any establishment having a
liquor license.
   (D)   Suitable badges shall be furnished to the city police by the city. Any
police officer who loses or destroys the same shall be required to pay the
replacement costs. If a police officer leaves the city police force, he or she
shall immediately deliver his or her badge to the Police Chief.
   (E)   City police officers shall have full power and authority to call on
any person whenever necessary to assist them in performing public duties, and
failure, neglect or refusal to render such assistance shall be deemed an
offense.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.66 RESERVE OFFICER BOND.
   No appointment of a law enforcement reserve officer shall be valid until a
bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city, has been filed with the City
Clerk by the individual appointed or a blanket surety bond arranged and paid
for by the City Council and bonding all such officers of the City Council, has
been filed. These bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Neb. RS Chapter
11, Article 1.
(Neb. RS 81-1444)
§ 32.67 ARREST AND ENFORCEMENT JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The law enforcement agency shall have the power to arrest all
offenders against the laws of the state or of the city, by day or by night, in
the same manner as the County Sheriff and to keep such offenders in the city
prison, county jail, or other place of confinement to prevent their escape
until trial can be had before the proper officer.
(Neb. RS 17-118)
   (B)   Every city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to
enforce the laws of this state and the city or otherwise perform the functions
of that office anywhere within his or her primary jurisdiction.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE.
         (a)   A law enforcement officer whose life is in danger; or
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who needs assistance in making an
arrest and the suspect:
            1.   Will not be apprehended unless immediately arrested;
            2.   May cause injury to himself or herself or others or damage to
property unless immediately arrested; or
            3.   May destroy or conceal evidence of the commission of a crime.
      PRIMARY JURISDICTION. The geographic area within territorial limits of
the city.
   (D)   Any city law enforcement officer who is within this state, but beyond
his or her primary jurisdiction, has the power and authority to enforce the
laws of this state or any legal ordinance of any city or incorporated village,
or otherwise perform the functions of his or her office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within his or her primary jurisdiction in the following cases:
      (1)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a felony, may follow that person
into any other jurisdiction in this state and there arrest and detain that
person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (2)   Any city law enforcement officer, if in a fresh attempt to
apprehend a person suspected of committing a misdemeanor or a traffic
infraction, may follow that person anywhere in an area within 25 miles of the
boundaries of the officer’s primary jurisdiction and there arrest and detain
that person and return that person to the officer’s primary jurisdiction;
      (3)   Any city law enforcement officer has this enforcement and arrest
and detention authority when responding to a call in which a local, state, or
federal law enforcement officer is in need of assistance; and
      (4)   If the city, under the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act
or the Joint Public Agency Act, enters into a contract with any other city or
county for law enforcement services or joint law enforcement services, law
enforcement personnel may have this enforcement authority within the
jurisdiction of each of the participating political subdivisions if provided
for in the agreement. Unless otherwise provided in the agreement, the city
shall provide liability insurance coverage for its own law enforcement
personnel as provided in Neb. RS 13-1802.
   (E)   When probable cause exists to believe that a person is operating or is
in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle, motorboat, personal
watercraft, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
drug, or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02, a city law enforcement officer has the power and authority to do
any of the following, or any combination thereof:
      (1)   Transport that person to a facility outside of the law enforcement
officer’s primary jurisdiction for appropriate chemical testing of the person;
      (2)   Administer outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary
jurisdiction any post-arrest test advisement to the person; or
      (3)   With respect to that person, perform other procedures or functions
outside of the law enforcement officer’s primary jurisdiction which are
directly and solely related to enforcing the laws that concern a person
operating or being in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle,
motorboat, or aircraft while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any
other drug or otherwise in violation of Neb. RS 28-1465, 28-1466, 28-1472, 37-
1254.01, 37-1254.02, 60-4,163, 60-4,164, 60-6,196, 60-6,197, 60-6,211.01, or
60-6,211.02.
(Neb. RS 29-215)
   (F)   If city law enforcement personnel are rendering aid in their law
enforcement capacity outside the limits of the city in the event of disaster,
emergency, or civil defense emergency, or in connection with any program of
practice or training for a disaster, emergency, or civil defense emergency when
that program is conducted or participated in by the State Emergency Management
Agency or with any other related training program, the law enforcement
personnel have the power and authority to enforce the laws of this state or any
legal ordinances or resolutions of the local government where they are
rendering aid or otherwise perform the functions of their office, including the
authority to arrest and detain suspects, as if enforcing the laws or performing
the functions within their primary jurisdiction. The city shall self-insure or
contract for insurance against any liability for personal injuries or property
damage that may be incurred by it or by its personnel as the result of any
movement made pursuant to this division.
(Neb. RS 81-829.65)
§ 32.68 OFFICERS; DISCIPLINE OR REMOVAL FROM DUTY.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall by ordinance adopt rules and regulations
governing the removal or discipline of any police officer, including the Chief
of Police. The ordinance shall include a procedure for making application for
an appeal, specifications on the period of time within which such application
shall be made, and provisions on the manner in which the appeals hearing shall
be conducted.
      (2)   Both the police officer and the individual imposing the
disciplinary action shall have the right at the hearing to be heard and to
present evidence to the Council for its consideration.
      (3)   Not later than 30 days following the adjournment of the meeting at
which the hearing was held, the Council shall vote to uphold, reverse, or
modify the removal or disciplinary action. The failure of the Council to act
within 30 days or the failure of a majority of the elected Council members to
vote to reverse or modify the removal or disciplinary action shall be construed
as a vote to uphold the removal or disciplinary action. The decision of the
Council shall be based upon its determination that, under the facts and
evidence presented at the hearing, the challenged removal or disciplinary
action was necessary for the proper management and the effective operation of
the Police Department in the performance of its duties under the statutes of
the state.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
preemptory suspension or immediate removal from duty of an officer by the
appropriate authority, pending the hearing authorized by this division, in
cases of gross misconduct, neglect of duty, or disobedience of orders.
(Neb. RS 17-107)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided otherwise in an ordinance adopted by the
Council, the procedures specified in this division (B) shall constitute the
rules and regulations required by Neb. RS 17-107.
      (2)   No police officer, including the Chief of Police, shall be
disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or discharged except upon written
notice stating the reasons for such disciplinary action, suspension, demotion,
removal, or discharge. Such notice shall also contain a statement informing the
police officer of his or her right to a hearing before the City Council.
      (3) Any police officer so disciplined, suspended, demoted, removed, or
discharged may, within ten days after being notified of such disciplinary
action, suspension, demotion, removal, or discharge, file with the City Clerk a
written demand for a hearing before the City Council. The Council shall set the
matter for hearing not less than ten nor more than 20 days after the filing of
the written demand for a hearing. The Council shall give the police officer
written notice of the hearing not less than seven days prior to the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the police officer shall have the right to:
         (a)   Respond in person to the charges and to present witnesses and
documentary evidence;
         (b)   Confront and cross-examine available adverse witnesses; and
         (c)   Be represented by counsel.
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 2-301) (Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Intergovernmental risk management; authority
   
33.02   ADA compliance
Meetings
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Open to public; notice; agenda
   
33.17   Notice to news media
   
33.18   Council meetings; when; quorum; votes
   
33.19   Special meetings
   
33.20   Emergency meetings
   
33.21   Closed sessions
   
33.22   Public participation
   
33.23   City Council; order of business
   
33.24   Votes
   
33.25   City Council; parliamentary procedure
   
33.26   Minutes
   
33.27   Change in office
Bonds and Oaths
   
33.40   Bonds; requirements
   
33.41   Oath of office; city officials
Compensation; Conflicts of Interest
   
33.55   Compensation; how fixed; limitations
   
33.56   Conflict of interest involving contracts
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT; AUTHORITY.
   The governing body and any one or more public agencies, as defined in Neb.
RS 44-4303, may make and execute an agreement providing for joint and
cooperative action in accordance with Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339, to form,
become members of and operate a risk management pool for the purpose of
providing to members risk management services and insurance coverages in the
form of group self-insurance or standard insurance, including any combination
of group self-insurance and standard insurance, to protect members against
losses arising from any of the following:
   (A)   General liability;
   (B)   Damage, destruction or loss of real or personal property, including,
but not limited to, loss of use or occupancy and loss of income or extra
expense resulting from loss of use or occupancy;
   (C)   Errors and omissions liability; and
   (D)   Workers’ compensation liability.
(Prior Code, § 1-1101) (Ord. 522, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 44-4301 through 44-4339
§ 33.02 ADA COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Adoption of transition plan. The transition plan compiled and prepared
for the city by Chenworth Associates, which sets forth the necessity of the
appointment of a responsible individual who shall be responsible for
coordinating the city’s efforts to meet the requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act and for investigating complaints alleging the city’s
noncompliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the necessity of
adopting a grievance procedure for the prompt and equitable resolution of
complaints alleging any action prohibited by the United States Department of
Justice regulations implementing Title II of the Americans with Disabilities
Act, the necessity of providing notice to the public that the accommodations
and procedures provided by the city comply with the requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act, the necessity to modify the existing
facilities of the city so that they meet the requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, the necessity to provide devices and procedures to ensure
accommodations for adequate communication which meet the requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act, the necessity to modify the ordinances of the
city so that they comply with the requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act and the necessity to establish employment and personnel
practices that meet the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act, is
hereby approved and adopted in all respects.
(Prior Code, § 1-1201)
   (B)   Coordinating officer; appointment. The Municipal Utilities
Superintendent is hereby designated as the city’s designated responsible
employee who shall be responsible for coordinating the city’s efforts to meet
the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act, for investigating
complaints alleging the city’s noncompliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act and for establishing and publishing a grievance procedure
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-1202)
   (C)   Grievance procedure. The city adopts the following grievance procedure
for the prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action
prohibited by the United States Department of Justice regulations implementing
Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Title II states, in part, that
“no otherwise qualified disabled individual shall, solely by reason of such
disability, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of or be
subject to discrimination” in programs or activities sponsored by the city.
This includes the city’s nursing home, Czech Village or other programs or
boards supported by the city.
      (1)   Complaints should be addressed to: Municipal Utilities
Superintendent, City of Wilber, P.O. Box 486, Wilber, Nebraska 68465-0486. The
Municipal Utilities Superintendent has been designated by the City Council to
coordinate Americans with Disabilities compliance efforts by the city.
      (2)   A complaint should be filed in writing or verbally. It should
contain the name and address of the person filing it and briefly describe the
alleged violation of regulations.
      (3)   A complaint should be filed within 30 days after complainant
becomes aware of the alleged violation. Processing of allegations of
discrimination which occurred before this grievance procedure was in place will
be considered on a case-by-case basis.
      (4)   An investigation, as may be appropriate, shall follow a filing of
complaint. The investigation shall be conducted by the Municipal Utilities
Superintendent. A complainant may appeal the finding of the investigation to
the City Council for review and action. These rules contemplate informal but
thorough investigations, affording all interested persons and their
representatives, if any, an opportunity to submit evidence relevant to a
complaint.
      (5)   A written determination as to the validity of the complaint and a
description of resolution, if any, shall be issued by the Municipal Utilities
Superintendent and a copy forwarded to the complainant no later than 30 days
after its filing.
      (6)   The complainant can request reconsideration of the case in
instances where he or she is dissatisfied with the determination. The request
for reconsideration should be made within 30 days of issuance of the
determination to the City Council. The City Clerk shall receive all requests
for reconsideration at 101 W. 3rd Street, Wilber, Nebraska.
      (7)   The rights of a person to a prompt and equitable resolution of the
complaint filed shall not impair the complainant from pursuit of other remedies
allowed under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Use of the grievance
procedure is not a prerequisite to pursuit of other remedies.
      (8)   The City Clerk, on the behalf of the Americans with Disabilities
Act Coordinator, shall maintain the files and records of the city relating to
the complaints filed.
      (9)   These rules shall be construed to protect the substantive rights of
interested persons to meet appropriate due process standards and to assure that
the city complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act and implementing
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-1203)
(Ord. 619, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 620, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 621, passed 3-2-
1993)
MEETINGS
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEETING. All regular, special, or called meetings, formal or informal, of a
public body for the purposes of briefing, discussion of public business,
formation of tentative policy, or the taking of any action.
   PUBLIC BODY.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council;
         (b)   All independent boards, commissions, bureaus, committees,
councils, subunits, or any other bodies created by the Constitution of
Nebraska, statute, ordinance, or otherwise pursuant to law; and
         (c)   Advisory committees of the bodies listed above.
      (2)   PUBLIC BODY does not include subcommittees of such bodies unless a
quorum of the public body attends a subcommittee meeting or unless the
subcommittees are holding hearings, making policy, or taking formal action on
behalf of their parent body.
(Neb. RS 84-1409)
§ 33.16 OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE; AGENDA.
   (A)   The formation of public policy is public business and may not be
conducted in secret. Every meeting of a public body shall be open to the public
in order that citizens may exercise their democratic privilege of attending and
speaking at meetings of public bodies, except as otherwise provided by the
Constitution of Nebraska, federal statutes, and the Open Meetings Act.
(Neb. RS 84-1408)
   (B)   (1)   Each public body shall give reasonable advance publicized notice
of the time and place of each meeting as provided in division (B)(2) below. The
notice shall be transmitted to all members of the public body and to the
public.
      (2)   The notice shall be published by:
         (a)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
public body’s jurisdiction and, if available, on such newspaper’s web site; or
         (b)   Posting written notice in three conspicuous public places in the
city. The notice shall be posted in the same three places for each meeting.
      (3)   In addition to a method of notice required by division (B)(2)
above, the notice shall also be provided by any other appropriate method
designated by the public body.
      (4)   Each public body shall record the methods and dates of the notice
in its minutes.
      (5)   The notice shall contain an agenda of subjects known at the time of
the publicized notice or a statement that the agenda, which shall be kept
continually current, is readily available for public inspection at the office
of the public body during normal business hours. Agenda items shall be
sufficiently descriptive to give the public reasonable notice of the matters to
be considered at the meeting. Except for items of an emergency nature, the
agenda shall not be altered later than 24 hours before the scheduled
commencement of the meeting or 48 hours before the scheduled commencement of a
meeting of the City Council scheduled outside the corporate limits of the city.
The public body shall have the right to modify the agenda to include items of
an emergency nature only at such public meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
Statutory reference: 
Videoconferencing when emergency is declared by the Governor under the
Emergency Management
Act, see Neb. RS 84-1411(7)
§ 33.17 NOTICE TO NEWS MEDIA.
   The City Clerk, in the case of the City Council, and the secretary or other
designee of each other public body shall maintain a list of the news media
requesting notification of meetings and shall make reasonable efforts to
provide advance notification to them of the time and place of each meeting and
the subjects to be discussed at that meeting.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.18 COUNCIL MEETINGS; WHEN; QUORUM; VOTES.
   The meetings of the City Council shall be held in the meeting place of the
municipality. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of each
month, commencing at the hour of 7:00 p.m. A majority of all the members
elected to the Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any
business, but a fewer number may adjourn from time to time and compel the
attendance of absent members. When the City Council consists of four members as
established by ordinance, the Mayor shall be deemed a member of the City
Council for purposes of establishing a quorum when the Mayor’s presence is
necessary to establish the quorum. Unless a greater vote is required by law, an
affirmative vote of a least one-half of the elected members shall be required
for the transaction of any business.
(Prior Code, § 1-510) (Ord. 622, passed 5-4-1993; Ord. 718, passed 10-1-1996;
Ord. 794, passed 3-7-2000; Ord. 961, passed 3-8-2022; Ord. 978, passed 3-12-
2024)
§ 33.19 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor or any three Councilmembers shall have power to call special
meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the
Council in writing; and the call and object, as well as the disposition
thereof, shall be entered upon the journal by the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 17-106)
   (B)   On filing the call for a special meeting, the City Clerk shall notify
the Mayor and Councilmembers of the special meeting, stating the time and
purpose.
§ 33.20 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   When it is necessary to hold an emergency meeting without reasonable advance
public notice, the nature of the emergency shall be stated in the minutes and
any formal action taken in that meeting shall pertain only to the emergency.
Such emergency meetings may be held by means of electronic or telecommunication
equipment. The provisions of §
33.17 shall be complied with in conducting emergency meetings. Complete minutes
of such emergency meetings specifying the nature of the emergency and any
formal action taken at the meeting shall be made available to the public by no
later than the end of the next regular business day.
(Neb. RS 84-1411)
§ 33.21 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any public body may hold a closed session by the affirmative
vote of a majority of its voting members if a closed session is clearly
necessary for the protection of the public interest or for the prevention of
needless injury to the reputation of an individual and if that individual has
not requested a public meeting. The subject matter and the reason necessitating
the closed session shall be identified in the motion to close. Closed sessions
may be held for, but shall not be limited to, such reasons as:
         (a)   Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining, real
estate purchases, pending litigation, or litigation which is imminent as
evidenced by communication of a claim or threat of litigation to or by the
public body;
         (b)   Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices;
         (c)   Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct; or
         (d)   Evaluation of the job performance of a person when necessary to
prevent needless injury to the reputation of a person and if that person has
not requested a public meeting.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall permit a closed meeting for
discussion of the appointment or election of a new member to any public body.
   (B)   The vote to hold a closed session shall be taken in open session. The
entire motion, the vote of each member on the question of holding a closed
session, and the time when the closed session commenced and concluded shall be
recorded in the minutes. If the motion to close passes, then the presiding
officer immediately prior to the closed session shall restate on the record the
limitation of the subject matter of the closed session. The public body holding
such a closed session shall restrict its consideration of matters during the
closed portions to only those purposes set forth in the motion to close as the
reason for the closed session. The meeting shall be reconvened in open session
before any formal action may be taken. For purposes of this section, formal
action means a collective decision or a collective commitment or promise to
make a decision on any question, motion, proposal, resolution, order, or
ordinance or formation of a position or policy but shall not include
negotiating guidance given by members of the public body to legal counsel or
other negotiators in closed sessions authorized under division (A)(1)(a) above.
   (C)   Any member of any public body shall have the right to challenge the
continuation of a closed session if the member determines that the session has
exceeded the reason stated in the original motion to hold a closed session or
if the member contends that the closed session is neither clearly necessary for
the protection of the public interest or the prevention of needless injury to
the reputation of an individual. Such challenge shall be overruled only by a
majority vote of the members of the public body. The challenge and its
disposition shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require that any meeting
be closed to the public.
(Neb. RS 84-1410)
§ 33.22 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Subject to this subchapter and the Open Meetings Act, the public has
the right to attend and the right to speak at meetings of public bodies, and
all or any part of a meeting of a public body, except for closed sessions
called pursuant to §
33.21, may be videotaped, televised, photographed, broadcast, or recorded by
any person in attendance by means of a tape recorder, a camera, video
equipment, or any other means of pictorial or sonic reproduction or in writing.
   (B)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above for any public body
to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations regarding the conduct of
persons attending, speaking at, videotaping, televising, photographing,
broadcasting, or recording its meetings, including meetings held by virtual
conferencing. A body may not be required to allow citizens to speak at each
meeting, but it may not forbid public participation at all meetings.
   (C)   No public body shall require members of the public to identify
themselves as a condition for admission to the meeting nor shall such body
require that the name of any member of the public be placed on the agenda prior
to such meeting in order to speak about items on the agenda. The body shall
require any member of the public desiring to address the body to identify
himself or herself, including an address and the name of any organization
represented by such person unless the address requirement is waived to protect
the security of the individual.
   (D)   No public body shall, for the purpose of circumventing this subchapter
or the Open Meetings Act, hold a meeting in a place known by the body to be too
small to accommodate the anticipated audience.
   (E)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds its meeting in its traditional meeting place which is located in this
state.
   (F)   No public body shall be deemed in violation of this section if it
holds a meeting outside of this state if, but only if, a member entity of the
public body is located outside of this state and the other requirements of Neb.
RS 84-1412 are met.
   (G)   The public body shall, upon request, make a reasonable effort to
accommodate the public’s right to hear the discussion and testimony presented
at the meeting.
   (H)   Public bodies shall make available at the meeting, for examination and
copying by members of the public, at least one copy of all reproducible written
material to be discussed at an open meeting, either in paper or electronic
form. Public bodies shall make available at least one current copy of the Open
Meetings Act posted in the meeting room at a location accessible to members of
the public. At the beginning of the meeting, the public shall be informed about
the location of the posted information.
(Neb. RS 84-1412)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2438
§ 33.23 CITY COUNCIL; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Promptly at the hour set by law on the day of each regular meeting, the
members of the City Council, the Mayor, the City Clerk and such other city
officials that may be required shall take their regular stations in the meeting
place, and the business of the city shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the manner prescribed by the official agenda on file at the
office of the City Clerk.
§ 33.24 VOTES.
   (A)   Any action taken on any question or motion duly moved and seconded
shall be by roll call vote of the public body in open session, and the record
shall state how each member voted, or if the member was absent or not voting.
The requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
   (B)   The vote to elect leadership within a public body may be taken by
secret ballot, but the total number of votes for each candidate shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.25 CITY COUNCIL; PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, the rules of parliamentary
procedure specified in this section shall apply to meetings of the City
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order during meetings of the City Council and
shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the Council. When
any person is called to order, he or she shall be seated until the point is
decided. When the Mayor is putting the question, no person shall leave the
meeting room. Every person present, previous to speaking, shall rise from his
or her seat and address the presiding officer and while speaking shall confine
his or her comments to the question. When two or more persons rise at once, the
Mayor shall recognize the one who spoke first. All resolutions or motions shall
be reduced to writing before being acted upon, if requested by the City Clerk
or any member of the Council. Every member of the Council who is present when a
question is voted upon shall cast his or her vote unless excused by a majority
of the members of the Council present. No motion shall be put or debated unless
seconded. When seconded, it shall be stated by the Mayor before being
debatable. In all cases where a motion or resolution is entered on the minutes,
the name of the member of the Council making the motion or resolution shall be
entered also. After each vote, the yeas and nays shall be taken and entered in
the minutes. Before the vote is actually taken, any resolution, motion or
proposed ordinance may be withdrawn from consideration by the sponsor with the
consent of the member of the Council seconding the resolution, motion or
ordinance. When, in the consideration of an ordinance, different times or
amounts are proposed, the question shall be put on the largest sum, or the
longest time. A question to reconsider shall be in order when made by a member
voting with the majority, but the motion to reconsider must be made before the
expiration of the third regular meeting after the initial consideration of the
question. When any question is under debate, no motion shall be made,
entertained or seconded except the previous question, a motion to table and to
adjourn. Each of those motions shall be decided without debate. Any of the
rules of the Council for meetings may be suspended by a two-thirds’ vote of the
members present. In all cases in which provisions are not made by these rules,
Robert’s Rules of Order is the authority by which the Council shall decide all
procedural disputes that may arise.
§ 33.26 MINUTES.
   (A)   Each public body shall keep minutes of all meetings showing the time,
place, members present and absent and the substance of all matters discussed.
   (B)   The minutes of all meetings and evidence and documentation received or
disclosed in open session shall be public records and open to public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (C)   Minutes shall be written or kept as an electronic record and shall be
available for inspection within ten working days or prior to the next convened
meeting, whichever occurs earlier, except that the city may have an additional
ten working days if the employee responsible for writing or keeping the minutes
is absent due to a serious illness or emergency.
(Neb. RS 84-1413)
§ 33.27 CHANGE IN OFFICE.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall meet at the time and place of the
first regular meeting in December in each election year, and the outgoing
officers and the outgoing members of the Council shall present their reports.
Upon the outgoing Council having completed its business, the outgoing members
of the Council shall surrender their offices to the incoming members, and the
outgoing officers shall thereupon each surrender to their successors in office
all property, records, papers and moneys belonging to the same.
   (B)   The newly elected members of the Council and those continuing in
office shall convene immediately after the prior Council adjourns and proceed
to organize themselves for the ensuing year. The Mayor shall call the meeting
to order. The Clerk shall report to the Council the names of all Council
members-elect who have qualified for their respective offices. The Council
shall examine the credentials of its members and any other elective officers of
the city to see that each has been duly and properly elected and to see that
such oaths and bonds as are required have been given. The Clerk’s report shall
be spread upon the minutes of the meeting preceding the roll call.
   (C)   After ascertaining that all Council members and officers are duly
qualified and after the Clerk has called the roll, the Council shall elect a
President of the Council. The Mayor shall nominate his or her candidates for
appointive offices in which the terms of incumbents are expired and call for a
vote on approval of the candidates. The Mayor shall then proceed with the
regular order of business.
BONDS AND OATHS
§ 33.40 BONDS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to require from all officers
and servants, elected or appointed, bonds and security or evidence of
equivalent insurance for the faithful performance of their duties. The city may
pay the premium for such bonds or insurance coverage.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (B)   (1)   All official bonds of officers of the city shall be in form
joint and several and made payable to the city in such penalty as the City
Council may fix.
      (2)   In place of the individual bonds required to be furnished by
municipal officers, a schedule, position, blanket bond or undertaking or
evidence of equivalent insurance may be given by municipal officers, or a
single corporate surety fidelity, schedule, position, blanket bond or
undertaking or evidence of insurance coverage covering all the officers,
including officers required by law to furnish an individual bond or
undertaking, may be furnished. The municipality may pay the premium for the
bond or insurance coverage. The bond or insurance coverage shall be, at a
minimum, an aggregate of the amounts fixed by law or by the City Council, and
with such terms and conditions as may be required.
(Neb. RS 11-104)
      (3)   The penalty amount on any bond shall not fall below the legal
minimum, when one has been set by the state, for each particular official.
   (C)   (1)   Official bonds, with the oath endorsed thereon, shall be filed
in the City Clerk’s office within the following time:
         (a)   Of all officers elected at any general election, following
receipt of their election certificate and not later than ten days before the
first Thursday after the first Tuesday in January next succeeding the election;
         (b)   Of all appointed officers, within 30 days after their
appointment; and
         (c)   Of officers elected at any special election and city officers,
within 30 days after the canvass of the votes of the election at which they
were chosen.
      (2)   The filing of the bond with the oath endorsed thereon does not
authorize a person to take any official action prior to the beginning of his or
her term of office pursuant to Article XVII, § 5, of the State Constitution.
(Neb. RS 11-105)
   (D)   All official bonds of city officers shall be executed by the principal
named in such bonds and by at least two sufficient sureties who shall be
freeholders of the county in which such bonds are given, or any official bond
of a city officer may be executed by the officer as principal and by a
guaranty, surety, fidelity or bonding company as surety, or by two or more such
companies. Only such companies as are legally authorized to transact business
in this state shall be eligible to suretyship on the bond of a city officer.
(Neb. RS 11-109)
   (E)   The City Clerk shall carefully record and preserve the bonds in his or
her office and shall give certified copies thereof, when required, under the
seal of his or her office, and shall be entitled to receive for the same the
usual fee allowed by law for certified copies of records in other cases.
(Neb. RS 11-110)
   (F)   (1)   The approval of each official bond shall be endorsed upon such
bond by the officer approving the same, and no bond shall be filed and recorded
until so approved.
(Neb. RS 11-111)
      (2)   No bond shall be deemed to be given or complete until the approval
of the City Council and all sureties are endorsed in writing on the instrument
by the Mayor and City Clerk pursuant to the approval of the City Council.
   (G)   All official bonds shall obligate the principal and sureties for the
faithful discharge of all duties required by law of such principal and shall
inure to the benefit of any persons injured by a breach of the conditions of
such bonds.
(Neb. RS 11-112)
   (H)   No official bond shall be rendered void by reason of any informality
of irregularity in its execution or approval.
(Neb. RS 11-113)
   (I)   No city official shall be taken as security on the bond of any
administrator, executor or other officer from whom by law bond is or may be
required.
(Neb. RS 11-114)
   (J)   If any person elected or appointed to any office neglects to have his
or her official bond executed and approved as provided by law and filed for
record within the time limited by this section, the City Clerk shall
immediately issue an order to such person to show cause why he or she has
failed to properly file such bond and why his or her office should not be
declared vacant. If such person properly files the official bond within ten
days of the issuance of the show cause order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials, such filing shall be deemed
to be in compliance with this section. If such person does not file the bond
within ten days of the issuance of such order for appointed officials or before
the date for taking office for elected officials and sufficient cause is not
shown within that time, his or her office shall thereupon ipso facto become
vacant and such vacancy shall thereupon immediately be filled by election or
appointment as the law may direct in other cases of vacancy in the same office.
(Neb. RS 11-115)
   (K)   Any person appointed to fill a vacancy, before entering upon the
duties of the office, must give a bond corresponding in substance and form with
the bond required of the officer originally elected or appointed, as herein
provided.
(Neb. RS 11-116)
   (L)   When the incumbent of an office is reelected or reappointed, he or she
shall qualify by taking the oath and giving the bond as above directed, but
when such officer has had public funds or property in his or her control, his
or her bond shall not be approved until he or she has produced and fully
accounted for such funds and property. When it is ascertained that the
incumbent of an office holds over by reason of the nonelection or
nonappointment of a successor or of the neglect or refusal of the successor to
qualify, he or she shall qualify anew within ten days from the time at which
his or her successor, if elected, should have qualified.
(Neb. RS 11-117)
   (M)   No person shall be surety for the same officer for more than two
successive terms of the same office, but this provision shall not apply to
incorporated surety companies.
(Neb. RS 11-118)
   (N)   If the sureties on the official bond of any appointed officer of the
city, in the opinion of the City Council, become insufficient, the Council may
by resolution fix a reasonable time within which the officer may give a new
bond or additional sureties as directed. If the officer fails, refuses or
neglects to give a new bond or additional sureties to the satisfaction and
approval of the Council, the office shall, by such failure, refusal or neglect,
become vacant and it shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a competent
and qualified person to fill the office.
§ 33.41 OATH OF OFFICE; CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All officials of the city, whether elected or appointed, except when a
different oath is specifically provided herein, shall before entering upon
their respective duties take and subscribe the following oath, which shall be
endorsed upon their respective bonds:
   “I, ______________________________, do solemnly swear that I will support
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Nebraska, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely and without
mental reservation or for the purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully
and impartially perform the duties of the office of ____________________,
according to law and to the best of my ability. And I do further swear that I
do not advocate nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am in this position I will
not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence. So help me God.”
   (B)   If any such officer is not required to give bond, the oath shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
(Neb. RS 11-101)
COMPENSATION; CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 33.55 COMPENSATION; HOW FIXED; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The officers and employees of the city shall receive such compensation
as the Mayor and Council shall fix by ordinance.
(Neb. RS 17-108)
   (B)   The city may enact ordinances or bylaws to regulate and prescribe the
compensation of officers not provided for in state law.
(Neb. RS 17-604)
   (C)   No officer shall receive any pay or perquisites from the city other
than his or her salary. The City Council shall not pay or appropriate any money
or other valuable thing to any person not an officer for the performance of any
act, service or duty, the doing or performance of which shall come within the
proper scope of the duties of any officer of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-611)
   (D)   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or
diminished during the term for which he or she shall have been elected, except
when there has been a combination and merger of offices as provided in §
31.02, except that when there are officers elected to the Council, or any other
board or commission having more than one member and the terms of one or more
members commence and end at different times, the compensation of all members of
such council, board or commission may be increased or diminished at the
beginning of the full term of any member thereof. No person who shall have
resigned or vacated any office shall be eligible to the same during the time
for which he or she was elected if during the same time the emoluments thereof
were increased.
(Neb. RS 17-612)
§ 33.56 CONFLICT OF INTEREST INVOLVING CONTRACTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS ASSOCIATION.
         (a)   A business:
            1.   In which the individual is a partner, limited liability
company member, director, or officer; or
            2.   In which the individual or a member of the individual’s
immediate family is a stockholder of closed corporation stock worth $1,000 or
more at fair market value or which represents more than a 5% equity interest or
is a stockholder of publicly traded stock worth $10,000 or more at fair market
value or which represents more than 10% equity interest.
         (b)   An individual who occupies a confidential professional
relationship protected by law shall be exempt from this definition. This
definition shall not apply to publicly traded stock under a trading account if
the filer reports the name and address of the stockbroker.
(Neb. RS 49-1408)
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A child residing in an individual’s household, a spouse
of an individual, or an individual claimed by that individual or that
individual’s spouse as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Neb. RS 49-1425)
      OFFICER.
         (a)   Includes:
            1.   A member of any board or commission of the city which spends
and administers its own funds, who is dealing with a contract made by such
board or commission; or
            2.   Any elected city official.
         (b)   OFFICER does not mean volunteer firefighters or ambulance
drivers with respect to their duties as firefighters or ambulance drivers.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 49-1499.04 or 70-624.04, no
officer may have an interest in any contract to which his or her governing
body, or anyone for its benefit, is a party. The existence of such an interest
in any contract shall render the contract voidable by decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction as to any person who entered into the contract or took
assignment of the contract with actual knowledge of the prohibited conflict. An
action to have a contract declared void under this section may be brought by
the County Attorney, the governing body, or any resident within the
jurisdiction of the governing body and shall be brought within one year after
the contract is signed or assigned. The decree may provide for the
reimbursement of any person for the reasonable value of all money, goods,
material, labor, or services furnished under the contract, to the extent that
the governing body has benefitted thereby.
      (2)   The prohibition in this division (B) shall apply only when the
officer or his or her parent, spouse, or child:
         (a)   Has a business association with the business involved in the
contract; or
         (b)   Will receive a payment, fee, or commission as a result of the
contract.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply if the contract is an agenda item
approved at a meeting of the governing body and the interested officer:
      (1)   Makes a declaration on the record to the governing body responsible
for approving the contract regarding the nature and extent of his or her
interest prior to official consideration of the contract;
      (2)   Does not vote on the matters of granting the contract, making
payments pursuant to the contract, or accepting performance of work under the
contract, or similar matters relating to the contract, except that if the
number of members of the governing body declaring an interest in the contract
would prevent the body with all members present from securing a quorum on the
issue, then all members may vote on the matters; and
      (3)   Does not act for the governing body which is a party to the
contract as to inspection or performance under the contract in which he or she
has an interest.
   (D)   The receiving of deposits, cashing of checks, and buying and selling
of warrants and bonds of indebtedness of any such governing body by a financial
institution shall not be considered a contract for purposes of this section.
The ownership of less than 5% of the outstanding shares of a corporation shall
not constitute an interest within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   If an officer’s parent, spouse, or child is an employee of the
officer’s governing body, the officer may vote on all issues of the contract
which are generally applicable to all employees, or all employees within a
classification, and do not single out his or her parent, spouse, or child for
special action.
   (F)   Neb. RS 49-14,102 does not apply to contracts covered by this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.01)
   (G)   (1)   The person charged with keeping records for the governing body
shall maintain separately from other records a ledger containing the
information listed in divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) below about every
contract entered into by the governing body in which an officer of the body has
an interest and for which disclosure is made pursuant to division (C) above.
This information shall be kept in the ledger for five years from the date of
the officer’s last day in office and shall include:
         (a)   The names of the contracting parties;
         (b)   The nature of the interest of the officer in question;
         (c)   The date that the contract was approved by the governing body;
         (d)   The amount of the contract; and
         (e)   The basic terms of the contract.
      (2)   The information supplied relative to the contract shall be provided
no later than ten days after the contract has been signed by both parties. The
ledger kept pursuant to this division (G) shall be available for public
inspection during the normal working hours of the office in which it is kept.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.02)
   (H)   An open account established for the benefit of any governing body with
a business in which an officer has an interest shall be deemed a contract
subject to this section. The statement required to be filed by division (G)
above shall be filed within ten days after the account is opened. Thereafter,
the person charged with keeping records for the governing body shall maintain a
running account of amounts purchased on the open account. Purchases made from
petty cash or a petty cash fund shall not be subject to this section.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.03)
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (H) above, the governing body
may prohibit contracts over a specific dollar amount in which an officer of the
governing body may have an interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.05)
   (J)   The governing body may exempt from divisions (A) through (H) above,
contracts involving $100 or less in which an officer of that body may have an
interest.
(Neb. RS 49-14,103.06)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on conflicts of interest, see Neb. RS 18-305 through 18-312
and 49-1499.03 through 49-14,103
   Penalty for violation of restrictions on contracts, see Neb. RS 49-14,103.04
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 1-1301) (Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 34: ELECTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Generally
   
34.02   Notice
   
34.03   Registered voters; qualifications
   
34.04   Special elections
   
34.05   Election of officers; certifications required
   
34.06   Partisan ballot; when allowed; requirements
   
34.07   Candidate filing forms; deadlines; filing officer
   
34.08   Filing fee
   
34.09   Petition, write-in, and other candidates for general election ballot;
procedures
   
34.10   Recall procedure
   
34.11   Exit polls; poll watchers
Statutory reference:
   Election Act, see Neb. RS 32-101
§ 34.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All city issues and offices shall be combined on the statewide primary
and general election ballots whenever possible. The issuance of separate
ballots shall be avoided in a statewide election if city offices or issues can
reasonably be combined with the nonpartisan ballot and state law does not
require otherwise. All city elections involving the election of officers shall
be held in accordance with the Election Act and in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
(Neb. RS 32-556)
   (B)   When the city holds an election in conjunction with the statewide
primary or general election, the election shall be held as provided in the
Election Act. Any other election held by the city shall be held as provided in
the Election Act unless otherwise provided by the charter, code, or bylaws of
the city.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.02 NOTICE.
   The notice of election required to be published by the Election Commissioner
or County Clerk pursuant to Neb. RS 32-802 shall serve as the notice
requirement for all city elections which are held in conjunction with the
statewide primary or general election.
§ 34.03 REGISTERED VOTERS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGISTERED VOTER. An elector who has a current voter registration record
on file with the Election Commissioner or County Clerk in the county of his or
her residence.
(Neb. RS 32-115)
   (B)   All registered voters residing within the corporate limits of the city
on or before election day shall be entitled to vote at all city elections.
(Neb. RS 17-602)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of elector, see Neb. RS 32-110
§ 34.04 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 77-3444, any issue to be submitted
to the registered voters at a special election by the city shall be certified
by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk on or before the
eighth Friday prior to the election. A special election may be held by mail as
provided in Neb. RS 32-952 through 32-959. Any other special election under
this section shall be subject to division (B) below.
      (2)   In lieu of submitting the issue at a special election, the city may
submit the issue at a statewide primary or general election or at any scheduled
county election, except that no such issue shall be submitted at a statewide
election or scheduled county election unless the issue to be submitted has been
certified by the City Clerk to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk by
March 1 for the primary election and by September 1 for the general election.
      (3)   After the Election Commissioner or County Clerk has received the
certification of the issue to be submitted, he or she shall be responsible for
all matters relating to the submission of the issue to the registered voters,
except that the City Clerk shall be responsible for the publication or posting
of any required special notice of the submission of the issue other than the
notice required to be given of the statewide election issues. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare the ballots and issue ballots for
early voting and shall also conduct the submission of the issue, including the
receiving and counting of ballots on the issue. The election returns shall be
made to the Election Commissioner or County Clerk. The ballots shall be counted
and canvassed at the same time and in the same manner as the other ballots.
Upon completion of the canvass of the vote by the County Canvassing Board, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall certify the election results to the
City Council. The canvass by the County Canvassing Board shall have the same
force and effect as if made by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   A city that has submitted an issue for a special election under
subdivision (A)(1) above may cancel the special election if the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by
the political subdivision canceling the special election on or before the
fourth Thursday prior to the election. No cancellation shall be effective after
such date. If a special election is canceled in such manner, the city shall be
responsible for the costs incurred that are related to the canceled election.
Such costs shall include all chargeable costs as provided in Neb. RS 32-1202
associated with preparing for and conducting a special election.
      (2)   A city that has submitted an issue at a statewide primary or
general election or at any scheduled county election under division (A)(2)
above may withdraw the issue from the ballot if the Secretary of State,
Election Commissioner, or County Clerk receives a resolution adopted by the
city withdrawing the issue from the ballot no later than March 1 prior to a
statewide primary election or September 1 prior to a statewide general
election. No withdrawal shall be effective after such date. Any issue withdrawn
in this manner shall not be printed on the ballot.
(Neb. RS 32-559)
   (C)   Any special election under the Election Act shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the second Monday of the selected month unless otherwise
specifically provided. No special election shall be held under the Election Act
in April, May, June, October, November, or December of an even-numbered year
unless it is held in conjunction with the statewide primary or general
election. No special election shall be held under the Election Act in September
of an even-numbered year except for a special election by a political
subdivision pursuant to Neb. RS 13-519 or Neb. RS 77-3444 to approve a property
tax levy or exceed a property tax levy limitation.
(Neb. RS 32-405)
§ 34.05 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   No later than January 5 of each even-numbered year, the City Council shall
certify to the Secretary of State, the Election Commissioner, or the County
Clerk the name of the city, the number of officers to be elected, the length of
the terms of office, the vacancies to be filled by election and length of
remaining term, and the number of votes to be cast by a registered voter for
each office. The Secretary of State, Election Commissioner, and County Clerk
shall prescribe the forms to be used for certification to him or her.
(Neb. RS 32-404)
§ 34.06 PARTISAN BALLOT; WHEN ALLOWED; REQUIREMENTS.
   All elective city officers shall be nominated and elected on a nonpartisan
basis unless the city provides for a partisan ballot by ordinance. No ordinance
providing for nomination and election on a partisan ballot shall permit
affiliation with any party not recognized as a political party for purposes of
the Election Act. Such ordinance providing for nomination and election on a
partisan ballot shall be adopted and effective not less than 60 days prior to
the filing deadline.
(Neb. RS 32-557)
§ 34.07 CANDIDATE FILING FORMS; DEADLINES; FILING OFFICER.
   (A)   Any candidate may place his or her name on the primary election ballot
by filing a candidate filing form prescribed by the Secretary of State as
provided in division (B) below. If a candidate is an incumbent of any elective
office, the filing period for filing the candidate filing form shall be between
January 5 and February 15 prior to the date of the primary election. No
incumbent who resigns from elective office prior to the expiration of his or
her term shall file for any office after February 15 of that election year. All
other candidates shall file for office between January 5 and March 1 prior to
the date of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-606)
   (B)   Candidate filing forms shall be filed in the office of the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-607)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancy on ballot, see Neb. RS 32-625 and 32-627
   Withdrawal after filing, see Neb. RS 32-622
§ 34.08 FILING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, a filing fee shall be
paid to the City Treasurer by or on behalf of each candidate for city office
prior to filing for office. The fee shall be placed in the general fund of the
city. No candidate filing forms shall be filed until the proper payment or the
proper receipt showing the payment of such filing fee is presented to the
filing officer. On the day of the filing deadline, the City Treasurer’s office
shall remain open to receive filing fees until the hour of the filing deadline.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, the filing fee shall
be a sum equal to 1% of the annual salary as of November 30 of the year
preceding the election for the office for which he or she files as a candidate.
   (C)   All declared write-in candidates shall pay the filing fees that are
required for the office at the time that they present the write-in affidavit to
the filing officer.
   (D)   No filing fee shall be required for any candidate filing for an office
in which a per diem is paid rather than a salary or for which there is a salary
of less than $500 per year.
   (E)   (1)   No filing fee shall be required of any candidate completing an
affidavit requesting to file for elective office in forma pauperis.
      (2)    For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AVAILABLE RESOURCES. Includes every type of property or interest in
property that an individual owns and may convert into cash except:
            1.   Real property used as a home;
            2.   Household goods of a moderate value used in the home; and
            3.   Assets to a maximum value of $3,000 used by a recipient in a
planned effort directed towards self-support.
    PAUPER. A person whose income and other resources for maintenance are found
under assistance standards to be insufficient for meeting the cost of his or
her requirements and whose reserve of cash or other available resources does
not exceed the maximum available resources that an eligible individual may own.
   (F)   If any candidate dies prior to an election, the spouse of the
candidate may file a claim for refund of the filing fee with the City Council
prior to the date of the election. Upon approval of the claim by the City
Council, the filing fee shall be refunded.
(Neb. RS 32-608)
§ 34.09 PETITION, WRITE-IN, AND OTHER CANDIDATES FOR GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT;
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Any registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary
election and who was not registered to vote with a party affiliation on or
after March 1 and before the general election in the calendar year of the
general election may have his or her name placed on the general election ballot
for a partisan office by filing petitions as prescribed in this section and
Neb. RS 32-621 or by nomination by political party convention or committee
pursuant to Neb. RS 32-627 or 32-710.
      (2)   Any candidate who was defeated in the primary election and any
registered voter who was not a candidate in the primary election may have his
or her name placed on the general election ballot if a vacancy exists on the
ballot under Neb. RS 32-625(2) and the candidate files for the office by
petition as prescribed in divisions (B) and (C) below, files as a write-in
candidate as prescribed in Neb. RS 32-615, or is nominated by political party
convention or committee pursuant to Neb. RS 32-710.
(Neb. RS 32-616)
   (B)   Petitions for nomination shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-628. Petitions shall state the office to be filled and the name and address
of the candidate. Petitions for partisan office shall also indicate the party
affiliation of the candidate. A sample copy of the petition shall be filed with
the filing officer prior to circulation. Petitions shall be signed by
registered voters residing in the city, if candidates are chosen at large, or
in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, if candidates are chosen by
ward, and shall be filed with the filing officer in the same manner as provided
for candidate filing forms in §
34.07. Petition signers and petition circulators shall conform to the
requirements of Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630. No petition for nomination shall be
filed unless there is attached thereto a receipt showing the payment of the
filing fee required pursuant to Neb. RS 32-608. The petitions shall be filed by
September 1 in the year of the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-617)
   (C)   (1)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place
the name of a candidate upon the nonpartisan ballot for the general election
shall be at least 10% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election in the city or in the ward in which the officer is to be elected, not
to exceed 2,000.
      (2)   The number of signatures of registered voters needed to place the
name of a candidate for an office upon the partisan ballot for the general
election shall be as follows:
         (a)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of the entire state, at least 4,000, and at least 750 signatures shall be
obtained in each congressional district in the state;
         (b)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a county, at least 20% of the total number of registered voters voting for
Governor or President of the United States at the immediately preceding general
election within the county, not to exceed 2,000, except that the number of
signatures shall not be required to exceed 25% of the total number of
registered voters voting for the office at the immediately preceding general
election; and
         (c)   For each partisan office to be filled by the registered voters
of a political subdivision other than a county, at least 20% of the total
number of registered voters voting for Governor or President of the United
States at the immediately preceding general election within the political
subdivision, not to exceed 2,000.
(Neb. RS 32-618)
§ 34.10 RECALL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FILING CLERK. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk.
(Neb. RS 32-1301)
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor, any member of the City Council, and any other elected
official of the city may be removed from office by recall pursuant to this
section.
      (2)   The recall procedure and special election provisions of this
section shall apply to members of the City Council who are elected by ward.
Only registered voters of such member’s ward may sign a recall petition or vote
at the recall election. The recall election shall be held within the member’s
ward. When a member of the City Council is nominated by ward in the primary
election and elected at large in the general election, the recall provisions
shall apply to the registered voters at the general election.
(Neb. RS 32-1302)
   (C)   (1)   A petition demanding that the question of removing the Mayor, a
member of the City Council, or any other elected official be submitted to the
registered voters shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the total vote cast for that office in the last general election,
except that for City Council office for which more than one candidate is
chosen, the petition shall be signed by registered voters equal in number to at
least 35% of the number of votes cast for the person receiving the most votes
for such office in the last general election. The signatures shall be affixed
to petition papers and shall be considered part of the petition.
      (2)   Petition circulators shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS
32-629 and 32-630.
      (3)   The petition papers shall be procured from the filing clerk. Prior
to the issuance of such petition papers, a recall petition filing form shall be
signed and filed with the filing clerk by at least one registered voter. Such
voter or voters shall be deemed to be the principal circulator or circulators
of the recall petition. The filing form shall state the name and office of the
official sought to be removed, shall include in concise language of 60 words or
less the reason or reasons for which recall is sought, and shall request that
the filing clerk issue initial petition papers to the principal circulator for
circulation. The filing clerk shall notify the official sought to be removed by
any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if notification cannot be made
with reasonable diligence by any of the methods specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01,
by leaving a copy of the filing form at the official’s usual place of residence
and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s last-known address. If
the official chooses, he or she may submit a defense statement in concise
language of 60 words or less for inclusion on the petition. Any such defense
statement shall be submitted to the filing clerk within 20 days after the
official receives the copy of the filing form. The filing clerk shall prepare
the petition papers within five business days after receipt of the defense
statement. The principal circulator or circulators shall gather the petition
papers within 20 days after being notified by the filing clerk that the
petition papers are available. The filing clerk shall notify the principal
circulator or circulators that the necessary signatures must be gathered within
30 days from the date of issuing the petitions.
      (4)   The filing clerk, upon issuing the initial petition papers or any
subsequent petition papers, shall enter in a record, to be kept in his or her
office, the name of the principal circulator or circulators to whom the papers
were issued, the date of issuance, and the number of papers issued. The filing
clerk shall certify on the papers the name of the principal circulator or
circulators to whom the papers were issued and the date they were issued. No
petition paper shall be accepted as part of the petition unless it bears such
certificate. The principal circulator or circulators who check out petitions
from the filing clerk may distribute such petitions to persons who may act as
circulators of such petitions.
      (5)   Petition signers shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
629 and 32-630. Each signer of a recall petition shall be a registered voter
and qualified by his or her place of residence to vote for the office in
question.
(Neb. RS 32-1303)
   (D)   Each petition paper shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-
1304.
   (E)   (1)   The principal circulator or circulators shall file, as one
instrument, all petition papers comprising a recall petition for signature
verification with the filing clerk within 30 days after the filing clerk issues
the initial petition papers to the principal circulator or circulators as
provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Within 15 business days after the filing of the petition, the
filing clerk shall ascertain whether or not the petition is signed by the
requisite number of registered voters. No new signatures may be added after the
initial filing of the petition papers. No signatures may be removed unless the
filing clerk receives an affidavit signed by the person requesting his or her
signature be removed before the petitions are filed with the filing clerk for
signature verification. If the petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall attach to the petition a certificate showing the result of such
examination. If the requisite number of signatures has not been gathered, the
filing clerk shall file the petition in his or her office without prejudice to
the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
(Neb. RS 32-1305)
   (F)   (1)   If the recall petition is found to be sufficient, the filing
clerk shall notify the official whose removal is sought and the City Council
that sufficient signatures have been gathered. Notification of the official
sought to be removed may be by any method specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01 or, if
notification cannot be made with reasonable diligence by any of the methods
specified in Neb. RS 25-505.01, by leaving such notice at the official’s usual
place of residence and mailing a copy by first-class mail to the official’s
last-known address.
      (2)   The City Council shall, within 21 days after receipt of the
notification from the filing clerk pursuant to division (F)(1) above, order an
election. The date of the election shall be the first available date that
complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and that can be certified to the election
commissioner or county clerk at least 50 days prior to the election, except
that if any other election is to be held in the city within 90 days after such
notification, the City Council shall provide for the holding of the recall
election on the same day.
      (3)   All resignations shall be tendered as provided in Neb. RS 32-562.
If the official whose removal is sought resigns before the recall election is
held, the City Council may cancel the recall election if the City Council
notifies the election commissioner or county clerk of the cancellation on or
before the fourth Thursday prior to the election, otherwise the recall election
shall be held as scheduled.
      (4)   If a filing clerk is subject to a recall election, the Secretary of
State shall conduct the recall election.
(Neb. RS 32-1306)
   (G)   The form of the official ballot at a recall election held pursuant to
division (F) below shall conform to the requirements of Neb. RS 32-1307.
   (H)   (1)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are against
the removal of the official named on the ballot or the election results in a
tie, the official shall continue in office for the remainder of his or her term
but may be subject to further recall attempts as provided in division (I)
below.
      (2)   If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election are for the
removal of the official named on the ballot, he or she shall, regardless of any
technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed removed from office unless
a recount is ordered. If the official is deemed removed, the removal shall
result in a vacancy in the office which shall be filled as otherwise provided
in this section and Neb. RS 32-567 to 32-570 and 32-574.
      (3)   If the election results show a margin of votes equal to 1% or less
between the removal or retention of the official in question, the Secretary of
State, Election Commissioner, or County Clerk shall order a recount of the
votes cast unless the official named on the ballot files a written statement
with the filing clerk that he or she does not want a recount.
      (4)   If there are vacancies in the offices of one-half or more of the
members of the City Council or any other governing body at one time due to the
recall of such members, a special election to fill such vacancies shall be
conducted as expeditiously as possible by the Secretary of State, Election
Commissioner, or County Clerk.
      (5)   No official who is removed at a recall election or who resigns
after the initiation of the recall process shall be appointed to fill the
vacancy resulting from his or her removal or the removal of any other member of
the same governing body during the remainder of his or her term of office.
(Neb. RS 32-1308)
   (I)   No recall petition filing form shall be filed against an elected
official within 12 months after a recall election has failed to remove him or
her from office or within six months after the beginning of his or her term of
office or within six months prior to the incumbent filing deadline for the
office.
(Neb. RS 32-1309)
 § 34.11 EXIT POLLS; POLL WATCHERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct an exit poll, a public opinion poll, or any
other interview with voters on election day seeking to determine voter
preference within 20 feet of the entrance of any polling place or, if inside
the polling place or building, within 100 feet of any voting booth.
   (B)   (1)   No poll watcher shall interfere with any voter in the
preparation or casting of such voter’s ballot or prevent any election worker
from performing the worker’s duties.
      (2)   A poll watcher shall not provide assistance to a voter as described
in Neb. RS 32-918 unless selected by the voter to provide assistance as
provided in Neb. RS 32-918.
      (3)   A poll watcher shall not engage in electioneering as defined in
Neb. RS 32-1524 while engaged in observing at a polling place.
      (4)   A poll watcher shall maintain a distance of at least eight feet
from the sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot
box, and any ballots which have not been cast, except that if the polling place
is not large enough for a distance of eight feet, the judge of election shall
post a notice of the minimum distance the poll watcher must maintain from the
sign-in table, the sign-in register, the polling booths, the ballot box, and
any ballots which have not been cast. The posted notice shall be clearly
visible to the voters and shall be posted prior to the opening of the polls on
election day. The minimum distance shall not be determined to exclude a poll
watcher from being in the polling place.
(Neb. RS 32-1525) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Annual audit; financial statements
   
35.03   Contracts and purchases; bidding and other requirements
   
35.04   Orders or warrants for money; contracts; expenditures; requirements
   
35.05   Claims and accounts payable
   
35.06   Collection of special assessments; procedure
   
35.07   Special assessment fund
   
35.08   Sinking funds; gifts of money or property
   
35.09   Deposit of funds
   
35.10   Certificates of deposit; time deposits; conditions
   
35.11   Investment and use of surplus funds
   
35.12   Bond issues
   
35.13   Debt collection; authority to contract with collection agency
   
35.14   Credit cards; authority to accept
Annual Budget
   
35.25   Fiscal year
   
35.26   Budget procedures
   
35.27   Expenditures prior to adoption of budget
   
35.28   Proposed budget statement; contents; availability; correction
   
35.29   Proposed budget statement; hearing; adoption; certification of tax
amount
   
35.30   Adopted budget statement; filing; certification of tax amount
   
35.31   Appropriation bill
   
35.32   General Fund
   
35.33   Transfer of funds
   
35.34   Budget revision
   
35.35   Proprietary functions; fiscal year; budget statements; filing; hearing;
adoption; reconciliation
Tax Levies
   
35.50   Property tax levy for general revenue purposes
   
35.51   Levies for other taxes and special assessments
   
35.52   All-purpose levy; extraordinary levies; allocation; abandonment
   
35.53   Property tax levy; maximum; authority to exceed
   
35.54   Property tax levy; certification of amount; collection
   
35.55   Property tax request; procedure for setting
   
35.56   Property tax request; increase by more than allowable growth
percentage; procedure for setting
   
35.57   Motor vehicle fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIENNIAL BUDGET. A budget by the city that provides for a biennial period to
determine and carry on the city’s financial and taxing affairs.
   BIENNIAL PERIOD. The two fiscal years comprising a biennium, commencing in
odd-numbered or even-numbered years, used by the city in determining and
carrying on its financial and taxing affairs.
   PUBLIC FUNDS. All money, including non-tax money, used in the operation and
functions of governing bodies. If the city has a lottery established under the
State County and City Lottery Act, only those net proceeds which are actually
received by the city from a licensed lottery operator shall be considered
PUBLIC FUNDS, and PUBLIC FUNDS shall not include amounts awarded as prizes.
(Neb. RS 13-503)
§ 35.02 ANNUAL AUDIT; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ACCOUNTANT. A duly licensed public accountant or certified public
accountant who otherwise is not an employee of or connected in any way with the
city.
         ANNUAL AUDIT REPORT. The written report of the accountant and all
appended statements and schedules relating thereto presenting or recording the
findings of an examination or audit of the financial transactions, affairs, or
financial condition of the city and its proprietary functions for the fiscal
year immediately prior to the making of the ANNUAL REPORT.
         FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the city, or the fiscal year which is
established in Neb. RS 18-2804 for a proprietary function if different than the
city fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 19-2902)
      (2)   (a)   The City Council shall cause an audit of the city’s accounts
to be made by a recognized independent and qualified accountant as
expeditiously as possible following the close of the fiscal year and to cover
all financial transactions and affairs of the city for that preceding fiscal
year. The audit shall be made on a cash or accrual method at the discretion of
the City Council. The audit shall be completed and the annual audit report made
by the accountant shall be submitted within six months after the close of the
fiscal year in any event, unless an extension of time is granted by a written
resolution adopted by the City Council.
         (b)   If the city owns or operates any type of public utility or other
enterprise which substantially generates its own revenue, that phase of the
affairs of the city shall be audited separately from other functions of the
city, and the result shall appear separately in the annual audit report made by
the accountant to the city and such audit shall be on an accrual basis and
shall contain statements and materials which conform to generally accepted
accounting principles. For the utilities operated through the Board of Public
Works, the City Council may provide for an entirely separate audit, on an
accrual basis, of such operations and report and by a different accountant than
the one making the general audit.
(Neb. RS 19-2903)
      (3)   The annual audit report shall set forth, insofar as possible, the
financial position and results of financial operations for each fund or group
of accounts of the city. When the accrual method is selected for the annual
audit report, the report shall be in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The annual audit report shall also include the
professional opinion of the accountant with respect to the financial
statements, or, if an opinion cannot be expressed, a declaration that the
accountant is unable to express such an opinion with an explanation of the
reasons why he or she cannot do so.
(Neb. RS 19-2904)
      (4)   At least three copies of such annual audit report shall be properly
signed and attested by the accountant; two copies shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and one copy shall be filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
annual audit report filed, together with any accompanying comment or
explanation, shall become a part of the public records of the City Clerk and
shall at all times thereafter be open and subject to public inspection.
(Neb. RS 19-2905)
   (B)   The City Council shall provide and file with the City Clerk not later
than August 1 of each year financial statements showing the city’s actual and
budgeted figures for the most recently completed fiscal year.
(Neb. RS 13-606)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on audits, Neb. RS 19-2906 through 19-2909
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES; BIDDING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01 for a contract with a public
power district to operate, renew, replace, or add to the electric distribution,
transmission, or generation system of the city, no contract for enlargement or
general improvements, such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems,
bridges, work on streets, or any other work or improvement, when the cost of
the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the property, costing over
$30,000 shall be made unless it is first approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 18-412.01, before the City Council makes
any contract in excess of $30,000 for enlargements or general improvements,
such as water extensions, sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on
streets, or any other work or improvement when the cost of the enlargement or
improvement is assessed to the property, an estimate of the cost shall be made
by the City Engineer and submitted to the City Council. In advertising for bids
as provided in divisions (C) and (E) below, the City Council may publish the
amount of the estimate.
   (C)   Advertisements for bids shall be required for any contract costing
over $30,000 entered into:
      (1)   For enlargements or general improvements, such as water extensions,
sewers, public heating systems, bridges, work on streets, or any other work or
improvement when the cost of the enlargement or improvement is assessed to the
property; or
      (2)   For the purchase of equipment used in the construction of the
enlargements or general improvements.
   (D)   A city electric utility may enter into a contract for the enlargement
or improvement of the electric system or for the purchase of equipment used for
the enlargement or improvement without advertising for bids if the price is:
      (1)   Thirty thousand dollars or less;
      (2)   Sixty thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $1,000,000;
      (3)   Ninety thousand dollars or less and the city electric utility has
gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of $5,000,000; or
      (4)   One hundred and twenty thousand dollars or less and the city
electric utility has gross annual revenue from retail sales in excess of
$10,000,000.
   (E)   The advertisement provided for in division (C) above shall be
published at least seven days prior to the bid closing in a legal newspaper in
or of general circulation in the city. In case of a public emergency resulting
from infectious or contagious diseases, destructive windstorms, floods, snow,
war, or an exigency or pressing necessity or unforeseen need calling for
immediate action or remedy to prevent a serious loss of or serious injury or
damage to life, health, or property, estimates of costs and advertising for
bids may be waived in the emergency ordinance authorized by Neb. RS 17-613 when
adopted by a three-fourths vote of the City Council and entered of record.
   (F)   If, after advertising for bids as provided in this section, the City
Council receives fewer than two bids on a contract or if the bids received by
the City Council contain a price which exceeds the estimated cost, the City
Council may negotiate a contract in an attempt to complete the proposed
enlargements or general improvements at a cost commensurate with the estimate
given.
   (G)   If the materials are of such a nature that, in the opinion of the
manufacturer and with the concurrence of the City Council or Board of Public
Works, no cost can be estimated until the materials have been manufactured or
assembled to the specific qualifications of the city, the City Council or Board
of Public Works may authorize the manufacture and assemblage of those materials
and may thereafter approve the estimated cost expenditure when it is provided
by the manufacturer.
(Neb. RS 17-568.01)
   (H)   Any city bidding procedure may be waived by the City Council or Board
of Public Works:
      (1)   When materials or equipment are purchased at the same price and
from the same seller as materials or equipment which have formerly been
obtained pursuant to the state bidding procedure in Neb. RS 81-145 through 81-
162;
      (2)   When the contract is negotiated directly with a sheltered workshop
pursuant to Neb. RS 48-1503; or
      (3)   When required to comply with any federal grant, loan, or program.
(Neb. RS 17-568.02)
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law or a home rule
charter, a city which has established, by an interlocal agreement with any
county, a joint purchasing division or agency may purchase personal property
without competitive bidding if the price for the property has been established
by the federal General Services Administration or the materiel division of the
Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (I), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, supplies,
materials, and equipment used by or furnished to any officer, office,
department, institution, board, or other agency.
         PURCHASING or PURCHASE. The obtaining of personal property by sale,
lease, or other contractual means.
(Neb. RS 18-1756)
Statutory reference:
   Requirements for public lettings, see Neb. RS 73-101 et seq.
§ 35.04 ORDERS OR WARRANTS FOR MONEY; CONTRACTS; EXPENDITURES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall have no power to appropriate, issue,
or draw any order or warrant on the City Treasurer for money unless the same
has been appropriated or ordered by ordinance, or the claim for the payment of
which such order or warrant is issued has been allowed according to the
provisions of §
35.05, and funds for the class or object out of which such claim is payable
have been included in the adopted budget statement or transferred according to
law.
(Neb. RS 17-708)
   (B)   No contract shall be hereafter made by the City Council, or any
committee or member, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditures shall have been
ordered by the City Council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as otherwise expressly provided
in division (A) above.
(Neb. RS 17-709)
   (C)   All warrants drawn upon the City Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor
and countersigned by the City Clerk, stating the particular fund to which the
same is chargeable, the person to whom payable, and for what particular object.
No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrants so drawn. Each warrant
shall specify the amount included in the adopted budget statement for such fund
upon which it is drawn and the amount already expended of such fund.
(Neb. RS 17-711)
§ 35.05 CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE.
   (A)   (1)   All liquidated and unliquidated claims and accounts payable
against the city shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   State the name and address of the claimant and the amount of the
claim; and
         (c)   Fully and accurately identify the items or services for which
payment is claimed or the time, place, nature, and circumstances giving rise to
the claim.
      (2)   As a condition precedent to maintaining an action for a claim,
other than a tort claim as defined in Neb. RS 13-903, the claimant shall file
such claim within 90 days of the accrual of the claim in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall notify the claimant or his or her agent or
attorney by letter mailed to the claimant’s address within five days if the
claim is disallowed by the City Council.
      (4)   No costs shall be recovered against the city in any action brought
against it for any claim, or for any claim allowed in part, which has not been
presented to the City Council to be audited unless the recovery is for a
greater sum than the amount allowed with the interest due.
(Neb. RS 17-714)
   (B)   Upon the allowance of claims by the City Council, the order for their
payment shall specify the particular fund or appropriation out of which they
are payable as specified in the adopted budget statement, and no order or
warrant shall be drawn in excess of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for
which it is drawn, unless there is sufficient money in the treasury at the
credit of the proper fund for its payment; provided that if there exists, at
the time such warrant is drawn, obligated funds from the federal government or
the state, or both from the federal government and the state, for the general
purpose or purposes of such warrant, then such warrant may be drawn in excess
of 85% of the current levy for the purpose for which it is drawn to the
additional extent of 100% of such obligated federal or state funds. No claim
shall be audited or allowed unless an order or warrant for the payment thereof
may legally be drawn.
(Neb. RS 17-715)
§ 35.06 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have authority to collect the special assessments which
it levies and to perform all other necessary functions related thereto,
including foreclosure.
   (B)   The City Council of any city collecting its own special assessments
shall direct that notice that special assessments are due shall be mailed or
otherwise delivered to the last known address of the person against whom those
special assessments are assessed or to the lending institution or other party
responsible for paying those special assessments. Failure to receive the notice
shall not relieve the taxpayer from any liability to pay the special
assessments and any interest or penalties accrued thereon.
   (C)   A city collecting its own assessments shall:
      (1)   File notice of the assessments and the amount of assessment being
levied for each lot or tract of land to the Register of Deeds; and
      (2)   File a release of assessment upon final payment of each assessment
with the Register of Deeds.
(Neb. RS 18-1216)
Statutory reference:
   Refunding erroneously paid special assessments, see Neb. RS 17-703
§ 35.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND.
   All money received on special assessments shall be held by the City
Treasurer as a special fund, to be applied to the payment of the improvement
for which the assessment was made, and this money shall be used for no other
purpose whatever unless to reimburse the city for money expended for any such
improvement.
(Neb. RS 17-710)
§ 35.08 SINKING FUNDS; GIFTS OF MONEY OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   The city is hereby empowered to receive money or property by donation,
bequest, gift, devise, or otherwise for the benefit of any one or more of the
public purposes for which sinking funds are established by this section, as
stipulated by the donor. Title to any money or property so donated shall vest
in the City Council, or in its successors in office, who shall become the
owners thereof in trust to the uses of the sinking fund or funds. In the event
of a donation of real estate, the City Council may manage such real estate as
in the case of real estate donated to the city for city library purposes under
the provisions of Neb. RS 51-215 and 51-216.
(Neb. RS 19-1301)
   (B)   The City Council, subject to all the limitations set forth in this
section, shall have the power to levy a tax of not to exceed $0.105 on each
$100 in any one year upon the taxable value of all the taxable property within
the city for a term of not to exceed ten years, in addition to the amount of
tax which may be annually levied for the purposes of the adopted budget
statement of the city, for the purpose of establishing a sinking fund for the
construction, purchase, improvement, extension, original equipment, or repair,
not including maintenance, of any one or more of the following public
improvements, including acquisition of any land incident to the making thereof:
city libraries; city auditoriums or community houses for social or recreational
purposes; city halls; city public libraries, auditoriums, or community houses
in a single building; city swimming pools; city jails; city fire stations,
together with firefighting equipment or apparatus; city parks; city cemeteries;
city medical buildings, together with furnishings and equipment; or city
hospitals. The city shall not be authorized to levy the tax or to establish the
sinking fund as provided in this division (B) if, having bonded indebtedness,
such city has been in default in the payment of interest thereon or principal
thereof for a period of ten years prior to the date of the passage of the
resolution providing for the submission of the proposition for establishment of
the sinking fund as required in division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 19-1302)
   (C)   Before any sinking fund or funds are established or before any annual
tax is levied for any such planned city improvements mentioned in division (B)
below by the city, the City Council shall declare its purpose by resolution to
submit to the qualified electors of the city at the next general city election
the proposition to provide the city with the specific city improvement planned
under this section. The resolution of submission shall, among other things, set
forth a clear description of the improvement planned, the estimated cost
according to the prevailing costs, the amount of annual levy over a definite
period of years, not exceeding ten years, required to provide such cost, and
the specific name or designation for the sinking fund sought to be established
to carry out the planned improvement, together with a statement of the
proposition for placement upon the ballot at the election. Notice of the
submission of the proposition, together with a copy of the official ballot
containing the proposition, shall be published in its entirety three successive
weeks before the day of the election in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation in the city or, if no legal newspaper is in or of general
circulation in the city, in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in
the county in which the city is located. No such sinking fund shall be
established unless the same has been authorized by a majority or more of the
legal votes of the city cast for or against the proposition. If less than a
majority of the legal votes favor establishment of the sinking fund, the
planned improvement shall not be made, no annual tax shall be levied therefor,
and no sinking fund or sinking funds shall be established in connection
therewith, but such resolution of submission shall immediately be repealed. If
the proposition shall carry at such election in the manner prescribed in this
division (C), the City Council and its successors in office shall proceed to do
all things authorized under such resolution of submission but never
inconsistent with this section. The election provided for under this section
shall be conducted as provided under the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 19-1303)
   (D)   All funds received by the City Treasurer, by donation or by tax levy,
as hereinbefore provided shall, as they accumulate, be immediately invested by
the Treasurer, with the written approval of the City Council, in the manner
provided in §
35.11. Whenever investments of such sinking fund or funds are made, as
aforesaid, the nature and character of the same shall be reported to the City
Council, and the investment report shall be made a matter of record by the City
Clerk in the proceedings of the City Council. The sinking fund, or sinking
funds, accumulated under the provisions of this section shall constitute a
special fund, or funds, for the purpose or purposes for which the same was
authorized and shall not be used for any other purpose unless authorized by 60%
of the qualified electors of the city voting at a general election favoring
such change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds. The question of
the change in the use of the sinking fund or sinking funds, when it fails to
carry, shall not be resubmitted in substance for a period of one year from and
after the date of such election.
(Neb. RS 19-1304)
Statutory reference:
   Additional levy limitations, see Neb. RS 17-702
   Investment in warrants, see Neb. RS 77-2337
§ 35.09 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Treasurer shall deposit, and at all times keep on
deposit, for safekeeping in banks, capital stock financial institutions, or
qualifying mutual financial institutions of approved and responsible standing,
all money collected, received, or held by him or her as City Treasurer. These
deposits shall be subject to all regulations imposed by law or adopted by the
City Council for the receiving and holding thereof. The fact that a
stockholder, director, or other officer of the bank, capital stock financial
institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution is also serving as
Mayor, a member of the City Council, as a member of the Board of Public Works,
or as any other officer of the city shall not disqualify the bank, capital
stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual financial institution from
acting as a depository for the city funds.
      (2)   The City Council shall require from all banks, capital stock
financial institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions a bond in
such penal sum as may be the maximum amount on deposit at any time, less the
amount insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or,
in lieu thereof, security given as provided in the Public Funds Deposit
Security Act, to secure the payment of all such deposits and accretions. The
City Council shall approve this bond or giving of security. The City Treasurer
shall not be liable for any loss of any money sustained by reason of the
failure of any such depository so designated and approved.
(Neb. RS 17-607)
   (B)   The insurance afforded to depositors in banks, capital stock financial
institutions, or qualifying mutual financial institutions through the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall be deemed and construed to be a surety bond
or bonds to the extent that the deposits are insured or guaranteed by that
corporation, and for deposits so insured or guaranteed, no other surety bond or
bonds or other security shall be required.
(Neb. RS 77-2362)
   (C)   (1)   Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock
financial institutions.
      (2)   Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-607 and 77-2362)
Statutory reference:
   Other provisions on deposits of public funds, see Neb. RS 77-2363 and 77-
2364
   Public Funds Deposit Security Act, see Neb. RS 77-2386
§ 35.10 CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; TIME DEPOSITS; CONDITIONS.
   The City Treasurer may, upon resolution of the Mayor and City Council
authorizing the same, purchase certificates of deposit from and make time
deposits in any bank, capital stock financial institution, or qualifying mutual
financial institution in the state to the extent that those certificates of
deposit or time deposits are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Deposits may be made in excess of the amounts so secured
by the corporation, and the amount of the excess deposit shall be secured by a
bond or by security given in the same manner as is provided for cities of the
first class in Neb. RS 16-714 through 16-716 as of the time the deposit is
made. Neb. RS 77-2366 shall apply to deposits in capital stock financial
institutions. Neb. RS 77-2365.01 shall apply to deposits in qualifying mutual
financial institutions.
(Neb. RS 17-720)
§ 35.11 INVESTMENT AND USE OF SURPLUS FUNDS.
   (A)   When the City Treasurer holds funds of the city in excess of the
amount required for maintenance or set aside for betterments and improvements,
the Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize the
Treasurer to invest the surplus funds in the outstanding bonds or registered
warrants of the city, bonds and debentures issued either singly or collectively
by any of the 12 federal land banks, the 12 intermediate credit banks, or the
13 banks for cooperatives under the supervision of the Farm Credit
Administration, or in interest-bearing bonds or the obligations of the United
States. The interest on such bonds or warrants shall be credited to the fund
out of which the bonds or warrants were purchased.
(Neb. RS 17-608)
   (B)   All income received by the city from public utilities and from the
payment and collection of water taxes, rents, rates or assessments shall be
applied to the payment of running expenses, interest on bonds or money borrowed
and the erection and construction of public utilities; should there be any
surplus, it shall be annually created into a sinking fund for the payment of
public utility bonds or for improvements of the works, or into the General Fund
as the Council may direct. The surplus remaining, if any, may, if the Council
so directs, be invested in interest-bearing bonds or obligations of the United
States.
(Neb. RS 17-540)
   (C)   The Mayor and City Council may, by resolution, direct and authorize
the Treasurer to dispose of the surplus electric light, water, or gas funds, or
the funds arising from the sale of electric light, water, or natural gas
distribution properties, by the payment of outstanding electric light, water,
or gas distribution bonds or water warrants then due. The excess, if any, after
such payments may be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-609)
   (D)   Any surplus funds arising out of the operation of any system of
waterworks, power plant, ice plant, gas plant, sewerage, heating or lighting
plant, or distribution system by the Board of Public Works, or by the City
Council where any of such utilities are not being operated by such a Board, may
be invested, if not invested pursuant to the provisions of any other law upon
the subject, in like manner and subject to the same conditions as the
investment of similar funds of cities of the first class, as provided in Neb.
RS 16-691.01.
(Neb. RS 17-803)
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the city has accumulated a surplus of any fund in
excess of its current needs or has accumulated a sinking fund for the payment
of its bonds and the money in such sinking fund exceeds the amount necessary to
pay the principal and interest of any such bonds which become due during the
current year, the City Council may invest any such surplus in excess of current
needs or such excess in its sinking fund in certificates of deposit, in time
deposits, and in any securities in which the State Investment Officer is
authorized to invest pursuant to the State Capital Expansion Act and the State
Funds Investment Act and as provided in the authorized investment guidelines of
the State Investment Council in effect on the date the investment is made. The
State Investment Officer shall, upon request, furnish a copy of current
authorized investment guidelines of the State Investment Council.
      (2)   Nothing in division (E)(1) above shall be construed to authorize
investments in venture capital.
(Neb. RS 77-2341)
§ 35.12 BOND ISSUES.
   The City Council may, after meeting all the requirements of state law, issue
bonds, fund bonds, and retire bonds for such purposes as may be permitted by
state law. The City Council shall have the authority to levy special
assessments for the payment of interest and principal on these bonds and may
spread the payments up to the maximum number of years permitted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds in general, see Neb. RS 18-1801 through 18-1805
   Funding and refunding bonds, see Neb. RS 10-606 through 10-612
   General provisions, see Neb. RS 10-101 through 10-143
§ 35.13 DEBT COLLECTION; AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT WITH COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The city may contract to retain a collection agency licensed pursuant
to the Collection Agency Act, within or without this state, for the purpose of
collecting public debts owed by any person to the city.
   (B)   No debt owed pursuant to division (A) above may be assigned to a
collection agency unless:
      (1)   There has been an attempt to advise the debtor by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, at the last known address of the debtor:
         (a)   Of the existence of the debt; and
         (b)   That the debt may be assigned to a collection agency for
collection if the debt is not paid.
      (2)   At least 30 days have elapsed from the time the notice was sent.
   (C)   A collection agency which is assigned a debt under this section shall
have only those remedies and powers which would be available to it as an
assignee of a private creditor.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, DEBT shall include all delinquent
fees or payments except delinquent property taxes on real estate. In the case
of debt arising as a result of an order or judgment of a court in a criminal or
traffic matter, a collection fee may be added to the debt. The collection fee
shall be $25 or 4.5% of the debt, whichever is greater. The collection fee
shall be paid by the person who owes the debt directly to the person or agency
providing the collection service.
(Neb. RS 45-623)
§ 35.14 CREDIT CARDS; AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT.
   (A)   If authorized by the City Council, any city official may accept credit
cards, charge cards, or debit cards, whether presented in person or
electronically, or electronic funds transfers as a method of cash payment of
any tax, levy, excise, duty, custom, toll, interest, penalty, fine, license,
fee, or assessment of whatever kind or nature, whether general or special, as
provided by Neb. RS 77-1702.
   (B)   The total amount of the taxes, levies, excises, duties, customs,
tolls, interest, penalties, fines, licenses, fees, or assessments of whatever
kind or nature, whether general or special, paid for by credit card, charge
card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer shall be collected by the city
official.
   (C)   With respect to a facility which it operates in a proprietary
capacity, the City Council may choose to accept credit cards, charge cards, or
debit cards, whether presented in person or electronically, or electronic funds
transfers as a means of cash payment and may adjust the price for services to
reflect the handling and payment costs.
   (D)   The city official shall obtain, for each transaction, authorization
for use of any credit card, charge card, or debit card used pursuant to this
section from the financial institution, vending service company, credit card or
charge card company, or third-party merchant bank providing that service.
   (E)   (1)   The types of credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards accepted
and the payment services provided shall be determined by the State Treasurer
and the Director of Administrative Services, with the advice of a committee
convened by the State Treasurer and the Director. The Committee shall consist
of the State Treasurer, the Tax Commissioner, the Director, and representatives
from counties, cities, and other political subdivisions as may be appropriate.
      (2)   The Committee shall develop recommendations for the contracting of
such services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall contract with one or
more credit card, charge card, or debit card companies or third-party merchant
banks for services on behalf of the state and those counties, cities, and
political subdivisions that choose to participate in the state contract for
such services. The State Treasurer and the Director shall consider, for the
purpose of this section, any negotiated discount, processing, or transaction
fee imposed by a credit card, charge card, or debit card company or third-party
merchant bank as an administrative expense.
      (3)   If the City Council chooses not to participate in the state
contract, it may choose the types of credit cards, charge cards, and debit
cards and may negotiate and contract independently or collectively as a
governmental entity with one or more financial institutions, vending service
companies, credit card, charge card, or debit card companies, or third-party
merchant banks for the provision of these services.
   (F)   Subject to the direction of the City Council, a city official
authorizing the acceptance of credit card or charge card payments shall be
authorized but not required to impose a surcharge or convenience fee upon the
person making a payment by credit card or charge card so as to wholly or
partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to
the city, but the surcharge or convenience fee shall not exceed the surcharge
or convenience fee imposed by the credit card or charge card companies or
third-party merchant banks which have contracted under division (E) above. The
surcharge or convenience fee shall be applied only when allowed by the
operating rules and regulations of the credit card or charge card involved or
when authorized in writing by the credit card or charge card company involved.
When a person elects to make a payment to the city by credit card or charge
card and such a surcharge or convenience fee is imposed, the payment of the
surcharge or convenience fee shall be deemed voluntary by that person and shall
be in no case refundable. If a payment is made electronically by credit card,
charge card, debit card, or electronic funds transfer as part of a system for
providing or retrieving information electronically, the city official shall be
authorized but not required to impose an additional surcharge or convenience
fee upon the person making a payment.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER. The movement of funds by nonpaper means,
usually through a payment system, including, but not limited to, an automated
clearinghouse or the Federal Reserve’s Fedwire System.
(Neb. RS 13-609)
ANNUAL BUDGET
§ 35.25 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and any public utility of the city commences on
October 1 and extends through the following September 30, except as provided in
the Municipal Proprietary Function Act.
(Neb. RS 17-701)
§ 35.26 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The budget instruction manual prepared by the Auditor of Public Accounts is
incorporated by reference for the purpose of proper budget preparation.
§ 35.27 EXPENDITURES PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   On and after the first day of its fiscal year in 1993 and of each
succeeding year or on or after the first day of its biennial period, and until
the adoption of the budget by the City Council in September, the City Council
may expend any balance of cash on hand for the current expenses of the city.
Except as provided in division (B) below, these expenditures shall not exceed
an amount equivalent to the total amount expended under the last budget in the
equivalent period of the prior budget year or biennial period. These
expenditures shall be charged against the appropriations for each individual
fund or purpose as provided in the budget when adopted.
(Neb. RS 13-509.01)
   (B)   The restriction on expenditures in division (A) above may be exceeded
upon the express finding of the City Council that expenditures beyond the
amount authorized are necessary to enable the city to meet its statutory duties
and responsibilities. The finding and approval of the expenditures in excess of
the statutory authorization shall be adopted by the City Council in open public
session. Expenditures authorized by this section shall be charged against
appropriations for each individual fund or purpose as provided in the budget
when adopted, and nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
expenditures by the city in excess of that authorized by any other statutory
provision.
(Neb. RS 13-509.02)
§ 35.28 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; CONTENTS; AVAILABILITY; CORRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall annually or biennially prepare a proposed
budget statement on forms prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public
Accounts. The proposed budget statement shall be made available to the public
prior to publication of the notice of the hearing on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to §
35.29.
      (2)   A proposed budget statement shall contain the following
information, except as provided by state law:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year or biennial period,
the revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than revenue
received from personal and real property taxation, allocated to the funds and
separately stated as to each such source: the unencumbered cash balance at the
beginning and end of the year or biennial period; the amount received by
taxation of personal and real property; and the amount of actual expenditures;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year or biennial period, actual and
estimated revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, allocated to
the funds and separately stated as to each such source: the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year or biennial period; the
amount received from personal and real property taxation; and the amount of
actual and estimated expenditures, whichever is applicable. This statement
shall contain the cash reserve for each fiscal year or biennial period and
shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash reserve
projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years or
biennial periods. The cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the total budget
adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, an
estimate of revenue from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other than
revenue to be received from the taxation of personal and real property,
separately stated as to each such source: the actual or estimated unencumbered
cash balances, whichever is applicable, to be available at the beginning of the
year or biennial period; the amounts proposed to be expended during the year or
biennial period; and the amount of cash reserve, based on actual experience of
prior years or biennial period, which cash reserve shall not exceed 50% of the
total budget adopted exclusive of capital outlay items;
         (d)   A statement setting out separately the amount sought to be
raised from the levy of a tax on the taxable value of real property:
            1.   For the purpose of paying the principal or interest on bonds
issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters of
the political subdivision; and
            2.   For all other purposes.
         (e)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, including
each proprietary function fund included in a separate proprietary budget
statement prepared pursuant to the Municipal Proprietary Function Act, and a
grand total of all funds maintained by the City Council; and
      (6)   A list of the proprietary functions which are not included in the
budget statement. These proprietary functions shall have a separate budget
statement which is approved by the City Council as provided in the Municipal
Proprietary Function Act.
   (B)   The actual or estimated unencumbered cash balance required to be
included in the budget statement by this section shall include deposits and
investments of the city as well as any funds held by the County Treasurer for
the city and shall be accurately stated on the proposed budget statement.
   (C)   The city shall correct any material errors in the budget statement
detected by the Auditor of Public Accounts or by other sources.
(Neb. RS 13-504)
   (D)   The estimated expenditures plus the required cash reserve for the
ensuing fiscal year or biennial period, less all estimated and actual
unencumbered balances at the beginning of the year or biennial period, and less
the estimated income from all sources, including motor vehicle taxes, other
than taxation of personal and real property, shall equal the amount to be
received from taxes, and that amount shall be shown on the proposed budget
statement pursuant to this section. The amount to be raised from taxation of
personal and real property, as determined above, plus the estimated revenue
from other sources, including motor vehicle taxes, and the unencumbered
balances shall equal the estimated expenditures, plus the necessary required
cash reserve, for the ensuing year or biennial period.
(Neb. RS 13-505)
§ 35.29 PROPOSED BUDGET STATEMENT; HEARING; ADOPTION; CERTIFICATION OF TAX
AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall each year or biennial period conduct a
public hearing on its proposed budget statement. Such hearing shall be held
separately from any regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body and shall
not be limited by time.
      (2)   Notice of the place and time of the hearing, together with a
summary of the proposed budget statement, shall be published four calendar days
prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within
the city’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such notice, the four calendar
days shall include the day of publication but not the day of the hearing. When
the total operating budget, not including reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per
year or $20,000 per biennial period, the proposed budget summary may be posted
at the City Council’s principal headquarters. At such hearing, the governing
body shall make at least three copies of the proposed budget statement
available to the public and shall make a presentation outlining key provisions
of the proposed budget statement, including, but not limited to, a comparison
with the prior year’s budget. Any member of the public desiring to speak on the
proposed budget statement shall be allowed to address the governing body at the
hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
   (B)   After the hearing, the proposed budget statement shall be adopted, or
amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be kept of the
hearing. The amount to be received from personal and real property taxation
shall be certified to the levying board after the proposed budget statement is
adopted or is amended and adopted as amended. The certification of the amount
to be received from personal and real property taxation shall specify
separately the amount to be applied to the payment of principal or interest on
bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal voters
of the political subdivision and the amount to be received for all other
purposes.
   (C)   If the adopted budget statement reflects a change from that shown in
the published proposed budget statement, a summary of the changes shall be
published within 20 calendar days after its adoption in the manner provided in
this section, but without provision for hearing, setting forth the items
changed and the reasons for the changes.
   (D)   Upon approval by the City Council, the budget shall be filed with the
Auditor of Public Accounts. The Auditor may review the budget for errors in
mathematics, improper accounting, and noncompliance with the State Budget Act
or Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522. If the Auditor detects such errors, he or she
shall immediately notify the Council of such errors. The Council shall correct
any such error as provided in §
35.34. Warrants for the payment of expenditures provided in the budget adopted
under this section shall be valid notwithstanding any errors or noncompliance
for which the Auditor has notified the Council.
(Neb. RS 13-506)
   (E)   When a levy increase has been authorized by vote of the electors, the
adopted budget statement shall indicate the amount of the levy increase.
(Neb. RS 13-507)
§ 35.30 ADOPTED BUDGET STATEMENT; FILING; CERTIFICATION OF TAX AMOUNT.
   (A)   (1)   After publication and hearing on the proposed budget statement
and within the time prescribed by law, the City Council shall file with and
certify to the levying board or boards on or before September 30 of each year,
or September 30 of the final year of a biennial period, and file with the
Auditor of Public Accounts a copy of the adopted budget statement which
complies with Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, together with the amount of the
tax required to fund the adopted budget, setting out separately:
         (a)   The amount to be levied for the payment of principal or interest
on bonds issued or authorized to be issued by the City Council or the legal
voters of the political subdivision; and
         (b)   The amount to be levied for all other purposes.
      (2)   Proof of publication shall be attached to the statements.
   (B)   If the prime rate published by the Federal Reserve Board is 10% or
more at the time of the filing and certification required under this section,
the City Council, in certifying the amount required, may make allowance for
delinquent taxes not exceeding 5% of the amount required, plus the actual
percentage of delinquent taxes for the preceding tax year or biennial period,
and for the amount of estimated tax loss from any pending or anticipated
litigation which involves taxation and in which tax collections have been or
can be withheld or escrowed by court order. For the purpose of this section,
ANTICIPATED LITIGATION shall be limited to the anticipation of an action being
filed by a taxpayer who or which filed a similar action for the preceding year
or biennial period which is still pending. Except for such allowances, the City
Council shall not certify an amount of tax more than 1% greater or lesser than
the amount determined under §
35.28.
   (C)   The City Council shall use the certified taxable values as provided by
the County Assessor pursuant to Neb. RS 13-509 for the current year in setting
or certifying the levy. The City Council may designate one of its members to
perform any duty or responsibility required of the Council by this section.
(Neb. RS 13-508)
§ 35.31 APPROPRIATION BILL.
   The City Council shall adopt a budget statement pursuant to the State Budget
Act, to be termed “The Annual Appropriation Bill,” in which the Council may
appropriate those sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Neb. RS 17-706)
§ 35.32 GENERAL FUND.
   If the city has not decided to follow the all-purpose levy method of
financing for the fiscal year, all money not specifically appropriated in the
annual appropriation bill shall be deposited in and known as the General Fund.
§ 35.33 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes apparent to the
City Council that due to unforeseen emergencies, there is temporarily
insufficient money in a particular fund to meet the requirements of the adopted
budget of expenditures for that fund, the Council may by a majority vote,
unless otherwise provided by state law, transfer money from other funds to such
fund.
   (B)   No expenditure during any fiscal year shall be made in excess of the
amounts indicated in the adopted budget statement, except as authorized in §
35.34 or by state law.
   (C)   Any officer or officers of the City Council who obligate funds
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 13-510) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.34 BUDGET REVISION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Council may propose
to revise the previously adopted budget statement and shall conduct a public
hearing on that proposal whenever during the current fiscal year it becomes
apparent to the City Council that:
         (a)   There are circumstances which could not reasonably have been
anticipated at the time the budget for the current year was adopted;
         (b)   The budget adopted violated Neb. RS 13-518 through 13-522, such
that the revenue of the current fiscal year for any fund thereof will be
insufficient, additional expenses will be necessarily incurred, or there is a
need to reduce the budget requirements to comply with Neb. RS 13-518 through
13-522; or
         (c)   The City Council has been notified by the Auditor of Public
Accounts of a mathematical or accounting error or noncompliance with the State
Budget Act.
      (2)   The public hearing requirement shall not apply to emergency
expenditures pursuant to Neb. RS 81-829.51.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published
at least four calendar days prior to the date set for hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Council’s jurisdiction. For the purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of hearing.
      (2)   This published notice shall set forth:
         (a)   The time and place of the hearing;
         (b)   The amount in dollars of additional or reduced money required
and for what purpose;
         (c)   A statement setting forth the nature of the unanticipated
circumstances and, if the budget requirements are to be increased, the reasons
why the previously adopted budget of expenditures cannot be reduced during the
remainder of the current year so as to meet the need for additional money in
that manner;
         (d)   A copy of the summary of the originally adopted budget
previously published; and
         (e)   A copy of the summary of the proposed revised budget.
   (C)   At the hearing, any taxpayer may appear or file a written statement
protesting any application for additional money. A written record shall be kept
of all such hearings.
   (D)   Upon conclusion of the public hearing on the proposed revised budget
and approval of the proposed revised budget by the City Council, the Council
shall file with the county clerk of the county or counties in which the City
Council is located, and with the Auditor of Public Accounts, a copy of the
revised budget as adopted. The City Council may then issue warrants in payment
for expenditures authorized by the adopted revised budget. These warrants shall
be referred to as registered warrants and shall be repaid during the next
fiscal year from funds derived from taxes levied therefor.
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 days after the adoption of the budget under §
35.29, the City Council may, or within 30 days after notification of an error
by the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Council shall, correct an adopted budget
which contains a clerical, mathematical, or accounting error which does not
affect the total amount budgeted by more than 1% or increase the amount
required from property taxes. No public hearing shall be required for such a
correction.
      (2)   After correction, the City Council shall file a copy of the
corrected budget with the county clerk of the county or counties in which the
City Council is located and with the Auditor of Public Accounts. The City
Council may then issue warrants in payment for expenditures authorized by the
budget.
(Neb. RS 13-511)
§ 35.35 PROPRIETARY FUNCTIONS; FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET STATEMENTS; FILING; HEARING;
ADOPTION; RECONCILIATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PROPRIETARY FUNCTION. A water supply or distribution utility, a
wastewater collection or treatment utility, an electric generation,
transmission, or distribution utility, a gas supply, transmission, or
distribution utility, an integrated solid waste management collection,
disposal, or handling utility, or a hospital or a nursing home owned by the
city.
(Neb. RS 18-2803)
      SUBSIDIZATION. The costs of operation of a proprietary function are
regularly financed by appropriations from the city’s General Fund in excess of
the amount paid by the city to the proprietary function for actual service or
services received.
(Neb. RS 18-2804)
   (B)   The City Council may establish a separate fiscal year for each
proprietary function, except that any proprietary function which is subsidized
by appropriations from the city’s General Fund shall have the same fiscal year
as the city.
   (C)   (1)   At least 30 days prior to the start of the fiscal year of each
proprietary function, a proposed proprietary budget statement shall be prepared
in writing and filed with the City Clerk containing the following information:
         (a)   For the immediately preceding fiscal year, the revenue from all
sources, the unencumbered cash balance at the beginning and end of the year,
the amount received by taxation, and the amount of actual expenditure;
         (b)   For the current fiscal year, actual and estimated revenue from
all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual unencumbered
cash balance available at the beginning of the year, the amount received from
taxation, and the amount of actual and estimated expenditure, whichever is
applicable;
         (c)   For the immediately ensuing fiscal year, an estimate of revenue
from all sources separately stated as to each such source, the actual or
estimated unencumbered cash balance, whichever is applicable, to be available
at the beginning of the year, the amounts proposed to be expended during the
fiscal year, and the amount of cash reserve based on actual experience of prior
years; and
         (d)   A uniform summary of the proposed budget statement, which shall
include a total of all funds maintained for the proprietary function.
      (2)   The statement shall contain the estimated cash reserve for each
fiscal year and shall note whether or not the reserve is encumbered. The cash
reserve projections shall be based upon the actual experience of prior years.
      (3)   Each proprietary budget statement shall be filed on forms
prescribed and furnished by the Auditor of Public Accounts following
consultation with representatives of such governing bodies as operate
proprietary functions subject to the provisions of the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2805)
   (D)   (1)   After a proposed proprietary budget statement is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the statement.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing, a summary of the proposed
proprietary budget statement, and notice that the full proposed proprietary
budget statement is available for public review with the City Clerk during
normal business hours shall be published one time at least five days prior to
the hearing in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation within the City
Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each resident within the City Council’s
jurisdiction.
      (2)   After the hearing, the proposed proprietary budget statement shall
be adopted or amended and adopted as amended, and a written record shall be
kept of the hearing. If the adopted proprietary budget statement reflects a
change from the proposed proprietary statement presented at the hearing, a copy
of the adopted proprietary budget statement shall be filed with the City Clerk
within 20 days after its adoption and published in a legal newspaper in or of
general circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to
each resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction.
(Neb. RS 18-2806)
   (E)   If the actual expenditures for a proprietary function exceed the
estimated expenditures in the proprietary budget statement during its fiscal
year, the City Council shall adopt a proprietary function reconciliation
statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year which reflects any
difference between the adopted proprietary budget statement for the previous
fiscal year and the actual expenditures and revenue for that fiscal year. After
the adoption of a proprietary function reconciliation statement, it shall be
filed with the City Clerk and published in a legal newspaper in or of general
circulation within the City Council’s jurisdiction or by mailing to each
resident within the City Council’s jurisdiction. If the difference between the
adopted proprietary budget for the previous fiscal year and the actual
expenditures and revenues for that fiscal year is greater than 10%, the
proprietary function reconciliation statement shall only be adopted following a
public hearing.
(Neb. RS 18-2807)
   (F)   If the budget of a proprietary function is included in the city budget
statement created pursuant to the State Budget Act, the Municipal Proprietary
Function Act need not be followed for that proprietary function. Any income
from a proprietary function which is transferred to the General Fund of the
city shall be shown as a source of revenue in the city budget statement created
pursuant to the State Budget Act.
(Neb. RS 18-2808)
TAX LEVIES
§ 35.50 PROPERTY TAX LEVY FOR GENERAL REVENUE PURPOSES.
   The city shall have the power to levy taxes for general revenue purposes in
any one year not to exceed $0.35 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the
taxable property in the city. The valuation of such property shall be
ascertained from the books or assessment rolls of the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 17-506)
§ 35.51 LEVIES FOR OTHER TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have the power to levy any other tax or special assessment
authorized by law.
(Neb. RS 17-507)
§ 35.52 ALL-PURPOSE LEVY; EXTRAORDINARY LEVIES; ALLOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding provisions in the statutes of the state and this code
to the contrary, for any fiscal year, the City Council may decide to certify to
the County Clerk for collection one all-purpose levy, required to be raised by
taxation, for all city purposes instead of certifying a schedule of levies for
specific purposes added together. Subject to the limits in §
35.53, the all-purpose levy shall not exceed an annual levy of $1.05 on each
$100 upon the taxable valuation of all the taxable property in the city.
Otherwise-authorized extraordinary levies to service and pay bonded
indebtedness of the city may be made by the city in addition to such all-
purpose levy.
(Neb. RS 19-1309)
   (B)   If the method provided in division (A) above is followed in city
financing, the city shall allocate the amount so raised to the several
departments of the city in its annual budget and appropriation ordinance, or in
other legal manner, as the City Council deems wisest and best.
(Neb. RS 19-1310)
   (C)   If the city elects to follow the method provided in division (A)
above, it shall be bound by that election during the ensuing fiscal year but
may abandon such method in succeeding fiscal years.
(Neb. RS 19-1311)
   (D)   If it is necessary to certify the amount to county officers for
collection, the same shall be certified as a single amount for General Fund
purposes.
(Neb. RS 19-1312)
§ 35.53 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; MAXIMUM; AUTHORITY TO EXCEED.
   (A)   Property tax levies for the support of the city for fiscal years
beginning on or after July 1, 1998, shall be limited to the amounts set forth
in this division (A), except as provided in division (C) below. The city may
levy a maximum levy of $0.45 per $100 of taxable valuation of property subject
to the levy, plus an additional $0.05 per $100 of taxable valuation to provide
financing for the city’s share of revenue required under an agreement or
agreements executed pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act or the Joint
Public Agency Act. The maximum levy shall include amounts levied to pay for
sums to support a library pursuant to Neb. RS 51-201, museum pursuant to Neb.
RS 51-501, visiting community nurse, home health nurse, or home health agency
pursuant to Neb. RS 71-1637, or statue, memorial, or monument pursuant to Neb.
RS 80-202. Property tax levies for judgments, except judgments or orders from
the Commission of Industrial Relations, obtained against the city which require
or obligate the city to pay that judgment, to the extent the judgment is not
paid by liability insurance coverage of the city, for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport are not included in the levy limits established by this division (A).
The limitations on tax levies provided in this division (A) are to include all
other general or special levies provided by law. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, the only exceptions to the limits in this division (A) are
those provided by or authorized by this section. Tax levies in excess of the
limitations in this section shall be considered unauthorized levies under Neb.
RS 77-1606 unless approved under division (C) below.
(Neb. RS 77-3442)
   (B)   (1)   All city airport authorities established under the Cities
Airport Authorities Act, community redevelopment authorities established under
the Community Development Law, and off-street parking districts established
under the Offstreet Parking District Act may be allocated property taxes, as
authorized by law, which are authorized by the city and are counted in the
municipal levy limit provided by division (A) above, except that such
limitation shall not apply to property tax levies for preexisting lease-
purchase contracts approved prior to July 1, 1998, for bonded indebtedness
approved according to law and secured by a levy on property, and for payments
by a public airport to retire interest-free loans from the Division of
Aeronautics in lieu of bonded indebtedness at a lower cost to the public
airport. For off-street parking districts established under the Offstreet
Parking District Act, the tax shall be counted in the allocation by the city
proportionately by dividing the total taxable valuation of the taxable property
within the district by the total taxable valuation of the taxable property
within the city multiplied by the levy of the district. The City Council shall
review and approve or disapprove the levy request of the political subdivisions
subject to this division (B). The City Council may approve all or a portion of
the levy request and may approve a levy request that would allow a levy greater
than that permitted by law. The levy allocated by the city may be exceeded as
provided in division (C) below.
      (2)   On or before August 1, all political subdivisions subject to city
levy authority under this division (B) shall submit a preliminary request for
levy allocation to the City Council. The preliminary request of the political
subdivision shall be in the form of a resolution adopted by a majority vote of
members present of the political subdivision’s governing body. The failure of a
political subdivision to make a preliminary request shall preclude that
political subdivision from using procedures set forth in Neb. RS 77-3444 to
exceed the final levy allocation as determined in this division (B).
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall:
            1.   Adopt a resolution by a majority vote of members present which
determines a final allocation of levy authority to its political subdivisions;
and
            2.   Forward a copy of that resolution to the chairperson of the
governing body of each of its political subdivisions.
         (b)   No final levy allocation shall be changed after September 1
except by agreement between both the City Council and the governing body of the
political subdivision whose final levy allocation is at issue.
(Neb. RS 77-3443)
   (C)   (1)   The city may exceed the limits provided in division (A) above by
an amount not to exceed a maximum levy approved by a majority of registered
voters voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which
the issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to exceed the limits
must be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year which is to be the
first to exceed the limits.
      (2)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
         (a)   By passing a resolution calling for exceeding the limits by a
vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council and delivering a
copy of the resolution to the county clerk or election commissioner of every
county which contains all or part of the city; or
         (b)   Upon receipt of a petition by the county clerk or election
commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
      (3)   The resolution or petition shall include the amount of levy which
would be imposed in excess of the limits provided in division (A) above and the
duration of the excess levy authority. The excess levy authority shall not have
a duration greater than five years. Any resolution or petition calling for a
special election shall be filed with the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
on or before the fifth Friday prior to the election, and the time of
publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in Neb. RS
32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election.
      (4)   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the issue on
the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition which is
at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition. The election
shall be held pursuant to the Election Act. For petitions filed with the County
Clerk or Election Commissioner on or after May 1, 1998, the petition shall be
in the form as provided in Neb. RS 32-628 through 32-631.
      (5)   Any excess levy authority approved under this division (C) shall
terminate pursuant to its terms, on a vote of the City Council to terminate the
authority to levy more than the limits, at the end of the fourth fiscal year
following the first year in which the levy exceeded the limit, or as provided
in division (C)(8) below, whichever is earliest.
      (6)   The City Council may pass not more than one resolution calling for
an election pursuant to this division (C) during any one calendar year. Only
one election may be held in any 1 calendar year pursuant to a petition
initiated under this division (C). The ballot question may include any terms
and conditions that are set forth in the resolution or petition and shall
include the language specified in Neb. RS 77-3444.
      (7)   If a majority of the votes cast upon the ballot question are in
favor of the tax, the County Board shall authorize a tax in excess of the
limits in division (A) above, but the tax shall not exceed the amount stated in
the ballot question. If a majority of those voting on the ballot question are
opposed to the tax, the City Council shall not impose the tax.
      (8)   (a)   The city may rescind or modify a previously approved excess
levy authority prior to its expiration by a majority of registered voters
voting on the issue in a primary, general, or special election at which the
issue is placed before the registered voters. A vote to rescind or modify must
be approved prior to October 10 of the fiscal year for which it is to be
effective.
         (b)   The City Council may call for the submission of the issue to the
voters:
            1.   By passing a resolution calling for the rescission or
modification by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the City
Council and delivering a copy of the resolution to the county clerk or election
commissioner of every county which contains all or part of the city; or
            2.   Upon receipt of a petition by the County Clerk or Election
Commissioner of every county containing all or part of the city requesting an
election signed by at least 5% of the registered voters residing in the city.
         (c)   1.   The resolution or petition shall include the amount and the
duration of the previously approved excess levy authority and a statement that
either the excess levy authority will be rescinded or the excess levy authority
will be modified. If the excess levy authority will be modified, the amount and
duration of the modification shall be stated. The modification shall not have a
duration greater than five years.
            2.   The County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall place the
issue on the ballot at an election as called for in the resolution or petition
which is at least 31 days after receipt of the resolution or petition, and the
time of publication and providing a copy of the notice of election required in
Neb. RS 32-802 shall be not later than 20 days prior to the election. The
election shall be held pursuant to the Election Act.
(Neb. RS 77-3444)
§ 35.54 PROPERTY TAX LEVY; CERTIFICATION OF AMOUNT; COLLECTION.
   The City Council shall, at the time and in the manner provided by law, cause
to be certified to the County Clerk the amount of tax to be levied upon the
taxable value of all the taxable property of the city which the city requires
for the purposes of the adopted budget statement for the ensuing year,
including all special assessments and taxes assessed as otherwise provided. The
County Clerk shall place the same on the property tax lists to be collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of county taxes in the county
where the city is situated. In all sales for any delinquent taxes for municipal
purposes, if there are other delinquent taxes due from the same person or a
lien on the same property, the sale shall be for all the delinquent taxes. Such
sales and all sales made under or by virtue of this section or the provision of
law herein referred to shall be of the same validity and in all respects be
deemed and treated as though such sales had been made for the delinquent county
taxes exclusively.
(Neb. RS 17-702)
§ 35.55 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   If the annual assessment of property would result in an increase in
the total property taxes levied by a county, municipality, school district,
learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural resources
district, educational service unit, or community college, as determined using
the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax request for the
current year shall be not more than its property tax request in the prior year,
and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be decreased accordingly
when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization pursuant to Neb. RS
77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or ordinance to set the
amount of its property tax request after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set its property tax request
at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in the prior year, it may do
so to the extent allowed by law after holding the public hearing required in
division (C) below and by passing a resolution or ordinance that complies with
division (D) below. If any county, city, school district, or community college
seeks to increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth
percentage, such political subdivision shall comply with the requirements of
Neb. 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (B)   If the annual assessment of property would result in no change or a
decrease in the total property taxes levied by a county, city, village, school
district, learning community, sanitary and improvement district, natural
resources district, educational service unit, or community college, as
determined using the previous year’s rate of levy, the city’s property tax
request for the current year shall be not more than its property tax request in
the prior year, and the city’s rate of levy for the current year shall be
adjusted accordingly when such rate is set by the County Board of Equalization
pursuant to Neb. RS 77-1601. The City Council shall pass a resolution or
ordinance to set the amount of its property tax request after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) below. If the City Council seeks to set
its property tax request at an amount that exceeds its property tax request in
the prior year, it may do so to the extent allowed by law after holding the
public hearing required in division (C) below and by passing a resolution or
ordinance that complies with division (D) below. If any county, city, school
district, or community college seeks to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage, such political subdivision shall
comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 77-1633 in lieu of the requirements in
divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   The resolution or ordinance required under this section shall only be
passed after a special public hearing called for the purpose is held and after
notice is published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area of the
city at least four calendar days prior to the hearing. For the purposes of such
notice, the four calendar days shall include the day of publication but not the
day of the hearing. If the city’s total operating budget, not including
reserves, does not exceed $10,000 per year or $20,000 per biennial period, the
notice may be posted at the City Council’s principal headquarters.
   (D)   The hearing notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the prior
year, the certified taxable valuation under Neb. RS 13-509 for the current
year, and the percentage increase or decrease in such valuations from the prior
year to the current year;
      (2)   The dollar amount of the prior year’s tax request and the property
tax rate that was necessary to fund that tax request;
      (3)   The property tax rate that would be necessary to fund last year’s
tax request if applied to the current year’s valuation;
      (4)   The proposed dollar amount of the tax request for the current year
and the property tax rate that will be necessary to fund that tax request;
      (5)   The percentage increase or decrease in the property tax rate from
the prior year to the current year; and
      (6)   The percentage increase or decrease in the total operating budget
from the prior year to the current year.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a city’s property tax request
under Neb. RS 77-1632 at an amount that exceeds the city’s property tax request
in the prior year shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the city;
      (2)   The amount of the property tax request;
      (3)   The following statements:
         (a)   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by ____ percent;
         (b)   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property taxes
as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of property,
would be $____ per $100 of assessed value;
         (c)   The (name of city) proposes to adopt a property tax request that
will cause its tax rate to be $____ per $100 of assessed value; and
         (d)   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in other
revenue, the total operating budget of (name of city) will exceed last year’s
by ____ percent.
      (4)   The record vote of the City Council in passing such resolution or
ordinance.
   (F)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
(Neb. RS 77-1632)
§ 35.56 PROPERTY TAX REQUEST; INCREASE BY MORE THAN ALLOWABLE GROWTH
PERCENTAGE; PROCEDURE FOR SETTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION means any
county, city, school district, or community college.
   (B)   If any political subdivision seeks to increase its property tax
request by more than the allowable growth percentage, such political
subdivision may do so to the extent allowed by law if:
      (1)   A public hearing is held and notice of such hearing is provided in
compliance with division (C) below; and
      (2)   The governing body of such political subdivision passes a
resolution or an ordinance that complies with division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each political subdivision within a county that seeks to
increase its property tax request by more than the allowable growth percentage
shall participate in a joint public hearing. Each such political subdivision
shall designate one representative to attend the joint public hearing on behalf
of the political subdivision. If a political subdivision includes area in more
than one county, the political subdivision shall be deemed to be within the
county in which the political subdivision’s principal headquarters are located.
At such hearing, there shall be no items on the agenda other than discussion on
each political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by
more than the allowable growth percentage.
      (2)   At least one elected official from each participating political
subdivision shall attend the joint public hearing. An elected official may be
the designated representative from a participating political subdivision. The
presence of a quorum or the participation of elected officials at the joint
public hearing does not constitute a meeting as defined by Neb. RS 84-1409 of
the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   The joint public hearing shall be held on or after September 14 and
prior to September 24 and before any of the participating political
subdivisions file their adopted budget statement pursuant to Neb. RS 13-508.
      (4)   The joint public hearing shall be held after 6:00 p.m. local time
on the relevant date.
      (5)   (a)   The joint public hearing shall be organized by the County
Clerk or his or her designee. At the joint public hearing, the designated
representative of each political subdivision shall give a brief presentation on
the political subdivision’s intent to increase its property tax request by more
than the allowable growth percentage and the effect of such request on the
political subdivision’s budget.
         (a)   The presentation shall include:
            1.   The name of the political subdivision;
            2.   The amount of the property tax request; and
            3.   The following statements:
               a.   The total assessed value of property differs from last
year’s total assessed value by ____ percent;
               b.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $____ per $100 of assessed value;
               c.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $____ per $100 of
assessed value;
               d.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by ____ percent; and
               e.   To obtain more information regarding the increase in the
property tax request, citizens may contact the (name of political subdivision)
at (telephone number and email address of political subdivision).
      (6)   Any member of the public shall be allowed to speak at the joint
public hearing and shall be given a reasonable amount of time to do so.
      (7)   Notice of the joint public hearing shall be provided:
         (a)   By sending a postcard to all affected property taxpayers. The
postcard shall be sent to the name and address to which the property tax
statement is mailed;
         (b)   By posting notice of the hearing on the home page of the
relevant county’s website, except that this requirement shall only apply if the
county has a population of more than 10,000 inhabitants; and
         (c)   By publishing notice of the hearing in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the relevant county.
      (8)   Each political subdivision that participates in the joint public
hearing shall electronically send the information prescribed in division (C)(9)
below to the County Assessor by September 4. The County Clerk shall notify the
County Assessor of the date, time, and location of the joint public hearing not
later than September 4. The County Clerk shall notify each participating
political subdivision of the date, time, and location of the joint public
hearing. The County Assessor shall send the information required to be included
on the postcards pursuant to division (C)(9) below to a printing service
designated by the County Board. The initial cost for printing the postcards
shall be paid from the county’s General Fund. Such postcards shall be mailed at
least seven calendar days before the joint public hearing. The cost of creating
and mailing the postcards, including staff time, materials, and postage, shall
be charged proportionately to the political subdivisions participating in the
joint public hearing based on the total number of parcels in each participating
political subdivision. Each participating political subdivision shall also
maintain a prominently displayed and easily accessible link on the home page of
the political subdivision’s website to the political subdivision’s proposed
budget, except that this requirement shall not apply if the political
subdivision is a county with a population of less than 10,000 inhabitants, a
city with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants, or, for joint public
hearings prior to January 1, 2024, a school district.
      (9)   (a)   The postcard sent under this division (C) and the notice
posted on the county’s website, if required under division (C)(7)(b) above, and
published in the newspaper shall include the date, time, and location for the
joint public hearing, a listing of and telephone number for each political
subdivision that will be participating in the joint public hearing, and the
amount of each participating political subdivision’s property tax request.
         (b)   The postcard shall also contain the following information:
            1.   The following words in capitalized type at the top of the
postcard: NOTICE OF PROPOSED TAX INCREASE;
            2.   The name of the county that will hold the joint public
hearing, which shall appear directly underneath the capitalized words described
in division (C)(9)(b)1. above;
            3.   The following statement: The following political subdivisions
are proposing a revenue increase which would result in an overall increase in
property taxes in (insert current tax year). THE ACTUAL TAX ON YOUR PROPERTY
MAY INCREASE OR DECREASE. This notice contains estimates of the tax on your
property as a result of this revenue increase. These estimates are calculated
on the basis of the proposed (insert current tax year) data. The actual tax on
your property may vary from these estimates.
            4.   The parcel number for the property;
            5.   The name of the property owner and the address of the
property;
            6.   The property’s assessed value in the previous tax year;
            7.   The amount of property taxes due in the previous tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            8.   The property’s assessed value for the current tax year;
            9.   The amount of property taxes due for the current tax year for
each participating political subdivision;
            10.   The change in the amount of property taxes due for each
participating political subdivision from the previous tax year to the current
tax year; and
            11.   The following statement: To obtain more information regarding
the tax increase, citizens may contact the political subdivision at the
telephone number provided in this notice.
   (D)   (1)   After the joint public hearing required in division (C) above,
the governing body of each participating political subdivision shall pass an
ordinance or resolution to set such political subdivision’s property tax
request.
      (2)   If the political subdivision is increasing its property tax request
over the amount from the prior year, including any increase in excess of the
allowable growth percentage, then such ordinance or resolution shall include,
but not be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   The name of the political subdivision;
         (b)   The amount of the property tax request;
         (c)   The following statements:
            1.   The total assessed value of property differs from last year’s
total assessed value by ____ percent;
            2.   The tax rate which would levy the same amount of property
taxes as last year, when multiplied by the new total assessed value of
property, would be $____ per $100 of assessed value;
            3.   The (name of political subdivision) proposes to adopt a
property tax request that will cause its tax rate to be $____ per $100 of
assessed value; and
            4.   Based on the proposed property tax request and changes in
other revenue, the total operating budget of (name of political subdivision)
will exceed last year’s by ____ percent.
         (d)   The record vote of the governing body in passing such resolution
or ordinance.
   (E)   Any resolution or ordinance setting a property tax request under this
section shall be certified and forwarded to the County Clerk on or before
October 15 of the year for which the tax request is to apply.
   (F)   (1)   The County Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prepare a report
which shall include:
         (a)   The names of the representatives of the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing;
         (b)   The name and address of each individual who spoke at the joint
public hearing, unless the address requirement is waived to protect the
security of the individual, and the name of any organization represented by
each such individual;
         (c)   The name of each political subdivision that participated in the
joint public hearing;
         (d)   The real growth value and real growth percentage for each
participating political subdivision;
         (e)   The amount each participating political subdivision seeks to
increase its property tax request in excess of the allowable growth percentage;
and
         (f)   The number of individuals who signed in to attend the joint
public hearing.
      (2)   Such report shall be delivered to the political subdivisions
participating in the joint public hearing within ten days after such hearing.
(Neb. RS 77-1633)
§ 35.57 MOTOR VEHICLE FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LIMITS OF THE CITY. Includes the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of
the city.
      PERSON. Includes bodies corporate, societies, communities, the public
generally, individuals, partnerships, limited liability companies, joint-stock
companies, cooperatives, and associations. PERSON does not include any federal,
state, or local government or any political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D) below, the
governing body of the city shall have power to require any individual whose
primary residence or person who owns a place of business which is within the
limits of the city and that owns and operates a motor vehicle within such
limits to pay an annual motor vehicle fee and to require the payment of such
fee upon the change of ownership of such vehicle. All such fees which may be
provided for under this section shall be used exclusively for constructing,
repairing, maintaining, or improving streets, roads, alleys, public ways, or
parts thereof or for the amortization of bonded indebtedness when created for
such purposes.
      (2)   To ensure compatibility with the Vehicle Title and Registration
System maintained by the Department of Motor Vehicles:
         (a)   Any city that collects the annual motor vehicle fee authorized
under this section shall use the plate types listed under Neb. RS 60-3,104 and,
as applicable, weight categories listed under the Motor Vehicle Registration
Act when reporting information to the Vehicle Title and Registration System;
and
         (b)   Any city that adopts an annual motor vehicle fee under this
section or that modifies an existing motor vehicle fee shall notify the
Department of Motor Vehicles of such new or modified fee within ten business
days after the passage of the ordinance authorizing such new or modified fee
and at least 60 days prior to the implementation of such new or modified fee.
   (C)   No motor vehicle fee shall be required under this section if:
      (1)   A vehicle is used or stored but temporarily in the city for a
period of six months or less in a 12-month period;
      (2)   An individual does not have a primary residence or a person does
not own a place of business within the limits of the city and does not own and
operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city; or
      (3)   An individual is a full-time student attending a postsecondary
institution within the limits of the city and the motor vehicle’s situs under
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act is different from the place at which
he or she is attending such institution.
   (D)   After December 31, 2012, no motor vehicle fee shall be required of any
individual whose primary residence is or person who owns a place of business
within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   The fee shall be paid to the county treasurer of the county in which
the city is located when the registration fees as provided in the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act are paid. These fees shall be credited by the county treasurer
to the Road Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 18-1214)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
CHAPTER 36: FORMS OF LEGISLATION
Section
Ordinances, Resolutions and Motions
   
36.01   Grant of power
   
36.02   Introduction of ordinances
   
36.03   Procedure for resolutions and motions
   
36.04   Ordinances; style, title
   
36.05   Reading and passage of ordinances, resolutions, orders, bylaws
   
36.06   Publication or posting
   
36.07   Certificate of publication or posting
   
36.08   Effective date; emergency ordinances
   
36.09   Amendments and revisions
Initiative and Referendum
   
36.20   Powers; purpose; definitions
   
36.21   Petitions, ballots
   
36.22   Petitions; form
   
36.23   Signature sheets
   
36.24   Petitions, affidavit
   
36.25   Petitions, notification
   
36.26   Frequency of occurrence
   
36.27   Direct vote
   
36.28   Elections
   
36.29   Ballots
   
36.30   Initiative
   
36.31   Referendum limitations
   
36.32   Referendum, passage
   
36.33   Applicability
 
   
36.99   Penalty
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS
§ 36.01 GRANT OF POWER.
   In addition to its special powers specifically granted by law, the city
shall have the power to make all ordinances, bylaws, rules, regulations, and
resolutions, not inconsistent with the laws of the state, as may be expedient
for maintaining the peace, good government, and welfare of the city and its
trade, commerce, and manufactories, and to enforce all ordinances by inflicting
fines or penalties for the breach thereof, not exceeding $500 for any one
offense, recoverable with costs.
(Neb. RS 17-505)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of standard codes, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-922
   Prosecution in county court, see Neb. RS 25-2703
§ 36.02 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, ordinances shall be introduced
by members of the City Council in one of the following ways:
   (A)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may, in the presence and
hearing of a majority of the members elected to the City Council, read aloud
the substance of the proposed ordinance and file a copy with the City Clerk for
future consideration; or
   (B)   With the recognition of the Mayor, a member may present the proposed
ordinance to the Clerk, who, in the presence and hearing of a majority of the
members elected to the City Council, shall read aloud the substance of the
ordinance and file it for future consideration.
§ 36.03 PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   Unless the City Council provides otherwise, resolutions and motions shall be
introduced in one of the methods prescribed in §
36.02 for the introduction of ordinances. The issue raised by the resolution or
motion shall be disposed of in accordance with the usage of parliamentary law
adopted for the guidance of the City Council. A majority vote shall be required
to pass any resolution or motion. The vote on any resolution or motion shall be
by roll call vote.
§ 36.04 ORDINANCES; STYLE, TITLE.
   (A)   Style. The style of all city ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by
the Mayor and Council of the City of Wilber, Nebraska:….”
(Neb. RS 17-613)
   (B)   Title. No ordinance shall contain a subject which is not clearly
expressed in the title.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
§ 36.05 READING AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, ORDERS, BYLAWS.
   (A)   (1) All ordinances and resolutions or orders for the appropriation or
payment of money shall require for their passage or adoption the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the City Council. The Mayor may vote when
his or her vote would provide the additional vote required to attain the number
of votes equal to a majority of the number of members elected to the Council,
and the Mayor shall, for the purpose of such vote, be deemed to be a member of
the Council.
      (2)   Ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be read by title
on three different days unless three-fourths of the City Council vote to
suspend this requirement. Such requirement shall not be suspended for any
ordinance for the annexation of territory, or the redrawing of boundaries for
city council election districts or wards, or as otherwise provided in Neb. RS
17-614(3) or as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   In case this requirement is suspended, the ordinance shall be read
by title and then moved for final passage.
      (4)   Three-fourths of the City Council may require a reading of any such
ordinance in full before enactment under either procedure set out in this
section.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
   (B)   On the passage or adoption of every bylaw or ordinance, and every
resolution or order to enter into a contract by the City Council, the yeas and
nays shall be called and recorded. To pass or adopt any bylaw, ordinance, or
any such resolution or order, a concurrence of a majority of the whole number
of members elected to the City Council shall be required. All appointments of
the officers by the City Council shall be made viva voce, and the concurrence
of a like majority shall be required, and the names of those, and for whom they
voted, on the vote resulting in an appointment, shall be recorded. The
requirements of a roll call or viva voce vote shall be satisfied by a city
which utilizes an electronic voting device which allows the yeas and nays of
each member of the City Council to be readily seen by the public.
(Neb. RS 17-616)
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments to boundaries of election districts, see Neb. RS 17-614
§ 36.06 PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   All ordinances of a general nature shall, before they take effect, be
published one time, within 15 days after they are passed:
   (A)   In newspaper in or of general circulation in the city; or
   (B)   In book, pamphlet, or electronic form.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Additional provisions, see Neb. RS 18-131
§ 36.07 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION OR POSTING.
   The passage, approval and publication or posting of an ordinance shall be
sufficiently proved by a certificate under the seal of the city from the City
Clerk showing that the ordinance was passed and approved, and when and in what
paper the ordinance was published, or when and by whom and where the ordinance
was posted.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
Statutory reference:
   Passage; rules and regulations, see Neb. RS 17-615
§ 36.08 EFFECTIVE DATE; EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in § 30.50 and division (B) below, an ordinance for
the government of the city which has been adopted by the City Council without
submission to the voters of the city shall not go into effect until 15 days
after the passage of the ordinance.
(Neb. RS 19-3701)
   (B)   In the case of riot, infectious or contagious diseases, or other
impending danger, failure of a public utility, or any other emergency requiring
its immediate operation, an ordinance shall take effect upon the proclamation
of the Mayor and the posting thereof in at least three of the most public
places in the city. The emergency ordinance shall recite the emergency, be
passed by a three-fourths vote of the City Council, and be entered of record on
the City Clerk’s minutes.
(Neb. RS 17-613)
§ 36.09 AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS.
   No ordinance or section thereof shall be revised or amended unless the new
ordinance contains the entire ordinance or section as revised or amended and
the ordinance or section so amended is repealed, except that an ordinance
revising all the ordinances of the city and modifications to zoning or building
districts may be adopted as otherwise provided by law.
(Neb. RS 17-614)
Statutory reference:
   Modifications to zoning or building districts, see Neb. RS 19-915
   Ordinances revising all the ordinances of the city, see Neb. RS 17-614
   Requests to detach property from city or village, see Neb. RS 17-614
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 36.20 POWERS; PURPOSE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The powers of initiative and referendum are reserved to the qualified
electors of the municipality by state law. This subchapter shall govern the use
of initiative to enact, and the use of referendum to amend or repeal measures
affecting the governance of the municipality.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CIRCULATOR. Any person who solicits signatures for an initiative or
referendum petition.
      CLERK. The Municipal Clerk or the municipal official in charge of
elections.
      GOVERNING BODY. The legislative authority of the municipality.
      MEASURE. An ordinance, charter provision or resolution which is within
the legislative authority of the governing body to pass, and which is not
excluded from the operation of referendum by the exceptions in §
36.31.
      MUNICIPALITY. The City of Wilber, Nebraska.
      PETITION. A document authorized for circulation pursuant to §
36.21, or any copy of such document.
      PLACE OF RESIDENCE. The street and number of the residence. If there is
no street and number for the residence, place of residence shall mean the
mailing address.
      PROSPECTIVE PETITION. A sample document containing the information
necessary for a completed petition, including a sample signature sheet, which
has not yet been authorized for circulation.
      QUALIFIED ELECTORS. All persons registered to vote, at the time the
prospective petition is filed, in the jurisdiction governed or to be governed
by any measure sought to be enacted by initiative or altered or repealed by
referendum.
      RESIDENCE. The place at which a person has established his or her home,
where he or she is habitually present and to which, when he or she departs, he
or she intends to return.
      SIGNATURE SHEET. A sheet of paper which is part of a petition and which
is signed by persons wishing to support the petition effort.
(Prior Code, § 1-1001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2511
§ 36.21 PETITIONS, BALLOTS.
   (A)   Before circulating an initiative or referendum petition, the
petitioner shall file with the Clerk a prospective petition. The Clerk shall
date the prospective petition immediately upon its receipt. The Clerk shall
verify that the prospective petition is in proper form and shall provide a
ballot title for the initiative or referendum proposal, as described below. If
the prospective petition is in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the
circulation of the petition and such authorization shall be given within three
working days from the date the prospective petition was filed. If the form of
the prospective petition is incorrect, the Clerk shall, within three working
days from the date the prospective petition was filed, inform the petitioner of
necessary changes and request that those changes be made. When the requested
changes have been made and the revised prospective petition has been submitted
to the Clerk in proper form, the Clerk shall authorize the circulation of the
petition and such authorization shall be given within two working days from the
receipt of the properly revised petition. Verification by the Clerk that the
prospective petition is in proper form does not constitute an admission by the
Clerk, governing body or municipality that the measure is subject to referendum
or limited referendum or that the measure may be enacted by initiative.
   (B)   The ballot title of any measure to be initiated or referred shall
consist of:
      (1)   A briefly-worded caption by which the measure is commonly known or
which accurately summarizes the measure;
      (2)   A briefly-worded question which plainly states the purpose of the
measure and is phrased so that an affirmative response to the question
corresponds to an affirmative vote on the measure; and
      (3)   A concise and impartial statement, of not more than 75 words, of
the chief purpose of the measure.
   (C)   The ballots used when voting on an initiative or referendum proposal
shall contain the entire ballot title. Proposals for initiative and referendum
shall be submitted on separate ballots and the ballots shall be printed in
lower case ten point type, except that the caption shall be in bold face type.
All initiative and referendum measures shall be submitted in a nonpartisan
manner without indicating or suggesting on the ballot that they have or have
not been approved or endorsed by any political party or organization.
(Prior Code, § 1-1002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2512 and 18-2513
§ 36.22 PETITIONS; FORM.
   (A)   The Secretary of State shall design the form to be used for initiative
and referendum petitions, including signature sheets. These forms shall be made
available to the public by the Clerk, and they shall serve as a guide for
individuals preparing prospective petitions. Substantial compliance with
initiative and referendum forms is required before authorization to circulate
such petition shall be granted by the Clerk pursuant to §
36.21. Chief petitioners or circulators preparing prospective petitions shall
be responsible for making copies of the petition for circulation, once
authorization for circulation has been granted, and each petition presented for
signature must be identical to the petition authorized for circulation by the
Clerk pursuant to §
36.21.
   (B)   The municipality or any chief petitioner may seek a declaratory
judgment regarding any questions arising under this subchapter, as it may be
from time to time amended, including, but not limited to, determining whether a
measure is subject to referendum or limited referendum or whether a measure may
be enacted by initiative. If a chief petitioner seeks a declaratory judgment,
the municipality shall be served by personal, residence or certified mail
service upon the Chief Executive Officer or Clerk. If the municipality seeks a
declaratory judgment, only the chief petitioner or chief petitioners shall be
required to be served. Any action brought for declaratory judgment for purposes
of determining whether a measure is subject to limited referendum or
referendum, or whether a measure may be enacted by initiative, may be filed in
the district court at any time after the filing of a referendum or initiative
petition with the Municipal Clerk for signature verification until 40 days from
the date the governing body received notification pursuant to §
36.25. If the municipality does not bring an action for declaratory judgment to
determine whether the measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum,
or whether the measure may be enacted by initiative until after it has received
notification pursuant to §
36.25, it shall be required to proceed with the initiative or referendum
election in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. If the
municipality does file such an action prior to receiving notification pursuant
to §
36.25, it shall not be required to proceed to hold such election until a final
decision has been rendered in the action. Any action for a declaratory judgment
shall be governed generally by Neb. RS 25-21,149 through 25-21,164, except that
only the municipality and each chief petitioner shall be required to be made
parties. The municipality, Clerk, governing body or any of the municipality’s
officers shall be entitled to rely on any order rendered by the court in any
such proceeding. Any action brought for declaratory judgment pursuant to this
section shall be given priority in scheduling, hearings and in disposition as
determined by the court when an action is brought to determine whether the
measure is subject to limited referendum or referendum, or whether a measure
may be enacted by initiative, a decision shall be rendered by the court no
later than five days prior to the election. The provisions of this section
relating to declaratory judgments shall not be construed as limiting but
construed as supplemental and additional to other rights and remedies conferred
by law.
   (C)   Every petition shall contain the name and place of residence of not
more than three persons as chief petitioners or sponsors of the measure. The
chief petitioners or sponsors shall be qualified electors of the municipality
potentially affected by the initiative or referendum proposal. Every petition
shall contain the caption and ballot title required in §
36.21, and only qualified electors shall circulate petitions. When a special
election is being requested, such fact shall be stated on every petition.
(Prior Code, § 1-1003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 25-510.02, 25-515 and 25-2514
§ 36.23 SIGNATURE SHEETS.
   Every signature sheet shall:
   (A)   Contain the caption required in §
36.21(A);
   (B)   Be part of a complete and authorized petition when presented to
potential signatories; and
   (C)   Comply with the requirements of Neb. RS 32-628(Prior Code, § 1-1004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2516
§ 36.24 PETITIONS, AFFIDAVIT.
   Signers and circulators shall comply with Neb. RS 32-629 and 32-630.
(Prior Code, § 1-1005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2517
§ 36.25 PETITIONS, NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Signed petitions shall be filed with the Clerk for signature
verification. Upon the filing of a petition and passage of a resolution by the
governing body, the municipality and the County Clerk or Election Commissioner
of the county in which such municipality is located may by mutual agreement
provide that the County Clerk or Election Commissioner shall ascertain whether
the petition is signed by the requisite number of voters. The municipality
shall reimburse the county for any costs incurred by the County Clerk or
Election Commissioner. When the verifying official has determined that 100% of
the necessary signatures required by this subchapter have been obtained, he or
she shall notify the governing body of that fact and shall immediately forward
to the governing body a copy of the petition.
   (B)   In order for an initiative or referendum proposal to be submitted to
the governing body and the voters, the necessary signatures shall be on file
with the Clerk within six months from the date the prospective petition was
authorized for circulation. If the necessary signatures are not obtained by
such date, the petition shall be void.
(Neb. RS 18-2518) (Prior Code, § 1-1006)
§ 36.26 FREQUENCY OF OCCURRENCE.
   The same measure, either in form or in essential substance, may not be
submitted to the people by initiative petition, either affirmatively or
negatively, more often than once every two years. No attempt to repeal or alter
an existing measure or portion of such measure by referendum petition may be
made within two years from the last attempt to do the same. Such prohibition
shall apply only when the subsequent attempt to repeal or alter is designed to
accomplish the same, or essentially the same purpose as the previous attempt.
(Neb. RS 18-2519) (Prior Code, § 1-1007)
§ 36.27 DIRECT VOTE.
   (A)   The Executive Officer and governing body of the municipality may at
any time, by resolution, provide for the submission to a direct vote of the
electors of any measure pending before it, passed by it, including an override
of any veto, if necessary, or enacted by the electors under this subchapter and
may provide in such resolution that such measure shall be submitted at a
special election or the next regularly scheduled primary or general election.
   (B)   Immediately upon the passage of any such resolution for submission,
the Clerk shall cause such measure to be submitted to a direct vote of the
electors, at the time specified in such resolution and in the manner provided
in this subchapter for submission of measures upon proposals and petitions
filed by voters. Such matter shall become law if approved by a majority of the
votes cast.
(Neb. RS 18-2520) (Prior Code, § 1-1008)
§ 36.28 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall call elections under this subchapter, either at a
special election or regularly scheduled primary or general election. He or she
shall cause notice of every such election to be printed in one or more
newspapers of general circulation in such municipality at least once not less
than 30 days prior to such election and also posted in the office of the Clerk
and in at least three conspicuous places in such municipality at least 30 days
prior to such election. The notice shall be substantially as follows.
 
   Notice is hereby given that on Tuesday, the              day of                  , 20           , at (identify polling place or precinct) of the Municipality of                 , Nebraska, an election will be held at which there will be submitted to the electors of the Municipality for their approval or rejection, the following measures, propositions or issues:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (naming measures, propositions or issues), which election will be open at 8:00 a.m. and will continue open until 8:00 p.m., of the same day.
   Dated this              day of                    , 20          .
 
                                                         
         Clerk of the City/Village of
                                        , Nebraska
 
   (B)   The Clerk shall make available for photocopying a copy in pamphlet
form of measures initiated or referred. Such notice provided in this section
shall designate where such a copy in pamphlet form may be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 1-1009)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2521
§ 36.29 BALLOTS.
   All ballots for use in special elections under this subchapter shall be
prepared by the Clerk and furnished by the governing body, unless the governing
body contracts with the county for such service and shall be in form the same
as provided by law for election of the Executive Officer and governing body of
such municipality. When ordinances under such sections are submitted to the
electors at a regularly scheduled primary or general election they shall be
placed upon the official ballots as provided in this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 18-2522) (Prior Code, § 1-1010)
§ 36.30 INITIATIVE.
   (A)   The power of initiative allows citizens the right to enact measures
affecting the governance of the municipality. An initiative proposal shall not
have as its primary or sole purpose the repeal or modification of existing law
except if such repeal or modification is ancillary to and necessary for the
adoption and effective operation of the initiative measure.
   (B)   An initiative shall not be effective if the direct or indirect effect
of the passage of such initiative measure shall be to repeal or alter an
existing law, or portion thereof, which is not subject to referendum or subject
only to limited referendum pursuant to §
36.31.
   (C)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider
passage of the measure contained in the petition including an override of any
veto if necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure without
amendment, including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from
the date it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at the next regularly scheduled primary or
general election held within the municipality. If the governing body desires to
submit the measure to a vote of the people at a special election prior to the
next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within the
municipality, the governing body shall by resolution direct the Clerk to cause
the measure to be submitted at a special election. Such resolution shall not be
subject to referendum or limited referendum.
   (D)   Whenever an initiative petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 20% of the qualified electors, which requests that a special election
be called to submit the initiative measure to a vote of the people, has been
filed with the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
36.25, it shall be the duty of the governing body to consider passage of the
measure contained in the petition including an override of any veto, if
necessary. If the governing body fails to pass the measure, without amendment,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, within 30 days from the date
it received notification, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to
a vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose. Subject to
the provisions of Neb. RS 18-2521, the date of such election shall be set
during the first available month that complies with Neb. RS 32-405 and 32-559.
   (E)   If a majority of voters voting on the initiative measure shall vote in
favor of such measure, it shall become a valid and binding measure of the
municipality 30 days after certification of the election results, unless the
governing body by resolution orders an earlier effective date or the measure
itself provides for a later effective date, which resolution shall not be
subject to referendum or limited referendum. A measure passed by such method
shall not be amended or repealed except by two-thirds’ majority of the members
of the governing body. No such attempt to amend or repeal shall be made within
one year from the passage of the measure by the electors.
(Prior Code, § 1-1011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2523 through 18-2526
§ 36.31 REFERENDUM LIMITATIONS.
   The power of referendum allows citizens the right to repeal or amend
existing measures, or portions thereof, affecting the governance of the
municipality.
   (A)   The following measures shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum:
      (1)   Measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations, including,
but not limited to, those relating to the issuance of or provided for in bonds,
notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness, for projects previously
approved by a measure which was or is subject to referendum or limited
referendum or previously approved by a measure adopted prior to the effective
date of this subchapter;
      (2)   Measures relating to any industrial development projects,
subsequent to measures giving initial approval to such projects;
      (3)   Measures adopting proposed budget statements following compliance
with procedures set forth in the State Budget Act;
      (4)   Measures relating to the immediate preservation of the public
peace, health or safety which have been designated as urgent measures by
unanimous vote of those present and voting of the governing body and approved
by its Executive Officer;
      (5)   Measures relating to projects for which notice has been given as
provided for in division (D) below for which a sufficient referendum petition
was not filed within the time limit stated in such notice or which received
voter approval after the filing of such petition;
      (6)   Resolutions directing the Clerk to cause measures to be submitted
to a vote of the people at a special elections as provided in §§
36.30(C) and 36.32(A);
      (7)   Resolutions ordering an earlier effective date for measures enacted
by initiative as provided in §
36.30(E); and
      (8)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality and
which are necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (B)   The following measures shall be subject to limited referendum:
      (1)   Measures in furtherance of a policy of the municipality or relating
to projects previously approved by a measure which was subject to referendum or
which was enacted by initiative or has been approved by the voters at an
election, except that such measures shall not be subject to referendum or
limited referendum for a period of one year after any such policy or project
was approved at a referendum election, enacted by initiative or approved by the
voters at an election;
      (2)   Measures relating to acquisition, construction, installation,
improvement or enlargement, including the financing or refinancing of the costs
of public ways, public property, utility systems and other capital projects and
measures giving initial approval for industrial development projects;
      (3)   Measures setting utility system rates and charges, except for
measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for in
previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidences of indebtedness and
pay rates and salaries for municipal employees other than the members of the
governing body and the Executive Officer; and
      (4)   Measures relating to any facility or system adopted or enacted
pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste Management Act by the municipality
except for measures necessary to carry out contractual obligations provided for
in previously issued bonds, notes, warrants or other evidence of indebtedness.
   (C)   Measures subject to limited referendum shall ordinarily take effect 30
days after their passage by the governing body, including an override of any
veto, if necessary. Referendum petitions directed at measures subject to
limited referendum shall be filed for signature verification pursuant to §
36.25 within 30 days after such measure’s passage by the governing body,
including an override of any veto, if necessary, or after notice is first
published pursuant to division (D)(1)(c) below. If the necessary number of
signatures as provided in §
36.32 has been obtained within the time limitation, the effectiveness of the
measure shall be suspended unless approved by the voters.
   (D)   (1)   For any measure relating to the acquisition, construction,
installation, improvement or enlargement of public ways, public property,
utility systems or other capital projects or any measure relating to any
facility or system adopted or enacted pursuant to the Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act, the municipality may exempt all subsequent measures relating to
the same project from the referendum and limited referendum procedures provided
for in this subchapter by the following procedure:
         (a)   By holding a public hearing on the project, the time and place
of such hearing being published at least once not less than five days prior to
the date set for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
governing body’s jurisdiction;
         (b)   By passage of a measure approving the project, including an
override of a veto, if necessary, at a meeting held on any date subsequent to
the date of hearing; and
         (c)   After passage of such measure, including an override of a veto,
if necessary, by giving notice as follows.
            1.   For those projects for which applicable statutes require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, creating a district or otherwise
establishing the project, notice shall be given for such project by including
either as part of such ordinance or resolution or as part of any publicized
notice concerning such ordinance or resolution a statement that the project as
described in the ordinance or resolution is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum.
            2.   For projects for which applicable statutes do not require an
ordinance or resolution of necessity, notice shall be given by publication of a
notice concerning such projects stating in general terms the nature of the
project and the engineer’s estimate of costs of such project and stating that
the project described in the notice is subject to limited referendum for a
period of 30 days after the first publication of such notice and that, after
such 30-day period, the project and measures related to it will not be subject
to any further right of referendum. The notice required by this division (D)(1)
(c) shall be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within
the municipality and shall be published not later than 15 days after passage by
the governing body, including an override of a veto, if necessary, of a measure
approving the project.
      (2)   The right to hold such a hearing prior to the passage of the
measure by the governing body and give such notice after passage of such
measure by the governing body to obtain exemption for any particular project in
a manner described in this division (D) is optional and the municipality shall
not be required to hold such a hearing or give such notice for any particular
project.
   (E)   All measures, except as provided in divisions (A), (B) and (D) above,
shall be subject to the referendum procedure at any time after such measure has
been passed by the governing body, including an override of a veto, if
necessary, or enacted by the voters by initiative.
(Prior Code, § 1-1012) (Ord. 626, passed 8-3-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2527 and 18-2528
§ 36.32 REFERENDUM, PASSAGE.
   (A)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in number to
at least 15% of the qualified electors of the municipality has been filed with
the Clerk and verified pursuant to §
36.25, it shall be the duty of the governing body to reconsider the measure or
portion of such measure which is the object of the referendum. If the governing
body fails to repeal or amend the measure or portion thereof in the manner
proposed by the referendum, including an override of any veto, if necessary,
within 30 days from the date the governing body receives notification pursuant
to §
36.25, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be submitted to a vote of the
people at the next regularly scheduled primary or general election held within
the municipality. If the governing body desires to submit the measure to a vote
of the people at a special election prior to the next regularly scheduled
primary or general election held within the municipality, the governing body
shall by resolution direct the Clerk to cause the measure to be submitted at a
special election. Such resolution shall not be subject to referendum or limited
referendum.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a referendum petition bearing signatures equal in
number to at least 20% of the qualified voters of the municipality, which
requests that a special election be called to submit the referendum measure to
a vote of the people, has been filed with the Clerk and verified, it shall be
the duty of the governing body to reconsider the measure or portion of such
measure which is the object of the referendum.
      (2)   If the governing body fails to repeal or amend the measure or
portion thereof, in the manner proposed by the referendum, including an
override of any veto, if necessary, the Clerk shall cause the measure to be
submitted to a vote of the people at a special election called for such purpose
within 30 days from the date the governing body received notification. The date
of such special election shall not be less than 30 nor more than 60 days from
the date the governing body received notification.
   (C)   If a majority of the electors voting on the referendum measure shall
vote in favor of such measure, the law subject to the referendum shall be
repealed or amended. A measure repealed or amended by referendum shall not be
reenacted or returned to its original form except by a two-thirds’ majority of
the members of the governing body. No such attempt to reenact or return the
measure to its original form shall be made within one year of the repeal or
amendment of the measure by the electors. If the referendum measure does not
receive a majority vote, the ordinance shall immediately become effective or
remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-1013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2529 through 18-2531
§ 36.33 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The Election Act, so far as applicable and when not in conflict with
the Municipal Initiative and Referendum Act, shall apply to voting on
ordinances by the registered voters pursuant to the Municipal Initiative and
Referendum Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to procedures for initiatives
or referendums provided in Neb. RS 18-412 and 18-412.02 relating to municipal
light and power plants, Neb. RS 70-504, 70-650.01 and 70-650.02, relating to
public power districts and Neb. RS 80-203 through 80-205, relating to soldiers
and sailors monuments.
(Prior Code, § 1-1015)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2536 and 18-2537
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever knowingly or willfully makes a false affidavit or takes
a false oath regarding the qualifications of any person to sign petitions under
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a
limit of $300 on the fine.
      (2)   Whoever falsely makes or willfully destroys a petition or any part
thereof, or signs a false name thereto, or signs or files any petition knowing
the same or any part thereof to be falsely made or suppresses any petition, or
any part thereof, which has been duly filed, pursuant to Neb. RS 18-2501
through 18-2531 shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $500
on the fine.
      (3)   Whoever signs any petition under Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531
knowing that he or she is not a registered voter in the place where such
petition is made, aids or abets any other person in doing any of the acts
mentioned in this section, bribes or gives or pays any money or thing of value
to any person directly or indirectly to induce him or her to sign such
petition, or engages in any deceptive practice intended to induce any person to
sign a petition, shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor with a limit of $300
on the fine.
      (4)   Any Clerk who willfully refuses to comply with the provisions of
Neb. RS 18-2501 through 18-2531 or who willfully causes unreasonable delay in
the execution of his or her duties under such sections shall be guilty of a
Class I misdemeanor, but imprisonment shall not be included as part of the
punishment.
(Prior Code, § 1-1014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-2532 through 18-2535
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
      
54.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
      
55.   NATURAL GAS SERVICE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Discontinuance of service; notice procedure
   
50.02   Diversion of services, meter tampering, unauthorized reconnection,
prohibited; evidence
   
50.03   Diversion of services; civil action
   
50.04   Lien
   
50.05   Service deposit
   
50.06   Denial of service; when prohibited
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to discontinue utility services
and remove its properties if the charges for such services are not paid within
seven days after the date that the charges become delinquent. Charges become
delinquent if not paid in full on or before the twentieth day of each month.
Before any termination, the municipality shall first give notice by first class
mail or in person to any domestic subscriber whose service is proposed to be
terminated. If notice is given by first class mail, such mail shall be
conspicuously marked as to its importance. Service shall not be discontinued
for at least seven days, weekends and holidays excluded, after notice is sent
or given. As to any subscriber who has previously been identified as a welfare
recipient to the municipality by the Department of Health and Human Services,
such notice shall be by certified mail, and notice of such proposed termination
shall be given to the Department of Health and Human Services.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement of the intention to disconnect unless the domestic
subscriber either pays the bill or reaches an agreement with the municipality
regarding payment of the bill;
      (3)   The date upon which service will be disconnected if the domestic
subscriber does not take appropriate action;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the employee or
department to whom the domestic subscriber may address an inquiry or complaint;
      (5)   The domestic subscriber’s right, prior to the disconnection date,
to request a conference regarding any dispute over such proposed disconnection;
      (6)   A statement that the municipality may not disconnect service
pending the conclusion of the conference;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that disconnection may be postponed or
prevented upon presentation of a duly licensed physician’s certificate which
shall certify that the domestic subscriber or a resident within such
subscriber’s household has an existing illness or handicap which would cause
such subscriber or resident to suffer an immediate and serious health hazard by
the disconnection of the municipality’s service to that household. Such
certificate shall be filed with the municipality within five days of receiving
notice under this section and will prevent the disconnection of the
municipality’s service for a period of 30 days from such filing. Only one
postponement of disconnection shall be allowed under this division (B)(7) for
each incidence of nonpayment of any past due account:
      (8)   The cost that will be borne by the domestic subscriber for
restoration of service;
      (9)   A statement that the domestic subscriber may arrange with the
municipality for an installment payment plan;
      (10)   A statement to the effect that those domestic subscribers who are
welfare recipients may qualify for assistance in payment of their utility bill
and that they should contact their caseworker in that regard; and
      (11)   Any additional information not inconsistent with this section
which has received prior approval from the governing body.
   (C)   A domestic subscriber may dispute the proposed discontinuance of
service by notifying the municipality with a written statement that sets for
the reasons for the dispute and the relief requested. If a statement has been
made by the subscriber, a conference shall be held before the municipality may
discontinue services.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any disconnections or interruptions of
services made necessary by the municipality for reasons of repair or
maintenance or to protect the health or safety of the domestic subscriber or of
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-401) (Ord. 760, passed 1-6-1998; Ord. 892, passed 12-12-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1602 et seq.
§ 50.02 DIVERSION OF SERVICES, METER TAMPERING, UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION,
PROHIBITED; EVIDENCE.
   Any person who connects any instrument, device or contrivance with any wire
supplying or intended to supply electricity or electric current or connects any
pipe or conduit supplying water, without the knowledge and consent of the
municipality, in such manner that any portion thereof may be supplied to any
instrument by or at which electricity, electric current or water may be
consumed without passing through the meter provided for measuring or
registering the amount or quantity passing through it, and any person who
knowingly uses or knowingly permits the use of electricity, electric current or
water obtained in the above mentioned unauthorized ways shall be deemed guilty
of an offense. Any person who willfully injures, alters or by any instrument,
device or contrivance in any manner interferes with or obstructs the action or
operation of any meter made or provided for measuring or registering the amount
or quantity of electricity, or water passing through it, without the knowledge
and consent of the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense. When
electrical or water service has been disconnected pursuant to Neb. RS 70-1601
through 70-1615 or §
50.01, any person who reconnects such service without the knowledge and consent
of the municipality shall be deemed guilty of an offense. Proof of the
existence of any wire, pipe or conduit connection or reconnection or of any
injury, alteration or obstruction of a meter, as provided in this section,
shall be taken as prima facie evidence of the guilt of the person in possession
of the premises where such connection, reconnection, injury, alteration or
obstruction is proved to exist.
(Prior Code, § 3-404) (Ord. 722, passed 10-1-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 86-329 through 86-331
§ 50.03 DIVERSION OF SERVICES; CIVIL ACTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the definitions found in Neb. RS 25-
21,275 shall apply.
   (B)   (1)   The city utility may bring a civil action for damages against
any person who commits, authorizes, solicits, aids, abets or attempts
bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, when that act results in damages
to the utility. A city utility may bring a civil action for damages pursuant to
this section against any person receiving the benefit of utility service
through means of bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering.
      (2)   In any civil action brought pursuant to this section, the city
utility shall be entitled, upon proof of willful or intentional bypassing,
tampering or unauthorized metering, to recover as damages:
         (a)   The amount of actual damage or loss if the amount of the damage
or loss is susceptible of reasonable calculation; or
         (b)   Liquidated damages of $750 if the amount of actual damage or
loss is not susceptible of reasonable calculation.
      (3)   In addition to damage or loss under divisions (B)(2)(a) or (B)(2)
(b) above, the utility may recover all reasonable expenses and costs incurred
on account of the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering, including, but
not limited to, disconnection, reconnection, service calls, equipment, costs of
the suit and reasonable attorneys’ fees in cases within the scope of Neb. RS
25-1801.
(Neb. RS 25-21,276)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a tenant or
occupant at any premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is
proven to exist caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or
unauthorized metering if the tenant or occupant:
         (a)   Had access to the part of the utility supply system on the
premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to
exist; and
         (b)   Was responsible or partially responsible for payment, either
directly or indirectly, to the utility or to any other person for utility
services to the premises.
      (2)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that a customer at any
premises where bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering is proven to exist
caused or had knowledge of that bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering
if the customer controlled access to the part of the utility supply system on
the premises where the bypassing, tampering or unauthorized metering was proven
to exist.
(Neb. RS 25-21,277)
   (D)   The remedies provided by this section shall be deemed to be
supplemental and additional to powers conferred by existing laws. The remedies
provided in this section are in addition to and not in limitation of any other
civil or criminal statutory or common-law remedies.
(Neb. RS 25-21,278)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 LIEN.
   In addition to all other remedies, if a customer shall for any reason remain
indebted to the municipality for utilities service furnished, such amount due,
together with any rents and charges in arrears shall be considered a delinquent
utility rent which is hereby declared to be a lien upon the real estate for
which the same was furnished. Charges become delinquent if not paid in full by
the twentieth day of each month. The Municipal Clerk shall notify in writing or
cause to be notified in writing, all owners of premises or their agents
whenever their tenants or lessees are delinquent in the payment of the
utilities rent. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk to report to the
governing body a list of all unpaid accounts due for utilities service together
with a description of the premises served. The report shall be examined and, if
approved by the governing body, shall be certified by the Municipal Clerk to
the County Clerk to be collected as a special tax in the manner provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 3-403) (Ord. 892, passed 12-12-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-538, 17-925.01 and 18-503
§ 50.05 SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   Any applicant for water or electrical service shall be required to make a
combined utilities service deposit of $250 which shall be refunded in full to
record owners of real estate served hereby after one year of non-delinquent
water and electrical service account activity and to renters of real estate
served hereby after two consecutive years of non-delinquent water and
electrical service account activity; provided, however, that said combined
utilities service deposit shall be required from all persons upon their re-
application for water or electrical service after having moved from the city
and having moved back to the city, or after such water or electrical service
has been discontinued by the city for non-payment of such water or electrical
service, said combined utilities service deposits to then be subject to refund
as set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-406) (Ord. 904, passed 8-13-2013)
§ 50.06 DENIAL OF SERVICE; WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No applicant for the services of a public or private utility company
furnishing water, natural gas or electricity at retail in this municipality
shall be denied service because of unpaid bills for similar service which are
not collectible at law because of statutes of limitations or discharge in
bankruptcy proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 3-405) (Ord. 783, passed 4-6-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 70-1601
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 3-1001) (Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
Garbage and Refuse Collection
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Trash and waste
   
51.03   Dead animals
   
51.04   Authority
   
51.05   Notice; removal
   
51.06   Nuisance
   
51.07   Lien
   
51.08   Regulation
Dumping Grounds
   
51.20   Operation and funding
   
51.21   State regulations
GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen refuse, decayed waste, dead animals or anything that may
decompose and become offensive to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 4-201)
   RUBBISH. Discarded machinery, chips, pieces of wood, sticks, dead trees,
branches, bottles, broken glass, crockery, tin cans, boxes, papers, rags or any
other litter or debris that is not an immediate hazard to the health of the
residents of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-202)
   WASTE. Cinders, ashes, plaster, brick, stone, sawdust or sand.
(Prior Code, § 4-203)
   YARD WASTE. Grass and leaves.
(Prior Code, § 4-203.01)
(Ord. 704, passed 10-3-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-2016.01
§ 51.02 TRASH AND WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep in, on or about any
dwelling, building or premises, or any other place in the municipality, decayed
vegetable or animal substance, garbage or refuse matter of any kind that may be
injurious to the public health or offensive to the residents of the
municipality unless the same is kept in receptacles not exceeding a 30 gallon
capacity and as nearly airtight as may be practical. It shall be unlawful to
throw or sweep into the streets, alleys, parks or other public grounds any
dirt, paper, nails, pieces of glass, refuse, waste or rubbish of any kind.
   (B)   No person may permit garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse to collect, and
all persons shall remove the same from their property within 24 hours after
being notified to do so by a representative of the Board of Health. Any person
having garbage, rubbish, waste or refuse that is subject to decay or
fermentation within a short period of time shall be required to place the same
in a standard garbage can with a tight cover or a durable plastic container
that is securely tied at its opening.
   (C)   All persons shall have the contents of their garbage cans removed at
least once a week in residential areas and twice a week in business areas.
(Prior Code, § 4-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2106
§ 51.03 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be immediately removed and buried by the owner of
such animals; and if the owner of such animal cannot be found within two hours
after discovering the same, then such animal shall be removed by and at the
expense of the municipality. Dead animals shall not be buried within the
corporate limits of the municipality except in areas designated by the
governing body, nor within one mile thereof, nor in or above the course of
groundwater that is used for drinking purposes by the municipality or its
inhabitants. Such animals may, however, be buried in the municipal dumping
ground.
(Prior Code, § 4-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-114 and 17-123
§ 51.04 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may provide for the collection and removal
of garbage or refuse found upon any lot or land within the corporate limits or
zoning jurisdiction of the city or upon the streets, roads or alleys abutting
such lot or land which constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   The city may require the owner, duly authorized agent or tenant of
such lot or land to remove the garbage or refuse from such lot or land and
streets, roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-206) (Ord. 539, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1303
§ 51.05 NOTICE; REMOVAL.
   Notice that removal of garbage or refuse is necessary shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the tenant if any. Such notice
shall be provided by personal service or by certified mail. After providing
such notice, the city through its proper offices shall, in addition to other
proper remedies, remove the garbage or refuse, or cause it to be removed, from
such lot or land and streets, roads or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 4-207) (Ord. 539, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1303
§ 51.06 NUISANCE.
   If the Mayor of the city declares that the accumulation of such garbage or
refuse upon any lot or land constitutes an immediate nuisance and hazard to
public health and safety, said city shall remove the garbage or refuse, or
cause it to be removed, from such lot or land within 48 hours after notice by
personal service or following receipt of a certified letter in accordance with
§
51.05 if such garbage or refuse has not been removed.
(Prior Code, § 4-208) (Ord. 539, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1303
§ 51.07 LIEN.
   Whenever the city removes any garbage or refuse, or causes it to be removed,
from any lot or land pursuant to this chapter, it shall, after a hearing
conducted by the Mayor and City Council, assess the cost of the removal against
such lot or land.
(Prior Code, § 4-209) (Ord. 539, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1303
§ 51.08 REGULATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate or participate in
the removal of garbage for a fee until and unless said person has contracted
with, or has received a license from, the governing body. Application for a
license may be made at the office of the Municipal Clerk upon a blank form
supplied by the municipality. Said application shall require all information
and documents which the governing body deems necessary to determine whether or
not to grant a license. If the governing body decides to grant the license, the
Municipal Clerk will issue to the applicant said license which will entitle him
or her to collect, remove and transport any garbage for a fee in, over or upon
any street or public way in the municipality.
   (B)   Any license so issued shall be subject to revocation by the governing
body after proper notice and a hearing if requested by the licensee. Said
licensee shall be liable for all bonds, fees and other rules and regulations
set by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 10-701) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2105
DUMPING GROUNDS
§ 51.20 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal dumping grounds
through the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of
defraying the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the municipal
dumping grounds may each year levy a tax, not to exceed the maximum limit
prescribed by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and
personal property within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The
revenue from said tax shall be known as the Dump Fund and shall remain in the
custody of the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the
direct management and control of the municipal dump and shall faithfully carry
out the duties of his or her position. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient
management of the dumping grounds subject to the supervision and review of the
governing body.
   (B)   The governing body shall provide by resolution for the management and
operation of the dumping grounds and shall set the rates to be charged for
services rendered by ordinance and file the same in the office of the Municipal
Clerk for public inspection at any reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 3-901)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2101 through 19-2106
§ 51.21 STATE REGULATIONS.
   The municipality shall apply for a license to operate the municipal dumping
grounds. Application shall be made to the Department of Environmental Control
on forms provided by the Department. No fee shall be charged for such
licensing. Each license so issued shall expire five years following the date of
issuance but may be renewed if the municipality has complied with the
provisions of Neb. RS 81-1501 through 81-1532 and the rules and regulations
adopted thereunder. It shall be the duty of the Utilities Superintendent to
comply with the rules and regulations prescribed by the Department of
Environmental Control for the use and operation of the municipal dumping
grounds.
(Prior Code, § 3-902)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-1517 and 81-1519
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operating and funding
   
52.03   Consumer application; service deposit
   
52.04   Service to nonresidents
   
52.05   Water service contracts
   
52.06   Mandatory hookup
   
52.07   Installation
   
52.08   Prohibition of lead pipes, solder and flux
   
52.09   Repairs and maintenance
   
52.10   Meter tampering; plumbing regulations
   
52.11   Single premises
   
52.12   Restricted use
   
52.13   Fire hydrants
   
52.14   Pollution
   
52.15   Inspection
   
52.16   Reports to Utilities Superintendent
   
52.17   Destruction of property
   
52.18   Plumbing; license required; time
   
52.19   Stop and waste cocks
   
52.20   House boilers
   
52.21   Fluoride
   
52.22   Swing valve required
   
52.23   Wellhead protection area
   
52.24   Declaration by Mayor of emergency
   
52.25   Protection required; type and location
   
52.26   Backflow prevention devices; installation, testing
   
52.27   Unsafe physical connection prohibited; potential backflow hazards
   
52.28   Minimum rates
   
52.29   Water rates
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAIN. Any pipe other than a supply or service pipe that is used for the
purpose of carrying water to, and dispersing the same in the municipality.
   SEPARATE PREMISES. More than one consumer procuring water from the same
service or supply pipe. The second premises may be a separate dwelling,
apartment, building or structure used for a separate business.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe extending from the shut-off, stop box or curb cock at
or near the lot line to and beyond the property line of the consumer to the
location on the premises where the water is to be dispersed.
   SUPPLY PIPE. Any pipe tapped into a main and extending from there to a point
at or near the lot line of the consumer’s premises where the shut-off, stop box
or curb cock is located.
(Prior Code, § 3-102)
§ 52.02 OPERATING AND FUNDING.
   The municipality owns and operates the Municipal Water Department through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the Municipal Water
Department may each year levy a tax, not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed
by state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said
tax shall be known as the Water Fund and shall remain in the custody of the
Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the Municipal Water Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. The Utilities Superintendent shall
have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and
efficient management of the Water Department subject to the supervision and
review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-101)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-531, 17-534 and 19-1305
§ 52.03 CONSUMER APPLICATION; SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   Every person desiring a supply of water must make application therefor to
the Utilities Superintendent. Any applicant shall be required to make a
utilities service deposit in such amount as set forth in §
50.05, and a connection fee in the amount of $5. Water service accounts shall
be deemed to be delinquent if not paid within ten days from the due dates
thereof. Water may not be supplied to any house or private service pipe except
upon the order of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 496, passed 5-6-1985; Ord. 792, passed 12-8-1999;
Ord. 904, passed 8-13-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.04 SERVICE TO NONRESIDENTS.
   The Department shall not supply water service to any person outside the
corporate limits without special permission from the governing body; provided,
that the entire cost of laying mains, service pipe and supply pipe shall be
paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate the
municipality to provide water service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-104)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2701
§ 52.05 WATER SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The municipality, through its Water Department, shall furnish water
to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a street or alley in
which a commercial main now is or may hereafter be laid. The municipality may
furnish water to persons within its corporate limits whose premises do not abut
a street or alley in which a municipal commercial main is now or may hereafter
be laid and may also furnish water to persons whose premises are situated
outside the corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and water
rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for water service and shall be considered a part of
the contract between every consumer now or hereafter served.
      (2)   Without further formality, the making of application on the part of
any applicant or the use or consumption of water service by present consumers
thereof and the furnishing of water service to said consumer shall constitute a
contract between the consumer and the municipality, to which said contract both
parties are bound. If the consumer shall violate any of the provisions of said
contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the governing body may
hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent or his or her agent, may cut off
or disconnect the water service from the building or premises or place of such
violation. No further connection for water service to said building, premises
or place shall again be made save or except by order of said Superintendent or
his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-105)
   (B)   Change in premises. Contracts for water service are not transferable.
Any person wishing to change from one location to another shall make a new
application and sign a new contract. If any consumer shall move from the
premises where service is furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire
or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent,
who shall cause the water service to be shut off at said premises. If the
consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be charged for all
water used on said premises until the Utilities Superintendent is otherwise
advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-116)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.06 MANDATORY HOOKUP.
   All persons within 300 feet of a water main shall be required, upon notice
by the governing body, to hookup with the municipal water system.
(Prior Code, § 3-115)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-539
§ 52.07 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Installation procedure. In making excavations in streets, alleys or
sidewalks for the purpose of installing pipe or making repairs, the paving,
stones and earth must be removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion
the least inconvenience to the public and provide for adequate drainage. No
person shall leave an excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at
any time without a barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After
service pipes are laid, the streets, alleys and sidewalks shall be restored to
good condition. If the excavation in any street, alley or sidewalk is left open
or unfinished for a period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent
shall have the duty to finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred
shall be charged to the consumer. All installations or repairs of pipes require
two inspections by the Utilities Superintendent. The first inspection shall be
made when connections or repairs are completed and before the pipes are
covered. The second inspection shall be made after the dirt work is completed
and the service is restored. It is the customer’s responsibility to notify the
Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each inspection. All
installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly in accordance
with the rules, regulations and specifications prescribed for such installation
by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that said rules, regulations and
specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-106)
   (B)   Expense.
      (1)   The municipality shall pay the cost of tapping the main and
installing the meter. No person other than the Utilities Superintendent or his
or her duly authorized agent shall tap the water main. The customer shall pay a
tap fee as follows.
 
4" saddle with 1" corporation (corp.) $150
4" saddle with 1.5" corp              $200
4" saddle with 2" corp                $250
6" saddle with 1" corp.               $150
6" saddle with 1.5" corp              $200
6" saddle with 2" corp                $250
For all larger sizes of saddle or larger sizes of corporation, the fee shall
be $125 per corporation inch
 
      (2)   The customer shall at his or her own expense bring water service
from the main and upon his or her own premises and shall employ a licensed
plumber who shall install water service to the place of disbursement. The
customer shall supply and pay for the installation of the supply pipe, service
pipe and the curb stop. The extension of commercial mains into territory within
the corporate limits which is not supplied with water service may be made by
means of water extension districts.
(Prior Code, § 3-107)
(Ord. 685, passed 12-6-1994; Ord. 792, passed 12-8-1999; Ord. 921, passed 10-
11-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.08 PROHIBITION OF LEAD PIPES, SOLDER AND FLUX.
   (A)   Any pipe, solders or flux used in the installation or repair of any
residential or nonresidential facility which is connected to the public water
supply system shall be lead free.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, LEAD FREE shall mean:
      (1)   Solders and flux: not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)    Pipe and pipe fittings: not more than 8% lead.
(Prior Code, § 3-127) (Ord. 534, passed 6-7-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 71-5301
§ 52.09 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The customer shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all supply
pipe between the commercial main to the place of disbursement. The municipality
shall repair or replace, as the case may be, all incorporations between supply
pipes and commercial mains. When leaks occur in service pipes, the Utilities
Superintendent shall shut off water service until the leak is repaired at the
expense of the customer to the satisfaction of the Utilities Superintendent.
All water meters shall be kept in repair by the municipality at the expense of
the municipality. When meters are worn out, they shall be replaced and reset by
the municipality at the expense of the municipality; provided, that if the
customer permits or allows a water meter to be damaged, injured or destroyed
through his or her own recklessness, carelessness or neglect so that the meter
must be repaired or replaced, the Utilities Superintendent shall bill and
collect from the customer the cost of such meter repair or replacement in the
same manner as water rent is collected. Permitting a water meter to be damaged
or destroyed by freezing shall always be considered negligence on the part of
the customer.
   (B)   All meters shall be tested at the customer’s request at the expense of
the customer any reasonable number of times; provided, that if the test shows
the water meter to be running 2% or more fast, the expense of such test shall
be borne by the municipality. The municipality reserves the right to test any
water service meter at any time and, if said meter is found to be beyond repair
the municipality, shall always have the right to place a new meter on the
customer’s water service fixtures at municipal expense. Should a consumer’s
meter fail to register properly, the customer shall be charged for water during
the time the meter is out of repair on the basis of the monthly consumption
during the same month of the preceding year; provided, that if no such basis
for comparison exists, the customer shall be charged such amount as may be
reasonably fixed by the Utilities Superintendent. It shall be unlawful for any
person to tamper with any water meter, or by any means or device to divert
water from the service pipe so that the same shall not pass through said meter,
or, while passing through said meter, to cause the same to register
inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 512, passed 3-3-1987; Ord. 554, passed 2-7-1989)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.10 METER TAMPERING; PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to tamper with any water meter
or by means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the service
pipe so that the same will not pass through said meter or while passing through
said meter to cause the same to register inaccurately. It is further declared
unlawful for any person to install plumbing in connection with the dealing in
or selling of plumbing material or supplies within the corporate limits of the
city unless such plumbing or water service shall be installed in accordance
with the provisions of the Plumbing Code as adopted in §
150.066.
(Prior Code, § 3-122) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11 SINGLE PREMISES.
   (A)   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or allow them to
take water from his or her premises, nor after water is supplied into a
building shall any person make or employ a plumber or other person to make a
tap or connection with the pipe upon the premises for alteration, extension or
attachment without the written permission of the Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any person to tamper with any water
meter or by means of any contrivance or device to divert the water from the
service pipe so that the water will not pass through the meter or while passing
through said meter to cause the meter to register inaccurately.
(Prior Code, § 3-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.12 RESTRICTED USE.
   The governing body or the Utilities Superintendent may order a reduction in
the use of water or shut off the water on any premises in the event of a water
shortage due to fire or other good and sufficient cause. The municipality shall
not be liable for any damages caused by shutting off the supply of water of any
consumer while the system or any part thereof is undergoing repairs or when
there is a shortage of water due to circumstances over which the municipality
has no control.
(Prior Code, § 3-112)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.13 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared to
be public hydrants, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than members
of the Municipal Fire Department under the orders of the Fire Chief, or the
Assistant Fire Chief, or members of the Water Department to open or attempt to
open any of the hydrants and draw water from the same, or in any manner to
interfere with the hydrants.
(Prior Code, § 3-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.14 POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pollute or attempt to pollute any
stream or source of water for the supply of the Municipal Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 3-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-536
§ 52.15 INSPECTION.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or his or her duly authorized agents, shall
have free access, at any reasonable time, to all parts of each premises and
building to, or in which, water is delivered for the purpose of examining the
pipes, fixtures and other portions of the system to ascertain whether there is
any disrepair or unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-117)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.16 REPORTS TO UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the municipality to report to the Utilities
Superintendent all cases of leakage and waste in the use of water and all
violations of this code relating to the Water Department. They shall have the
additional duty of enforcing the observance of all such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 3-118)
§ 52.17 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the Municipal Water Department. No person may deposit anything
in a stop box or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use
of any of the above mentioned property without the written permission of the
Utilities Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.18 PLUMBING; LICENSE REQUIRED; TIME.
   (A)   Licensed plumber. It shall be unlawful for any plumber or pipefitter
to do any work upon any of the pipes or appurtenances of the system of
waterworks, or to make any connection with or extension of the supply pipes of
any consumer taking water from said system until such plumber or pipefitter
shall have first procured a license or permit from the municipality. All
plumbing shall be done in the manner required by the Utilities Superintendent.
Said licensed plumber shall be at all times subject to the inspection and
approval of the Utilities Superintendent, and it shall be further unlawful to
cover or conceal willfully any defective or unsatisfactory plumbing work.
(Prior Code, § 3-120)
   (B)   Time. All taps or plumbing work done on or to the municipal water
system shall be done between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 3-121)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.19 STOP AND WASTE COCKS.
   There shall be a stop and waste cock attached to every supply pipe at a
point in the building so as to permit water being turned off in frosty weather
and the pipes being emptied.
(Prior Code, § 3-123)
§ 52.20 HOUSE BOILERS.
   All house boilers shall be constructed with one or more air holes near the
top of the inlet pipe and sufficiently strong to bear the pressure of the
atmosphere under vacuum. The stop cocks and other appurtenances must be
sufficiently strong to bear the pressure and run off the water in the mains.
All persons taking water shall keep their own service pipes, stop cocks and
apparatus in good repair and protect them from frost at their own expense and
shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water.
(Prior Code, § 3-124)
§ 52.21 FLUORIDE.
   Fluoride shall not be added to the water system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 869, passed 12-10-2008)
§ 52.22 SWING VALVE REQUIRED.
   To prevent the siphoning of water from a structure back into the municipal
water system when it becomes necessary to disrupt water service and to prevent
damage to customer’s property caused by such siphoning, all customers applying
for new water service and all customers presently serviced may be required in
the discretion of the Utilities Superintendent to have placed on the line a
swing valve (backflow prevention device) of such size and at such location as
is approved by the Utilities Superintendent. If a present customer is required
to place a swing valve on his or her line, the Municipal Clerk or Utilities
Superintendent shall give the property owner notice by personally serving
written notice or by registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last
known address of such owner or the agent of such owner, directing the placement
of such swing valve. If within 30 days of mailing or giving such notice, the
property owner fails or neglects to cause such placements to be made, the
Utilities Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost
upon the property served by such water line. Reasons for requiring swing valves
includes, but is not limited to, installation of an underground sprinkler
system, installation or replacement of a water heater and installation or
replacement of a water softener.
(Prior Code, § 3-126)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537
§ 52.23 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA means the
surface and subsurface area surrounding a water well or well field, supplying a
public water system, through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move
toward and reach such water or well field.
   (B)   The city designates a Wellhead Protection Area for the purpose of
protection of the public water supply system. The boundaries of the Wellhead
Protection Area are delineated based upon a map prepared by the State
Department of Environmental Quality, Wellhead Protection Program, dated
September of 2019, which is on file at the office of the City Clerk and is
available for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 3-131) (Ord. 766, passed 6-9-1998; Ord. 898, passed 10-9-2012;
Ord. 946, passed 10-8-2019)
§ 52.24 DECLARATION BY MAYOR OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to suspend the use of water for fountains,
or for sprinkling yards, lawns and gardens, or for any other purpose whenever,
in the opinion of the Mayor, the public exigency may require it. The Mayor is
authorized and empowered to declare the existence of any emergency relating to
the available water supply of the municipal water system, and to impose
restrictions on the use of water during such emergency. Whenever the Mayor
shall determine that the remaining available water supply is critically low,
from whatever cause, the Mayor may declare the existence of an emergency and
impose reasonable restrictions on the use of such water. It shall be unlawful
for any person to fail to observe any such restriction so imposed by the Mayor;
provided, that public announcement of such restriction has been made.
   (B)   The city may turn off the water supplied to the premises of any person
who, after having been notified of the imposition of such emergency
restrictions on the use of water, disregards such restrictions and such supply
of water shall not again be turned on until the cost for turning the water off
and turning the water on has been paid to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-132) (Ord. 902, passed 5-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.25 PROTECTION REQUIRED; TYPE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to any other requirements of the ordinances of the
municipality, any person wishing to connect to the public water supply system
shall pay the costs of a backflow prevention device and the installation of
such device on the supply pipe or service pipe as deemed necessary by the
Utilities Superintendent. All installations shall be performed by a State
Department of Health Grade VI certified water operator.
   (B)   The customer shall retain ownership of the backflow prevention device,
and it shall be the responsibility of the customer to maintain and keep the
device in good repair as determined by the Utilities Superintendent.
   (C)   The customer shall allow the municipality at least one time annually
to test the backflow prevention device, at the customer’s expense, if the
device is equipped with a test port. Alternatively, such customer may certify
to the municipality at least one time annually that the backflow prevention
device has been duly tested as required herein, if the device is equipped with
a test port. All testing shall be performed by a State Department of Health
Grade VI certified water operator.
   (D)   All certifications shall be made on a form available at the office of
the Municipal Clerk, and a record of such tests shall be kept on file at the
office of the Municipal Clerk as may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-130) (Ord. 694, passed 8-1-1995)
§ 52.26 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES; INSTALLATION, TESTING.
   (A)   A customer of the Municipal Water Department may be required by the
Utilities Superintendent to install and maintain a properly located backflow
prevention device at his or her expense appropriate to the potential hazards
set forth in Title 179, State Department of Health, and approved by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   The customer shall make application to the Utilities Superintendent to
install a required backflow prevention device on a form provided by the
municipality. The application shall contain at a minimum the name and address
of the applicant, the type of potential hazard required, protection and the
type of backflow device to be installed including brand and model number.
   (C)   The Utilities Superintendent shall approve or disapprove the
application based on his or her opinion of whether such installation will
protect the municipal water distribution system from potential backflow and
backsiphonage hazards.
   (D)   The installation of the device shall be subject to all other sections
of this code dealing with installation of plumbing, including the use of a
plumber licensed by the municipality, if applicable.
   (E)   Such customer shall also certify to the municipality at least one time
annually that the backflow prevention device has been tested by a State
Department of Health Grade VI certified water operator if the device is
equipped with a test port. Such certification shall be made on a form available
at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (F)   Any decision of the Utilities Superintendent may be appealed to the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-128) (Ord. 614, passed 1-5-1993)
§ 52.27 UNSAFE PHYSICAL CONNECTION PROHIBITED; POTENTIAL BACKFLOW HAZARDS.
   (A)   No customer or other person shall cause, allow or create any physical
connection between the municipal water distribution system and any pipes,
pumps, hydrants, tanks, steam condensate returns, engine jackets, heat
exchangers, other water supplied or any other connection whereby potentially
unsafe or contaminating materials may be discharged or drawn into the municipal
water distribution system.
   (B)   At least one time every five years, customers of the municipal water
distribution and supply system shall be required to assess and report potential
backflow and backsiphonage hazards to the municipality on a form supplied by
the municipality to the customer. The customer shall take any steps necessary
for protection of public health and safety as determined by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-129) (Ord. 613, passed 1-5-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28 MINIMUM RATES.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the minimum rate provided by
ordinance unless and until the consumer shall, by written order, direct the
Utilities Superintendent to shut off the water at the stop box, in which case
he or she shall not be liable thereafter for water rental until the water is
turned on again.
(Prior Code, § 3-109)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-542
§ 52.29 WATER RATES.
   The following is established as a tariff of water rates to consumers of the
waterworks system of the city based on monthly consumption.
   (A)   Rate charge. The rate charge is the sum of $20, plus $3 for each
thousand gallons, or fraction thereof; or plus $2.25 for each 100 cubic feet or
fraction thereof.
   (B)   Meter readings; billing; service turned off for nonpayment. All meters
of consumers shall be read by the Utilities Superintendent, or his or her
agent, between the fifteenth day of the quarter during which water service is
used and the first day of the succeeding quarter. The Utilities Superintendent,
or his or her duly authorized agents who are charged with the duty of reading
water meters, shall, as said water meters are read, make statements for each
consumer, based on the quarterly meter readings and shall enter all charges on
the books of the Water Department. All bills for water service shall be due on
the tenth day of each month following the date said bills are sent, shall be
delinquent if not paid by the twentieth day thereof and shall be payable to the
Utilities Superintendent or some other agent of the city designated for the
purpose of receiving water rents and charges at the city office. If said water
bills are not paid by the twentieth day of the month, the water service of the
consumer shall be turned off, pursuant to § 50.01, and shall not be turned on
again until said bill and a late charge of $5 is paid. Statements for water
bills may be mailed, when ordered by the Council on or about their due date.
The Utilities Superintendent may, whenever he or she deems it advisable or
necessary, declare any water bill due at any time and proceed to collect the
same; and, in his or her discretion, he or she may require charges for water
service to be paid in advance.
   (C)   Discrimination. No water service shall be furnished to any consumer
under any other rate than is provided by this section.
   (D)   Temporary users. Persons, including other branches or agencies of the
city government, desiring to use water temporarily, shall pay such rates as the
Utilities Superintendent, with the approval of the Council, shall fix.
(Prior Code, § 3-110) (Ord. 514, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 549, passed 2-7-1989;
Ord. 617, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 680, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 683, passed 12-6-
1994; Ord. 787, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. 830, passed 12-10-2003; Ord. 851, passed
3-14-2006; Ord. 900, passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 929, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 956,
passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 973, passed 10-10-2023; Ord. 980, passed 6-11-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-537 and 17-542
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Operation and funding
   
53.003   Application for permit
   
53.004   Sewer contract
   
53.005   Service contracts not transferable
   
53.006   Destruction of property
Public Sewers Required
   
53.020   Unlawful deposit of waste
   
53.021   Unlawful discharge of untreated sewage
   
53.022   Cesspools, privies and septic tanks prohibited
Private Sewage Disposal
   
53.035   Permit required
   
53.036   Specifications
   
53.037   Maintenance
   
53.038   Additional requirements
Building Sewer Installation
   
53.050   Permit required
   
53.051   Classification; permit application; fee
   
53.052   Expense
   
53.053   Repairs and replacement
   
53.054   Single premises
   
53.055   Use of existing sewers
   
53.056   Construction codes
   
53.057   Unlawful connection
   
53.058   Inspections
   
53.059   Excavations
   
53.060   Installation procedure
Wastewater
   
53.075   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, cooling water and process
water
   
53.076   Flammable, toxic, corrosive and obstructive substances
   
53.077   Special prohibitions
   
53.078   Rejection, pretreatment, control of discharge rate
   
53.079   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.080   Maintenance by owner
   
53.081   Control manholes/sampling stations
   
53.082   Special exceptions permitted; use fee surcharge
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.095   Compliance; inspections; injury liability
   
53.096   Notice and liability
   
53.097   Municipal powers
Rates and Fees
   
53.110   Classification
   
53.111   Sewer funds
   
53.112   Sewer rates
   
53.113   Surcharges
   
53.114   Determination of proportional rates
   
53.115   Private water supply rates
   
53.116   Rate saving clause
   
53.117   Lien
   
53.118   Sewer use charges; when due
   
53.119   User charge review
   
53.120   User notification
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a house
or building drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste or
other drainage pipes inside the walls of any building or house.
   BUILDING OR HOUSE SEWER. The part of a house or building drainage system
extending from the house or building drain to its connection with the main
sewer.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine, in parts per million by
weight, which must be added to sewage to produce a specified residual chlorine
content, or to meet the requirements of some other objective, in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   LOCAL VENTILATING PIPE. Any pipe through which foul air is removed from a
room or fixture.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. Sewage not exceeding maximum tolerance of contamination of
300 milligrams per liter BOD or 350 milligrams per liter of suspended solids.
   PARTS PER MILLION. A weight-to-weight ratio; the PARTS PER MILLION value
multiplied by the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED. Shredding to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers
with no particle larger than one-half inch in diameter.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system whose waste does not exceed in strength the concentration values
established a representative of normal sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage and industrial wastes.
   SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   SOIL PIPE. Any pipe which conveys the discharge of water closets with or
without the discharge from other fixtures to the house or building drain.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent editions of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage
and Industrial Waste, published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent of the city, or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and are removable by filtering.
   TRAP. A fitting or device so constructed as to prevent the passage of air or
gas through a pipe without materially affecting the flow of sewage or waste
through it.
   TRAP SEAL. The vertical distance between the crown weir and the dip of the
trap.
   UNPOLLUTED WATERS. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VENT PIPE. Any pipe provided to ventilate a house or building drainage
system and to prevent trap siphonage and back pressure.
   WASTE PIPE. Any pipe which receives the discharge of any fixture, except
water closets, and conveys the same to the house drain, soil pipe or waste
stack.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structure for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 3-202)
§ 53.002 OPERATION AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The municipality owns and operates the municipal sewer system through
the Sewer Commissioner.
   (B)   The governing body, for the purpose of defraying the cost of the
operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) of the municipal sewer system,
may establish a user charge system based on actual use and revise the charges,
if necessary, to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance
and replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
      (2)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
      (3)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
   (C)   The revenue from said user charge system based on actual use shall be
known as the Sewer Maintenance Fund. The Utilities Superintendent shall have
the direct management and control of the Sewer Department and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the sanitary and efficient management of the
Department subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149 and 17-925.01
§ 53.003 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person wishing to connect with the sewer system shall make an
application therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. The Superintendent may
require any applicant to make a service deposit in such amount as has been set
by the governing body and placed on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
Sewer service may not be supplied to any house or building except upon the
order of the Superintendent. The Department shall not supply sewer service to
any person outside the corporate limits without special permission from the
governing body; provided, that the entire cost of pipe and other installation
charges shall be paid by such consumers. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to provide sewer service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-149, 17-902 and 19-2701
§ 53.004 SEWER CONTRACT.
   (A)   The municipality through the Municipal Sewer Department shall furnish
sewer services to persons within its corporate limits whose premises abut a
street or alley in which a commercial main is now laid. Persons within its
corporate limits whose premises do not abut a street or alley in which a
commercial main is now laid may make an application therefor to the Utilities
Superintendent who shall submit said application to the governing body for
approval.
   (B)   Should the governing body grant said approval, the entire cost of pipe
and other installation charges for said sewer main shall be paid by the person,
or persons, to whom approval has been granted. The municipality may also
furnish sewer service to persons whose premises are situated outside the
corporate limits of the municipality, as and when, according to law, the
governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and sewer rental
rates hereinafter named in this chapter shall be considered a part of every
application hereafter made for sewer service and shall be considered a part of
a contract between every customer now or hereafter served.
   (C)   Without further formality, the making of the application on the part
of any applicant or the use of sewer service by present customers thereof shall
constitute a contract between the customer and the municipality to which said
contract both parties are bound. If the customer shall violate any of the
provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations that the
governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or his or her
agent, may cut off or disconnect the sewer service from the building or
premises of such violation. No further connection for sewer service to said
building or premises shall again be made, save or except by order of the
Superintendent or his or her agent.
(Prior Code, § 3-204) (Ord. 942, passed 2-27-2019) Penalty, see §
53.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-901 and 17-902
§ 53.005 SERVICE CONTRACTS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Contracts for sewer service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any customer shall move from the premises where service is
furnished, or if said premises is destroyed by fire or other casualty, he or
she shall at once inform the Utilities Superintendent who shall cause the sewer
service to be shut off from said premises. If the customer should fail to give
notice, he or she shall be charged for that period of time until the official
in charge of sewers is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
§ 53.006 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person or persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-247) Penalty, see §
53.999
PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.020 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
municipality or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-218) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED SEWAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
municipality, or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of said municipality, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-219) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 CESSPOOLS, PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3-220) Penalty, see §
53.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.035 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Fee. Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the municipality, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $10 shall be paid to the
municipality at the time the application is filed.
(Prior Code, § 3-223)
   (B)   Permit, when effective; inspections. A permit for a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-224)
§ 53.036 SPECIFICATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Department of Public
Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities when the area of the lot is
less than 10,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-225) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.037 MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-226) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.038 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in §
53.037 shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that
may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-227)
BUILDING SEWER INSTALLATION
§ 53.050 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-228) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 CLASSIFICATION; PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the municipality. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of
$10 shall be paid to the municipality at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   In addition, the customer, upon approval of his or her application for
sewer service, shall pay to the municipality a $150 tap fee which shall
compensate the municipality for the expense of processing his or her
application and tapping the sewer main.
(Prior Code, § 3-229) (Ord. 843, passed 6-14-2005)
§ 53.052 EXPENSE.
   All costs and expense incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
municipality from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-230)
§ 53.053 REPAIRS AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   The Municipal Sewer Department may require the owner of any property
which is within the municipality and connected to the public sewers or drains
to repair or replace any connection line which serves the owner’s property and
is broken, clogged or otherwise in need of repair or replacement. The property
owner’s duty to repair or replace such a connection line shall include those
portions upon the owner’s property and those portions upon public property or
easements up to and including the point of junction with the public main.
   (B)   (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall give the property owner notice by
registered letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of such
owner or the agent of such owner, directing the repair or replacement of such
connection line.
      (2)   If, within 30 days of mailing, such notice the property owner fails
or neglects to cause such repairs or replacements to be made, the Utilities
Superintendent may cause such work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by such connection.
(Prior Code, § 3-231)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1748
§ 53.054 SINGLE PREMISES.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, but the municipality does not and will
not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting
from any such single connection aforementioned.
(Prior Code, § 3-232)
§ 53.055 USE OF EXISTING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-233)
§ 53.056 CONSTRUCTION CODES.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
municipality. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof,
the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the municipality, or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and
verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Prior Code, § 3-234)
§ 53.057 UNLAWFUL CONNECTION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such connection is
approved by the Superintendent for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage; provided, that if responsibility can be determined, the party
responsible for disposal of polluted surface drainage into the public sanitary
sewer shall pay a user charge equivalent to the cost of treating the polluted
drainage.
(Prior Code, § 3-235) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.058 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-236)
§ 53.059 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 3-237)
§ 53.060 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   In making excavations in streets, alleys or sidewalks for the purpose of
installing pipe, or making repairs, the paving, stones and earth must be
removed and deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to
the public and provide for adequate drainage. No person shall leave an
excavation made in the street, alley or sidewalk open at any time without a
barricade, and during the night, warning lights. After the house sewer is laid,
the public ways and property shall be restored to good condition. If the
excavation in the public ways and property is left open or unfinished for a
period of 24 hours or more, the Utilities Superintendent shall have the duty to
finish or correct the work, and all expenses so incurred shall be charged to
the owner, occupant or lessee of the property. All installations or repairs of
pipes require two inspections by the Utilities Superintendent. The first
inspection shall be made when connections or repairs are complete and before
the pipes are covered. The second inspection shall be made after the dirt work
is completed and the service restored. It is the customers responsibility to
notify the Utilities Superintendent at the time the work is ready for each
inspection. All installation shall be done under the supervision and strictly
in accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications for such
installation prescribed by the Utilities Superintendent; provided, that said
rules, regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-238)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-503
WASTEWATER
§ 53.075 STORMWATER, SURFACE WATER, GROUNDWATER, COOLING WATER AND PROCESS
WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including
interior and exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water or
unpolluted industrial waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. The
contributor of any identifiable discharge of polluted water to the sanitary
sewer system shall be held responsible for reimbursing the municipality for
such costs. The costs shall be determined by the Superintendent with the
approval of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-239) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.076 FLAMMABLE, TOXIC, CORROSIVE AND OBSTRUCTIVE SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage facilities, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders; and/or
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having:
         (a)   A five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   An average daily flow greater than 2% of the average sewage flow
of the municipality; or
         (d)   A chlorine requirement greater than demanded by normal sewage as
evaluated by the municipality’s consulting engineer shall be subject to the
review of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million by
weight;
      (2)   Reduce the suspended solids to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes; or
      (4)   Reduce the chlorine requirement to conform with normal sewage.
   (C)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Prior Code, § 3-240) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.077 SPECIAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor three-fourths’
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters of wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids, (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 3-241) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.078 REJECTION, PRETREATMENT, CONTROL OF DISCHARGE RATE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
53.077, and which, in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
53.082.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-242)
§ 53.079 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by the owner’s personnel must be performed by currently licensed
waste disposal firms.
(Prior Code, § 3-243)
§ 53.080 MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-244)
§ 53.081 CONTROL MANHOLES/SAMPLING STATIONS.
   (A)   When required; installation and maintenance. When required by the
Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-245)
   (B)   Method. All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter, shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event no special manhole
has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 3-246)
§ 53.082 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS PERMITTED; USE FEE SURCHARGE.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the municipality and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the municipality for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 3-248)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.095 COMPLIANCE; INSPECTIONS; INJURY LIABILITY.
   (A)   Inspections generally. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the municipality bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representatives
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries, beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 3-249)
   (B)   Injury liability. While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly
authorized employees of the municipality shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the municipal employees, and the
municipality shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property
by municipal employees and against liability claims and demands for personal
injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the
gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
53.058.
(Prior Code, § 3-250)
   (C)   Easements. The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of
the municipality bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the municipality holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-251)
§ 53.096 NOTICE AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§
53.006 shall be served by the municipality with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the municipality for any expense, loss or damage occasioned
the municipality by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-252) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.097 MUNICIPAL POWERS.
   The municipality has the legal authority to enforce its system of user
charges, industrial cost recovery charge and sewer use regulations on all
existing or future users of the system whether located inside or outside the
municipal limits.
(Prior Code, § 3-253)
RATES AND FEES
§ 53.110 CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, CONSUMER includes all users of the
municipal sanitary sewerage system of the city, including all persons, firms or
corporations whose premises are served thereby and all owners and tenants of
real estate and buildings connected with said sanitary sewerage system or
served thereby, and all users of said system who in any way use the same or
discharge sanitary sewage, industrial wastewater or other liquid, either
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of the city.
   (B)   Consumers shall be classified as single-family residential, multiple-
family residential, commercial and industrial.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL CONSUMERS. All business establishments whose primary purpose
is to provide a service to consumers. COMMERCIAL CONSUMERS does not include
industrial consumers as further defined in this section.
      INDUSTRIAL CONSUMERS. All business establishments whose primary purpose
is the manufacturing, processing, packaging or assembling of a product for
resale, distribution or custom ordering.
      MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONSUMERS. Multiple dwellings or apartment
buildings where the primary purpose of the facility is to provide residential
quarters for more than one family.
      SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONSUMERS. One-family dwellings, including
mobile and modular houses where the primary purpose of the facility is for
residential purposes. SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONSUMERS shall include funeral
homes and churches.
(Prior Code, § 3-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 53.111 SEWER FUNDS.
   The rates charged to sanitary sewerage system consumer shall be collected
and divided into three categories and maintained in three funds.
   (A)   Category “A” shall be funds collected and maintained for debt service,
administration and other miscellaneous overhead costs and shall be known as the
Sewer Administration Fund.
   (B)   (1)   Category “B” shall be funds collected and maintained for
operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment facilities and shall be
known as the Sewer Operation and Maintenance Fund.
      (2)   The Sewer Operation and Maintenance Fund fiscal year-end balance
shall be carried over to meet the overall operation and maintenance costs for
the subsequent year.
   (C)   (1)   Category “C” shall be funds collected and maintained for
replacement needs of the wastewater treatment facility and shall be known as
the Sewer Replacement Fund. Replacement includes all expenditures for obtaining
and installing equipment, accessories and appurtenances which are necessary
during the service life of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works are designed and constructed. The Replacement
Fund shall provide adequate revenues to meet the replacement needs of the
treatment works over its service life and shall be used for no other purpose.
      (2)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Replacement Fund shall be carried
over to the same Fund in the subsequent fiscal year.
   (D)   (1)   The sewer O&M portion and sewer replacement portion of the sewer
use fees shall be deposited in non-lapsing funds and the revenues, so deposited
will be used only for the purposes of defraying the OM&R costs of the treatment
works. Funds transferred from other revenue sources to meet temporary shortages
in the OM&R funds shall be refunded following an appropriate adjustment in the
user charge for OM&R.
      (2)   The rates and charges for the operation maintenance and replacement
shall be reviewed annually for adequacy and proportionality among users and
user classes and adjusted, if necessary.
      (3)   Excess revenues collected from a class of users will be applied in
adjusting the rates for that class for the next year.
(Prior Code, § 3-207)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.01
§ 53.112 SEWER RATES.
   The usage amount charged to consumers of the sewer system of the city shall
be determined by the monthly average amount of water usage for said consumer
based upon the months of January, February, and March of each year, as
determined by readings of the water service meters. Said average usage amount
shall be effective in the month of June of each year and shall remain in effect
for a period of 12 months.
   (A)   Rate charge. The rate charge is $20 per month, plus $4.33 for each
thousand gallons, or fraction thereof of water used; or plus $3.25 for each 100
cubic feet, or fraction thereof, of water used.
   (B)   Customer determination. Each dwelling unit of a multiple-family
residential consumer shall be considered a separate consumer and the rate for
sanitary sewer service shall be determined in the same manner as a single-
family residential consumer.
(Prior Code, § 3-208) (Ord. 618, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 681, passed 11-1-1994;
Ord. 684, passed 12-6-1994; Ord. 692, passed 7-11-1995; Ord. 788, passed 9-7-
1999; Ord. 831, passed 12-10-2003; Ord. 852, passed 3-14-2006; Ord. 901, passed
4-9-2013; Ord. 930, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 957, passed 10-12-2021; Ord. 974,
passed 10-10-2023; Ord. 981, passed 6-11-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-925.02
§ 53.113 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to increase the operation, maintenance
and replacement rate when it is determined that the strength of a consumer’s
wastewater is significantly greater than other consumer’s. The city may require
any consumer, at their expense, to provide flow measurement and sample analysis
of their wastewater.
   (B)   All such surcharges shall be arrived at by establishing a base rate
per pound for biochemical oxygen demand and suspended solids and comparing the
consumer’s wastewater strength and volume to the base rate.
(Prior Code, § 3-210)
§ 53.114 DETERMINATION OF PROPORTIONAL RATES.
   (A)   Where, in the judgment of the City Council, the application of the use
charges hereinbefore set forth would not be proportional when compared to all
other consumers, the city may adjust said consumer’s rate provided said
consumer provides information, satisfactory to the city, such that the
consumer’s proportional use of the sewerage system can be determined.
   (B)   It shall be the consumer’s responsibility to provide to the city a
satisfactory means of measuring wastewater flows and obtaining representative
samples of wastewater from the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 3-211)
§ 53.115 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY RATES.
   Consumers of the sanitary sewerage system having a private water supply
which is discharged into the sanitary sewerage system shall be charged at the
same rate as all other consumers. All such consumers shall provide the city
with a satisfactory means of measuring or estimating the amount of water usage
during the winter quarter.
(Prior Code, § 3-212)
§ 53.116 RATE SAVING CLAUSE.
   If, for any reason, any of the rates of any user hereinbefore set forth
shall be invalid or unenforceable, the city shall be entitled to receive and
collect from such user a reasonable rate or charge for the use of its sanitary
sewerage system, the same to be collected in an action at law.
(Prior Code, § 3-213)
§ 53.117 LIEN.
   All sewer use charges prescribed by this chapter shall be a lien upon the
premises and real estate for which the sewer service is supplied and used, and,
if not paid when due, such charge shall be certified to the City Treasurer and
may be recovered by the city in an action at law from the owner or the person,
firm or corporation requesting the service or it may be certified to the tax
assessor and assessed against the premises serviced and collected or returned
in the same manner as other municipal taxes are certified, assessed, collected
and returned.
(Prior Code, § 3-214)
§ 53.118 SEWER USE CHARGES; WHEN DUE.
   Bills for the sewer use charges made by this chapter shall be due on the
first day of each month and shall be delinquent if not paid by the tenth day
thereof. If said sewer bills are not paid by the twentieth day of each month,
the water service of the consumer shall be turned off and shall not be turned
on again until said bill and a late charge of $5 be paid.
(Prior Code, § 3-215) (Ord. 550, passed 12-6-1988)
§ 53.119 USER CHARGE REVIEW.
   The governing body shall review, at least annually, the user charge system
and revise the charges, if necessary, to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportional distribution of operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) costs among users and user classes;
   (B)   Generate adequate revenues to pay the costs of OM&R; and
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
OM&R attributable to that class for the next year and adjust the rates
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 3-216)
§ 53.120 USER NOTIFICATION.
   Each user will be notified, at least annually, with a regular bill, of the
rate currently being charged for sanitary sewer service.
(Prior Code, § 3-217)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in §
53.096, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each 24-hour period
in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-255)
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Ownership
   
54.02   Contracts and terms
   
54.03   Consumer’s application
   
54.04   Electrical service contracts
   
54.05   Licensed electrician
   
54.06   Installation expense
   
54.07   Meters
   
54.08   Rates
   
54.09   Restricted use
   
54.10   Building moving
   
54.11   Posting signs
   
54.12   Trimming trees
   
54.13   Inspections
   
54.14   Destruction of property
Cogeneration
   
54.25   Purpose
   
54.26   Definitions
   
54.27   Interconnections with qualifying facilities
   
54.28   Rates for sales of electric energy to qualifying facilities
   
54.29   Rates for purchases of electric energy from qualifying facilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 OWNERSHIP.
   The municipality owns and operates the municipal electrical system through
the Utilities Superintendent. The governing body, for the purpose of defraying
the cost of the care, management and maintenance of the municipal electrical
system, may each year levy a tax, not exceeding the maximum limit prescribed by
state law, on the actual valuation of all real estate and personal property
within the corporate limits that is subject to taxation. The revenue from said
tax shall be known as the Electrical Fund and shall remain in the custody of
the Municipal Treasurer. The Utilities Superintendent shall have the direct
management and control of the municipal electrical system and shall faithfully
carry out the duties of his or her office. He or she shall have the authority
to adopt rules and regulations for the safe and efficient management of the
electrical system subject to the supervision and review of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 3-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 through 17-904, 17-906 and 17-909
§ 54.02 CONTRACTS AND TERMS.
   The municipality, through its Electrical Department, shall furnish electric
current for light and power purposes to persons whose premises abut on any
supply wire of the distribution system and may furnish electric current to such
other persons within or without its corporate limits, as and when, according to
law, the governing body may see fit to do so. The rules, regulations and rates
for electric service, hereinafter named in this chapter, shall be considered a
part of every application hereafter made for electric service and shall be
considered a part of the contract between every consumer now served by the
Electrical Department. Without further formality, the making of application on
the part of any applicant or the use or consumption of electric energy by
present customers and the furnishing of electric service to said applicant or
customer shall constitute a contract between applicant or customer and the
municipality, to which both parties are bound. If the customer should violate
any of the provisions of said contract or any reasonable rules and regulations
that the governing body may hereafter adopt, the Utilities Superintendent, or
his or her agent, shall cut off or disconnect the electric service from the
building or place of such violation and no further connection of electric
service for such building or place shall again be made save or except by order
of the Superintendent or his or her agent. In the event a reconnection of
service is made after a disconnection, the customer shall be required to pay a
$50 reconnection fee.
(Prior Code, § 3-302) (Ord. 963, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 54.03 CONSUMER’S APPLICATION.
   Every person or persons desiring electrical service must make application
therefor to the Utilities Superintendent. Any applicant shall be required to
make a utilities service deposit in such amount as set forth in §
50.05. Electric service accounts shall be deemed to be delinquent if not paid
within ten days from the due dates thereof. Upon approval of any consumer’s
application, the consumer shall be required to pay to the municipality a $10
initial connection fee. The system shall not supply to any person outside the
corporate limits electrical service without special permission from the
governing body; provided, that the entire cost of wire, installation and other
expenses shall be paid by the consumer. Nothing herein shall be construed to
obligate the municipality to supply electrical service to nonresidents.
(Prior Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 904, passed 8-13-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-2701
§ 54.04 ELECTRICAL SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts for electrical service are not transferable. Any person wishing to
change from one location to another shall make a new application and sign a new
contract. If any consumer shall sell, dispose or remove from the premises where
service is furnished in his or her name, or if said premises is destroyed by
fire or other casualty, he or she shall at once inform the Utilities
Superintendent who shall cause the electrical service to be shut off from said
premises. If the consumer should fail to give such notice, he or she shall be
charged for all electricity used on said premises until the Utilities
Superintendent is otherwise advised of such circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 3-304)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.05 LICENSED ELECTRICIAN.
   (A)   Under no circumstances shall connections be made between the wires of
the electrical distribution system of this municipality and the meter of the
consumer, except by an employee of the municipality or a licensed electrician
authorized to do so by the Utilities Superintendent. The consumer may have
wiring done by any competent licensed electrician from the meter to the points
of distribution.
   (B)   All wiring, equipment and apparatus shall be installed according to
the electrical code duly adopted by the municipality. All installation shall be
done under the supervision and strictly in accordance with the rules,
regulations and specifications for such installation prescribed by the
Utilities Superintendent and Building Inspector; provided, that such rules,
regulations and specifications have been reviewed and approved by the governing
body.
(Prior Code, § 3-305)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.06 INSTALLATION EXPENSE.
   The expense of installation and equipment up to and including the electrical
meter shall be paid by the municipality. The expense of installation and wiring
from the meter to the points of distribution shall be the responsibility of the
consumer. Maintenance and replacement expense shall be apportioned in the same
manner.
(Prior Code, § 3-306)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.07 METERS.
   All electrical meters shall be read at least one time each month during
which electrical service is used between the nineteenth day and the first day
of the succeeding month. In the event a meter is broken or otherwise fails to
register accurately the use of electricity by any consumer, the six-month
average of the season one year previous to such breakage shall be used for
billing purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-307)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.08 RATES.
   As a tariff of rates based on monthly consumption by each consumer of
current from the electric light plant and distribution system of the city, the
following schedules are hereby established.
   (A)   Service within corporate limits. For all residential retail electric
customers located within the corporate limits of the city:
Commercial light and power service
Commercial light and power service
Applicability: For commercial businesses located within the corporate limits
of the city.
Demand charge (#37): For lights, single-phase and three-phase motors and
apparatus of five horsepower or less, no demand or horsepower charges will be
made. For motors or apparatus from five to ten horsepower, a charge of $2.42
per horsepower per month will be made. For motors and apparatus over ten
horsepower, a demand meter will be installed by the city, and a charge will be
made of $6.39 per K.W. for the highest K.W. demand placed on the city's
electric system for a 30-minute interval during a one month billing period.
                                        $17.18 on the first 50 K.W.H. used,
                                        minimum of $17.18 monthly
                                        $0.2284 per K.W.H. on the next 50
Energy charge (#36): In addition to the K.W.H. used
demand charge, if any, an energy charge $0.1632 per K.W.H. on the next 100
shall be imposed as follows.            K.W.H. used
                                        $0.1415 per K.W.H. on the next 300
                                        K.W.H. used
                                        $0.1118 per K.W.H. for all K.W.H. in
                                        excess of 500 K.W.H. used
 
 
Residential service
Applicability (#30): For single-family  $7.26 on the first 15 K.W.H. used,
residence and individually metered      minimum of $7.26 monthly
apartments for all domestic purposes    $0.1826 per K.W.H. on the next 85
where all service is supplied through a K.W.H. used
single meter. Rating of individual      $0.1206 per K.W.H. on the next 100
single-phase motor shall not exceed     K.W.H. used
five horsepower.                        $0.0797 per K.W.H. for all K.W.H. in
                                        excess of 200 K.W.H. used
 
   (B)   Service outside corporate limits. For all residential retail electric
customers located outside the corporate limits of the city:
 
Residential farm service
Applicability (#33): For single-phase   $19.29 on the first 50 K.W.H. used;
service (or three-phase service where   minimum of $19.29 monthly
such service can be extended) at        $0.2360 per K.W.H. on the next 50
approximately 120 to 240 volts to rural K.W.H. used
residential, rural commercial, and      $0.1565 per K.W.H. on the next 100
rural nonresidential establishments for K.W.H. used
lighting, heating, and power purposes
which may be served from existing lines $0.1060 per K.W.H. for all K.W.H. in
of 4,160 volts or less. Single- phase   excess of 200 K.W.H. used
motors shall not exceed ten horsepower
individual rating.
 
   (C)   Water heater and all electric rates. For all residential electric
customers located within and outside the corporate limits of the city:
All electric rate
All electric rate
Applicability (#31): For residential   $7.18 on the first 15 K.W.H. used,
customers located within the corporate minimum of $7.18 monthly
limits of the city where permanently   $0.1811 per K.W.H. on the next 85 K.W.H.
installed electric space heating       used
equipment is in regular use to supply  $0.1186 per K.W.H. on the next 100
the entire space heating requirements  K.W.H. used
of the home and water heaters and      $0.0594 per K.W.H. for all K.W.H. in
household appliances are all electric. excess of 200 K.W.H. used
Applicability (#34): For residential customers located outside the corporate
limits of the city where permanently installed electric space heating equipment
is in regular use to supply the entire space heating requirements of the home
and water heaters and household appliances are all electric.
                                       For the first 200 K.W.H. used, minimum
Applicable #33 rates                   of $19.29 monthly
                                       $0.0600 per K.W.H. for all K.W.H. used
                                       in excess of 200 K.W.H. used
Water heater rate
Applicability (#32): For residential customers located within the corporate
limits of the city who use an electric water heater for main source of supply
for hot water.
                                       For the first 200 K.W.H. used, minimum
                                       of $7.26 monthly
Applicable #30 rates                   $0.0600 per K.W.H. used in excess of 200
                                       K.W.H. used but less than 500 K.W.H.
                                       $0.0810 per K.W.H. used in excess of 500
                                       K.W.H. used
Applicability (#35): For residential customers located outside the corporate
limits of the city who use an electric water heater for main source of supply
for hot water.
                                       For the first 200 K.W.H. used, minimum
                                       of $19.29 monthly
Applicable #33 rates                   $0.0600 per K.W.H. used in excess of 200
                                       K.W.H. used but less than 500 K.W.H.
                                       $0.1060 per K.W.H. used in excess of 500
                                       K.W.H. used
 
   (D)   Large power users. For all electric customers located within and
outside the corporate limits of the city:
 
Applicability (#38): For all customers located within or outside the
corporate limits of the city using in excess of 7,000 K.W.H. per month, or
at the discretion of the City Council.
Demand charge:$8.42 per K.W. per month of maximum or billing demand, but not
less than $210.50 based on 25 K.W. minimum demand.
                                    $0.0712 per K.W.H. on the first 5,000
                                    K.W.H. used per month
                                    $0.0464 per K.W.H. on the next 10,000
Energy charge: In addition to the   K.W.H. used per month
demand charge, an energy charge of: $0.0409 per K.W.H. on the next 35,000
                                    K.W.H. used per month
                                    $0.0328 per K.W.H. on all additional use
                                    in excess of 50,000 K.W.H. used per
                                    month
Determination of maximum demand: The maximum demand for any billing period
shall be the highest integrated load during any 30-minute period occurring
in the billing period for which determination is made.
 
   (E)   Municipal uses. Service to the city shall be measured and bills shall
be rendered to the various departments of the city, and paid in accordance with
rates fixed and established as follows:
 
City street lighting     $0.0997 per K.W.H.
City water well purposes $0.0725 per K.W.H.
 
   (F)   Time bills payable. All bills for electric service furnished by the
city shall be due on the tenth day of each month, shall be delinquent if not
paid by the twentieth day thereof and shall be subject to a late charge of $10
if not paid by the twentieth day thereof.
   (G)   Temporary service.
      (1)   Temporary service shall be supplied in accordance with the
established rates except that the consumer shall pay in addition to the
established rates for service, the total cost of connecting and disconnecting
service less the value of materials returned to stock.
      (2)   A deposit in advance may be required for the full payment of the
estimated bill for service, including the cost of connection and disconnection.
   (H)   Restrictions on motor loads.
      (1)   All motors of more than five horsepower, manufacturer's rating,
shall be three-phase. Full voltage starting of three-phase motors larger than
seven and one-half horsepower, manufacturer's rating, will not be permitted
except by special permission of the city.
      (2)   Soft-starting or reduced voltage starting equipment must receive
the approval of the city before such installations are connected for service.
   (I)   Service deposits.
      (1)   Anything in this chapter notwithstanding, the applicant for
electric service shall be required to accompany his application with a service
deposit in such sum as may be established by the Mayor and City Council by
resolution.
      (2)   The Mayor and City Council are hereby authorized and empowered,
from time to time, to establish such service deposit rates for various types
and classes of users.
(Prior Code, § 3-308) (Ord. 469, passed 3-6-1984; Ord. 551, passed 12-6-1988;
Ord. 577, passed 1-8-1991; Ord. 596, passed 11-5-1991; Ord. 616, passed 3-2-
1993; Ord. 682, passed 11-1-1994; Ord. 715, passed 3-5-1996; Ord. 741, passed
5-6-1997; Ord. 786, passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 822, passed 4-8-2003; Ord. 837,
passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 859, passed 3-13-2007; Ord. 867, passed 6-10-2008; Ord.
872, passed 7-14-2009; Ord. 878, passed 1-12-2010; Ord. 888, passed 2-8-2011;
Ord. 893, passed 2-14-2012; Ord. 909, passed 2-11-2014; Ord. 912, passed 3-10-
2015; Ord. 918, passed 2-9-2016; Ord. 928, passed 6-13-2017; Ord. 943, passed
3-12-2019; Ord. 947, passed 3-10-2020; Ord. 960, passed 2-8-2022; Ord. 979,
passed 5- 14-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.09 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   The municipal electrical system does not guarantee the delivery of
electric current over the lines of the distribution system except when it has
sufficient power, current, equipment and machinery to do so. The Utilities
Superintendent has the power and authority to disconnect or discontinue such
service for any good and sufficient reason without liability.
   (B)   The municipality shall use due care and reasonable diligence to
provide and supply uninterrupted service to consumers but shall not be liable
for damages resulting from interruption of service due to causes over which the
municipality has no control and the municipality expressly reserves the right
to discontinue or disconnect any consumer’s service without preliminary notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-309)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902 and 19-1404
§ 54.10 BUILDING MOVING.
   (A)   Should any house or building moving occur or be necessary and it
becomes necessary in said work to remove or disturb any of the property or
wires of the municipal electrical system, the same should not be done except
upon written permission received from the Utilities Superintendent, who shall
then order paid in advance the actual cost of moving said wires and such cost
shall be paid by the applicant prior to the moving of the building or house.
   (B)   All expense of removing, changing and replacing said wires or
apparatus of the electrical system shall be paid out of the deposit made prior
to moving and any surplus remaining after all expenses are paid shall be
returned to the applicant; provided, that if in the course of moving said
building or house it becomes apparent that additional expense will be incurred,
such additional deposit as deemed necessary may be demanded.
(Prior Code, § 3-310)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.11 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, tack or fasten to the poles,
structures, fixtures or equipment of the municipal electrical system any sign,
poster, advertisement or banner without written permission from the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-1404
§ 54.12 TRIMMING TREES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to cut or remove trees or branches thereof in
close proximity to the lines of the municipal electrical system shall, before
doing said work, give reasonable written notice to the Utilities Superintendent
and shall follow any and all rules and regulations which he or she may
prescribe for doing such work.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person felling or removing such trees or
branches to disrupt or damage the lines without first giving proper notice and
receiving permission in writing to do so. Whenever it becomes necessary to
protect the lines or property of the electrical system, the governing body
shall have the power to order cut and remove any overhanging branches or limbs
of trees so that the lines will be free and safe.
(Prior Code, § 3-312) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.13 INSPECTIONS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or his or her duly authorized agents shall have
free access at any reasonable time to each premises and building to or in which
electricity is supplied; provided, that in the event of an emergency, such
inspections may take place at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-313)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-902
§ 54.14 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure
or deface any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachment or
appurtenance of the municipal electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 3-314) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512
COGENERATION
§ 54.25 PURPOSE.
   In order to comply with §§ 201 and 210 of the Public Utility Regulatory
Policies Act of 1978, being 18 C.F.R. part 292, and with the rules and
regulations of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission pertaining thereto, the
following policies relating to interconnections of the electric system of the
municipality with cogeneration and small power production facilities, rates for
sales of electric energy to such facilities and rates for purchases of electric
energy from such facilities are hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 3-315)
§ 54.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVOIDED COSTS. Incremental costs to an electric utility of electric energy
or capacity or both which, but for the purchase from qualifying facilities,
such utility would generate itself or purchase from another source.
   COGENERATION FACILITY. A facility which produces electric energy and steam
or other forms of useful energy (such as heat) which are used for industrial,
commercial, heating or cooling purposes.
   INTERCONNECTION COSTS. The reasonable costs of connection, switching,
metering, transmission, distribution, safety provisions and administrative
costs incurred by the electric utility directly related to the installation and
maintenance of the physical facilities necessary to permit interconnected
operations with a qualifying facility, to the extent such costs are in excess
of the corresponding costs which the electric utility would have incurred if it
had not engaged in interconnected operations, but instead generated an
equivalent amount of electric energy itself or purchased an equivalent amount
of electric energy or capacity from other sources. INTERCONNECTION COSTS do not
include any costs involved in the calculation of avoided costs.
   QUALIFYING COGENERATION FACILITY. A cogeneration facility that meets the
requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regarding ownership,
fuel use and operating and efficiency standards.
   QUALIFYING SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY. A small power production
facility that meets the requirements of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission regarding ownership, fuel use, fuel efficiency and reliability.
   SMALL POWER PRODUCTION FACILITY. A facility which produces electric energy
solely by the use, as a primary energy source, of biomass, waste, renewable
resources or any combination thereof totaling not greater than 80 megawatts at
one site.
(Prior Code, § 3-316)
§ 54.27 INTERCONNECTIONS WITH QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Qualifying facilities desiring to interconnect with the electric
system of the municipality shall make application to the Department of
Utilities for such interconnection. Applicants shall use such forms as are
prescribed by the municipality and shall furnish all information requested.
   (B)   (1)   The municipality shall establish reasonable standards to be met
by qualifying facilities to ensure system safety and reliability of
interconnected operations.
      (2)   Such standards may include, but shall not be limited to, the
following areas:
         (a)   Power factor;
         (b)   Voltage regulations;
         (c)   Fault, over-current and over-under voltage protection;
         (d)   Harmonics;
         (e)   Synchronization; and
         (f)   Isolation.
   (C)   Interconnection costs associated with the interconnection with a
qualifying facility shall be paid for by such qualifying facility. Qualifying
facilities shall be required to execute contractual agreements with the
municipality before any interconnection is established.
(Prior Code, § 3-317)
§ 54.28 RATES FOR SALES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY TO QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   Rates for sales of electric energy to qualifying facilities shall be those
current standard rates adopted from time to time by resolution of the Mayor and
City Council which apply to other customers of the utility in the same
classification(s) of electric service.
(Prior Code, § 3-318)
§ 54.29 RATES FOR PURCHASES OF ELECTRIC ENERGY FROM QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Rates for purchases of electric energy from qualifying facilities
shall be established by resolution of the Mayor and City Council. Such rates
shall be just and reasonable to the electric consumer of the utility and in the
public interest, shall not discriminate against qualifying cogeneration and
small power production facilities and shall be related to avoided costs;
however, in no case is the utility required to pay more than the avoided costs.
   (B)   Standard rates shall be established for purchases from qualifying
facilities with a design capacity of 100 kilowatts or less. Rates for purchases
from qualifying facilities with a design capacity over 100 kilowatts may be
standard rates or may be by individual contracts, the terms of which are fair
and reasonable.
(Prior Code, § 3-319)
CHAPTER 55: NATURAL GAS SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Applicability and classification
   
55.02   Rates
   
55.03   Other contracts
   
55.04   Rate filing
Natural Gas Rate Increase Procedure
   
55.15   Regulatory authority
   
55.16   Rate schedules
   
55.17   Refund
   
55.18   Other rate changes
   
55.19   Information to be provided
   
55.20   Notice of application
   
55.21   Providing general information
   
55.22   Validity of franchise
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 APPLICABILITY AND CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to any person, firm or corporation supplying
natural gas service to the city and the inhabitants thereof. Any such person,
firm or corporation shall be hereinafter referred to as the gas distribution
company, or company, or franchisee.
   (B)   The gas distribution company shall provide two classes of service to
its customers. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FIRM GAS SERVICE. Gas service that is supplied on a non-interruptible
basis. FIRM GAS SERVICE shall be made available to all customers whose maximum
space heating requirements are less than 1,000 cubic feet per hour.
      INTERRUPTIBLE GAS SERVICE. Gas service that is supplied on in
interruptible basis. It shall be subject to curtailment or interruption on
demand of the Gas Service Company whenever necessary to protect the service of
its firm gas customers.
(Prior Code, § 10-801)
§ 55.02 RATES.
   The gas distribution company shall not, after the effective date of this
chapter, charge more for such natural gas service than hereinafter set forth.
   (A)   Firm gas service rate.
      (1)   Availability. This rate is available only to customers whose
maximum space heating requirements for natural gas are less than 1,000 cubic
feet per hour. The gas distribution company shall not be required to serve any
customer at the following rate whose space heating requirements amount to 1,000
cubic feet or more per hour.
      (2)   Rate.
First 500 cubic feet or less $2 per month
Next 1,500 cubic feet        $1.628 per MCF per month
Next 3,000 cubic feet        $1.398 per MCF per month
Next 5,000 cubic feet        $1.218 per MCF per month
Next 40,000 cubic feet       $1.103 per MCF per month
Next 50,000 cubic feet       $1.043 per MCF per month
Excess cubic feet            $0.983 per MCF per month
Minimum monthly bill         $2
 
      (3)   Adjustment for cost of purchased gas. In the event the rates
authorized to be charged the gas distribution company for any natural gas
purchased by it on a firm supply basis for resale in the city are increased or
decreased, either temporarily or permanently, the rates prescribed in the
foregoing schedule may be increased or shall be decreased correspondingly to
reflect the change in the cost of firm gas for the city, such increase or
decrease by the company to be effective not earlier than the next billing
period following the effective date of the increase or decrease in rates
charged the company.
      (4)   Adjustment for taxes. In the event that, after the effective date
of this chapter, the business of the gas distribution company in the city shall
be subjected to any additional taxes measured by its gross revenues from the
operation of such business on the volume of such business or constituting a fee
for carrying on such business, or, in the event that the rate of any such tax
and the amount of any such fee shall be increased after the effective date of
this chapter, the gas distribution company shall be entitled to increase its
charges under the aforesaid rates so as to offset such additional imposition or
impositions or such increase.
   (B)   Interruptible gas service rate availability. This rate is available
only on a contract basis to customers whose requirements for natural gas amount
to 1,000 cubic feet or more per hour, and who install and maintain sufficient
standby fuel to take care of customer’s entire requirements during periods of
curtailment of the use of natural gas by the gas distribution company, but
shall not be higher than the firm gas service rate that may be in effect from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 10-802)
§ 55.03 OTHER CONTRACTS.
   The gas distribution company may enter into written contracts for a term not
less than one year with any customers or class of customers making application
therefor without discrimination for special gas services for commercial and
industrial uses at such rates and on such conditions as the contracting parties
may agree.
(Prior Code, § 10-803)
§ 55.04 RATE FILING.
   The municipality shall charge and collect a filing fee from natural gas
companies for rate filings. The filing fee shall be $300 for each rate filing.
(Prior Code, § 10-804) (Ord. 527, passed 11-3-1987)
NATURAL GAS RATE INCREASE PROCEDURE
§ 55.15 REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   The franchisee shall at all times be subject to all rights, power and
authority now or hereafter possessed by the city to regulate and control and
direct the rates and tariffs charged for natural gas service in the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-901)
§ 55.16 RATE SCHEDULES.
   The franchisee shall provide to the city for informational purposes, copies
of all rate schedules and contracts for all rates charged and the requirements
for service under such schedule within the city. They should also show
separately the base rate and the purchased gas adjustment (PGA) rate. The base
rate shall exclude all gas supply costs and gas supply cost adjustments. Gas
supply costs and gas supply cost adjustments shall be collected solely through
the PGA rate.
(Prior Code, § 10-902)
§ 55.17 REFUND.
   Any refund including interest thereon, if any, received by the franchisee
from its supplier related to increased rates paid by the franchisee subject to
refund and applicable to natural gas purchased for resale within the city shall
be passed on to presently served customers by an appropriate adjustment shown
as a credit on subsequent bills during a period selected by the franchisee, not
to exceed 12 months, or by a cash refund at the franchisee’s option or by such
other method as may be established by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-903)
§ 55.18 OTHER RATE CHANGES.
   (A)   In the event the franchisee desires to change its rates for natural
gas service within the city other then to reflect an adjustment for the cost of
purchased gas, the franchisee will present to the city copies of present and
proposed rate schedules and information supporting the proposed rates to be
charged for natural gas service within the city. The rate schedule and
information submitted with the rate schedules shall be referred to as the rate
filing. A filing fee in the amount of 6% of the total of the four quarterly
franchise payments made by the franchisee to the city shall be paid to the city
with the rate filing. Any such rate filing shall be deemed filed upon receipt
of the same and the filing fee by the City Clerk. The fee shall be considered
as an operating cost of the franchisee and shall not be separately itemized on
any customer billings.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the right to select and engage rate
consultants, accountants, auditors, attorneys, engineers and other experts as
deemed necessary or desirable by the City Council to advise and represent the
City Council in evaluating any proposed rate change. The franchisee shall
reimburse the city within 90 days of the presentation of a bill by the city for
the reasonable costs of those services only to the extent that said costs
exceed the filing fee for the rate filing.
   (C)   If the proposed rates sought by the franchisee in its rate filing have
not been passed on final reading by the City Council within 90 days after it
was filed, or, as such time may be extended by agreement between the franchisee
and city in order to supply additional information if requested by the city,
the proposed rates shall be put into effect as interim rates and shall be
collected subject to refund pursuant to Neb. RS 18-415. Such interim rates
shall remain in effect pending final determination by the city, which
determination shall be made within one year or, in the event of litigation,
final rate determination by the courts.
   (D)   The rates proposed to be charged for non-contract firm natural gas
service within the city shall be based upon the utility’s cost of providing
service to the city or the representative costs in that part of utility’s
service area which includes the city. The period for which the cost of service
is to be recognized is to be a projected 12-month period commencing not later
than the proposed effective date of the increase. The cost of service shall be
determined in a manner consistent with regulated public utility practices and
shall include appropriate costs as defined and set forth in the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission Uniform System of Accounts Prescribed for Natural Gas
Companies FERC Accounts, and a reasonable return on the utility’s rate base.
   (E)   In determining a reasonable return, a rate (percentage) shall be
employed that is representative of the cost of debt, preferred stock and common
equity capital. The rate base shall consist of the applicable net investment in
utility plant (as defined in the FERC accounts), allowance for working capital
and such other items as may reasonably be included, less such investment as
may, unless otherwise prevented by law, be attributed to other than investor
capital.
   (F)   The franchisee’s appropriate costs and items of rate base shall
include allocated or apportioned expenses and rate base items, when such
allocations or apportionments are reasonably representative of assigned common
costs and arise from the manner is which the franchisee’s operations are
conducted, or from an avoidance of excessive and costly financial
recordkeeping.
   (G)   Rate filings, not including changes reflecting the cost of gas, shall
be limited to a maximum of one in any 12 calendar month period.
(Prior Code, § 10-904) (Ord. 509, passed 12-2-1986)
§ 55.19 INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   The franchisee shall provide, in its rate filing, three copies of its
most recent annual report to the stockholders and the completed and signed
copies of the “summary of proposed rate change” sheets, seven copies of which
shall be on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk.
   (B)   In addition, three copies of the following information shall, on
request by city, be provided by the franchisee:
      (1)   A financial summary showing aggregate rate base, operating
revenues, operating expenses, return on rate base and rate of return:
         (a)   Actual for the most recent calendar year preceding the date of
submission;
         (b)   For the projected 12-month period using natural gas rates
currently in effect; and
         (c)   For the projected 12-month period using the proposed natural gas
rates.
      (2)   Rate base schedules, on an original cost basis, showing for the
most recent 12-month period available and for the projected 12-month period:
         (a)   For utility plant and accumulated depreciation and amortization
components: the beginning and end of period balances by account, explanations
of changes in balances during the period, and the calculated rate base amounts;
         (b)   For cash working capital: in manner in which rate base amounts
are calculated;
         (c)   For other rate base components: beginning and end of period
amounts, explanations of changes in balances during the period and calculated
rate base amounts; and
         (d)   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in
this division (B)(2).
      (3)   Operating expense schedules, showing:
         (a)   Expenses by FERC accounts for the most recent calendar year
including filing fees and occupation taxes paid to the city;
         (b)   Explanation and calculations of allocated amounts included in
division (B)(3)(a) above;
         (c)   Expenses by FERC accounts or their equivalent for the projected
12-month period;
         (d)   Explanation of methods employed to develop projected expenses;
and
         (e)   Explanations and calculations of allocated amounts included in
division (B)(3)(c) above.
      (4)   Rate of return/cost of capital schedules showing debt, preferred
stock and common equity amounts at the beginning and end of the projected 12-
month period, explanations of changes during the period and methods used to
calculate or otherwise determine cost of capital.
      (5)   Operating revenue schedules, showing:
         (a)   Number of customers, volume of sales and operating revenue by
customer classes for the most recent calendar year;
         (b)   Number of customers and volume of sales by customer classes for
the projected 12-month period;
         (c)   Explanation of methods employed to determine data in division
(B)(5)(b) above;
         (d)   Operating revenues by rate schedules for the projected 12-month
period using current rates;
         (e)   Operating revenue by customer classes for the projected 12-month
period using proposed rates; and
         (f)   Detailed rates and calculations for divisions (B)(5)(d) and (B)
(5)(e) above, including customer usages (consumption analysis) data, peak
demand and load factor data by customer class, allocation methods and
justifications and the like.
      (6)   Informational schedules showing for the city as a whole:
         (a)   Cost of utility plant; and
         (b)   Number of customers, volume of sales and operating revenue by
customer classes.
      (7)   The franchisee shall clearly designate as part of its expenses, all
expenditures for business gifts and entertainment, institutional, consumption
inducing and other advertising or public relations expenses and legislative-
advocacy expenses. The city may not allow its cost of expenses for rate making
purposes any of these expenditures which the city determines not to be in the
public interest. The franchisee has the burden of showing these expenses are in
the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 10-905) (Ord. 491, passed 9-3-1985)
§ 55.20 NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   The franchisee shall not make changes in its rates except by
filing a rate filing prescribed with the City Clerk at least 90 days prior to
the proposed effective date of the requested change. Notice of the filing shall
be given by publication by placing a notice to the public of the proposed
change in a newspaper having general circulation in the city. However,
notwithstanding the above, instead of the publication of newspaper notice
contemplated above, the franchisee may provide notice to the public by mailing
such notice by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the billing address of
each directly affected customer, or by including the notice in such customer’s
bill in a conspicuous form.
      (2)   The notice must be in the following form:
 
   NOTICE OF RATE INCREASE
 
The (name of the utility) proposes to increase your rates by (amount of total
annual increase requested) dollars per year, which is an overall increase of
(percentage of increase over all revenues during the applicable test year)
percent and is an increase in base rates of (percentage of increase over all
revenues during the applicable test year which are not subject to escalation
through some form of automatic adjustment clause) percent. Further information
may be obtained from (name and address of utility official) or the application
on file with the Wilber City Clerk.
 
   (B)   An affidavit signed by an official of the franchisee and describing
the method of publication of the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 10-906)
§ 55.21 PROVIDING GENERAL INFORMATION.
   The franchisee shall provide the city, at the request of city, on a regular
continuing basis, within 30 days of publication, copies of documents,
information and data listed below for the franchisee or its parent company as
applicable:
   (A)   Annual report to stockholders;
   (B)   Quarterly report to stockholders;
   (C)   Securities and exchange commission form 10-k, as the same may be
changed from time to time;
   (D)   Securities and exchange commission form 10-q, as the same may be
changed from time to time;
   (E)   Prospectus for debt securities to be issued;
   (F)   Prospectus for equity securities to be issued; and
   (G)   Distribution system map of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-907)
§ 55.22 VALIDITY OF FRANCHISE.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
franchise shall for any reason be held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct
and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 10-908)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Placement and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.03   Crosswalks
   
70.04   Enforcement of rules and laws
   
70.05   Failure or refusal to obey order
   
70.06   Obedience to traffic control devices; exceptions
   
70.07   Traffic officers
   
70.08   Traffic citations
   
70.09   Child passenger restraint system
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter, pertaining to motor vehicles and
traffic regulations, shall be construed as defined in Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 6, as now existing or hereafter amended. If not defined in the
designated statutes, the word or phrase shall have its common meaning.
(Prior Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 648, passed 8-2-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-606 through 60-676
§ 70.02 PLACEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Council shall place and maintain such traffic control devices upon
highways under its jurisdiction as it deems necessary to indicate and to carry
out the provisions of this title or to regulate, warn or guide traffic. All
such traffic control devices erected pursuant to this title shall conform with
the Manual.
(Neb. RS 60-6,121)
§ 70.03 CROSSWALKS.
   The governing body may by resolution establish and maintain, by appropriate
devices, markers or lines upon the street, crosswalks, at intersections where
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the street and at such other
places as they may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 5-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.04 ENFORCEMENT OF RULES AND LAWS.
   (A)   All peace officers are hereby specifically directed and authorized,
and it shall be deemed and considered a part of the official duties of each of
such officers, to enforce the provisions of State Rules of the Road and this
title, including the specific enforcement of maximum speed limits, and any
other state or city law regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the
highways.
   (B)   To perform the official duties imposed by this section, peace officers
shall have the power:
      (1)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle
Operator’s License Act, or this title, or of any other law regulating the
operation of vehicles or the use of the highways, if and when designated or
called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (2)   To make arrests upon view and without warrant for any violation
committed in their presence of any provision of the laws of this state relating
to misdemeanors or felonies or of similar city ordinances if and when
designated or called upon to do so as provided by law;
      (3)   At all times to direct all traffic in conformity with law or, in
the event of a fire or other emergency, or in order to expedite traffic or
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require;
      (4)   When in uniform, to require the driver of a vehicle to stop and
exhibit his or her operator’s license and registration certificate issued for
the vehicle and submit to an inspection of such vehicle and the license plates
and registration certificate for the vehicle and to require the driver of a
motor vehicle to present the vehicle within five days for correction of any
defects revealed by such motor vehicle inspection as may lead the inspecting
officer to reasonably believe that such motor vehicle is being operated in
violation of the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations of the
Director of Motor Vehicles or any city ordinance or regulation;
      (5)   To inspect any vehicle of a type required to be registered
according to law in any public garage or repair shop or in any place where such
a vehicle is held for sale or wrecking;
      (6)   To serve warrants relating to the enforcement of the laws
regulating the operation of vehicles or the use of the highways; and
      (7)   To investigate traffic accidents for the purpose of carrying on a
study of traffic accidents and enforcing motor vehicle and highway safety laws.
(Neb. RS 60-683)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
§ 70.05 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO OBEY ORDER.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly fails or refuses to obey any lawful order of
any peace officer who is controlling or directing traffic shall be guilty of a
traffic infraction.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly fails to obey any lawful order of a peace
officer shall be guilty of an offense whenever such order is given in
furtherance of the apprehension of a person who has violated the State Rules of
the Road or this title or of a person whom such officer reasonably believes has
violated the Rules or this title.
(Neb. RS 60-6,110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the State Rules of
the Road or this title, unless otherwise directed by a peace officer, subject
to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in the
Rules and this title.
   (B)   No provision of the Rules or this title for which traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by a reasonably observant person.
Whenever any provision of the Rules or this title does not state that traffic
control devices are required, such provision shall be effective even though no
devices are erected or in place.
   (C)   Whenever traffic control devices are placed in position approximately
conforming to the requirements of the Rules or this title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
   (D)   Any traffic control device placed pursuant to the Rules or this title
and purporting to conform with the lawful requirements pertaining to such
devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of the Rules or this
title unless the contrary is established by competent evidence.
(Neb. RS 60-6,119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   The City Council may at any time detail officers, to be known as “traffic
officers,” at street intersections. All traffic officers shall be vested with
the authority to regulate and control traffic at the intersections to which
they are assigned. It shall be their duty to direct the movement of traffic and
prevent congestion and accidents. It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate any order or signal of any such traffic officer notwithstanding the
directive of a stop sign or signal device that may have been placed at any such
intersection.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 TRAFFIC CITATIONS.
   (A)   Form and records.
      (1)   The Municipal Clerk shall provide, in appropriate form, traffic
citations containing notices to appear. The Municipal Clerk shall be
responsible for the issuance of such books and shall maintain a record of every
such book, and each citation number therein, issued to the municipality. The
Clerk shall require and retain a receipt for every book so issued. The
Municipal Clerk shall require the return of all copies of every traffic
citation which has been spoiled, or upon which any entry has been made, and not
issued to an alleged violator.
      (2)   All records of traffic citations required herein shall be audited
at the discretion of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-304)
   (B)   Illegal cancellation. Any person who cancels or solicits the
cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner, other than as provided
herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 5-305)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 70.09 CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person in the state who drives any motor vehicle which has or is
required to have an occupant protection system shall ensure that:
      (1)   All children up to six years of age being transported by such
vehicle use a child passenger restraint system of a type which meets Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 213 as developed by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, as such standard existed on January 1, 2006, and which
is correctly installed in such vehicle; and
      (2)   All children six years of age and less than 18 years of age being
transported in such vehicle use an occupant protection system.
   (B)   This section shall apply to every motor vehicle which is equipped with
an occupant protection system or is required to be equipped with restraint
systems pursuant to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 203, as such standard
existed on January 1, 2006, except taxicabs, mopeds, motorcycles and any motor
vehicle designated by the manufacturer as a 1963 year model or earlier which is
not equipped with an occupant protection system.
   (C)   Whenever any licensed physician determines, through accepted medical
procedures, that use of a child passenger restraint system by a particular
child would be harmful by reason of the child’s weight, physical condition or
other medical reason, the provisions of division (A) above shall be waived. The
driver of any vehicle transporting such a child shall carry on his or her
person or in the vehicle a signed written statement of the physician
identifying the child and stating the grounds for such waiver.
   (D)   The drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall not be subject to
the requirements of division (A) above when operating such authorized emergency
vehicles pursuant to their employment.
   (E)   A driver of a motor vehicle shall not be subject to the requirements
of division (A) above if the motor vehicle is being operated in a parade or
exhibition and the parade or exhibition is being conducted in accordance with
applicable state law or local ordinances and resolutions.
   (F)   All persons being transported in a motor vehicle operated by a holder
of a provisional operator’s permit or a school permit shall use such motor
vehicle’s occupant protection system.
(Prior Code, § 5-243) (Ord. 585, passed 6-4-1991; Ord. 834, passed 9-14-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,267
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this traffic code, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 5-801) (Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Truck routes
   
71.002   Restrictions on direction of travel
   
71.003   Engine compression brakes
   
71.004   Turning generally; U-turns; hand signals
   
71.005   Right-of-way; stop and yield signs
   
71.006   Interference with traffic-control devices or railroad signs or signals
   
71.007   Signs, markers, devices, or notices; prohibited acts
   
71.008   Tire requirements and prohibitions; permissive uses
   
71.009   Accident; driver’s duties
   
71.010   School crossing zones
Speed Limits
   
71.025   Basic rule
   
71.026   Maximum limits
   
71.027   Bridges and other elevated structures
   
71.028   Alternative maximum limits
   
71.029   Near schools
Prohibitions and Enforcement
   
71.040   Reckless driving
   
71.041   Careless driving
   
71.042   Negligent driving
   
71.043   Backing
   
71.044   Unnecessary stopping
   
71.045   Passing
   
71.046   Driving abreast
   
71.047   Following
   
71.048   Funeral processions
   
71.049   Littering
   
71.050   Glass; pointed objects
   
71.051   Crowding; front seat
   
71.052   Dragging articles
   
71.053   Riding outside vehicle
   
71.054   Clinging to motor vehicles
   
71.055   Driving in sidewalk space
   
71.056   Driving on shoulders of highway
   
71.057   Wrongful taking of motor vehicle
   
71.058   Emergency regulations
Operator and Vehicle Requirements
   
71.070   Vehicle equipment
   
71.071   Loads
   
71.072   Registration
 
   
71.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The governing body may by resolution designate certain streets in the
municipality that trucks shall travel upon, and it shall be unlawful for
persons operating such trucks to travel on other streets than those designated
for trucks unless to pick up or deliver goods, wares or merchandise, and, in
that event, the operator of such truck shall return to such truck routes as
soon as possible in traveling through or about the municipality.
   (B)   The governing body shall cause notices to be posted or shall erect
signs indicating the streets so designated as truck routes.
(Prior Code, § 5-201) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-681
§ 71.002 RESTRICTIONS ON DIRECTION OF TRAVEL.
   (A)   The City Council, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction, may
designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway, or specific lanes upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction at all times or at such times
as shall be indicated by traffic-control devices.
   (B)   Except for emergency vehicles, no vehicle shall be operated, backed,
pushed, or otherwise caused to move in a direction which is opposite to the
direction designated by competent authority on any deceleration lane,
acceleration lane, access ramp, shoulder, or roadway.
   (C)   A vehicle which passes around a roundabout shall be driven only to the
right of the central island while on the circulatory roadway in such
roundabout.
(Neb. RS 60-6,138) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to use engine compression brakes within the
city limits. Signs shall be posted on each of the highways entering the city
limits giving notice that engine braking is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-247) (Ord. 753, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 809, passed 1-8-2002)
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 TURNING GENERALLY; U-TURNS; HAND SIGNALS.
   (A)   U-turns; turning across traffic lane to park. No vehicle being
operated upon any street or highway of the municipality shall be turned so as
to proceed in the opposite direction, except at a street intersection. No
vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction at any
intersection where an automatic signal is in operation, or where a sign is
posted indicating that U-turns are prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the
operator of any motor vehicle to turn such vehicle so as to proceed into and/or
across the oncoming lane of traffic on any two-way, two or more lane street, so
as to turn into a parking stall on the opposite side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-205)
   (B)   Hand signals.
      (1)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given
continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle
before turning. The signals herein required shall be given either by means of
the hand and arm, or by a signal device of a type approved by the Department of
Roads.
      (2)   The hand and arm signals herein required shall be given from the
left side of the vehicle in the following manner:
         (a)   Stop or decreased speed, hand and arm extended downward;
         (b)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally; and
         (c)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward.
(Prior Code, § 5-206)
   (C)   Turning generally. Vehicles turning to the right into an intersecting
street shall approach such intersection in the lane of traffic nearest to the
right-hand side of the highway and must turn the corner as near the right-hand
curb as possible to keep between the curb to the right and the center of the
intersection of the two streets. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to
the left shall approach such centerline of the highway and, in turning, shall
pass as near as possible to the center of the intersection, passing as closely
as practicable to the right thereof before turning such vehicle to the left.
For the purpose of this division (C), the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall mean
the meeting point of the medial lines of the highways intersecting one another.
(Prior Code, § 5-207)
   (D)   Cautious. The operator of a vehicle shall, before stopping, turning or
changing the course of such vehicle, see that there is sufficient space to make
such movement in safety. If any pedestrian might be affected by such movement,
the operator shall give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and
whenever the operation of any other vehicle may be affected by such movement,
he or she shall give some unmistakable signal to the driver of all other
vehicles of his or her intention to make such movement.
(Prior Code, § 5-208)
(Ord. 962, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,109, 60-6,159 and 60-6,161
through 60-6,163
§ 71.005 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide for preferential right-of-way at an
intersection and indicate such by stop signs or yield signs erected by such
authorities.
   (B)   (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a traffic officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection where a
stop is indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or
shall stop, if there is no such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection, or if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest
the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on
the intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
      (2)   After having stopped, such driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on such highway as to constitute an immediate hazard if
such driver moved across or into such intersection.
   (C)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow to a
speed reasonable under the existing conditions and, if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or shall stop, if there is no
such line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection,
or if no crosswalk is indicated, at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
      (2)   After slowing or stopping, such driver shall yield the right-of-way
to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely
as to constitute an immediate hazard if such driver moved across or into such
intersection.
(Neb. RS 60-6,148) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any traffic-control device, any railroad
sign or signal, or any part of such a device, sign, or signal.
(Neb. RS 60-6,129) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 SIGNS, MARKERS, DEVICES, OR NOTICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Any person who willfully or maliciously shoots upon the public highway
and injures, defaces, damages, or destroys any signs, monuments, road markers,
traffic-control devices, traffic-surveillance devices, or other public notices
lawfully placed upon such highways shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously injure, deface, alter, or
knock down any sign, traffic-control device, or traffic-surveillance device.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a duly authorized
representative of the Department of Transportation, the county, or the city, to
remove any sign, traffic-control device, or traffic-surveillance device placed
along a highway for traffic-control, warning, or informational purposes by
official action of the department, county, or city. It shall be unlawful for
any person to possess a sign or device which has been removed in violation of
this division (C).
   (D)   Any person violating division (B) or (C) above shall be guilty of an
offense and shall be assessed liquidated damages in the amount of the value of
the sign, traffic-control device, or traffic-surveillance device and the cost
of replacing it.
(Neb. RS 60-6,130) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.008 TIRE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS; PERMISSIVE USES.
   (A)   Every solid rubber tire on a vehicle moved on any highway shall have
rubber on its entire traction surface at least one inch thick above the edge of
the flange of the entire periphery.
   (B)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any clock, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberance of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire, except that:
      (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to pneumatic tires with metal or
metal-type studs not exceeding 5/16 of an inch in diameter inclusive of the
stud-casing with an average protrusion beyond the tread surface of not more
than 7/64 of an inch between November 1 and April 1, except that school buses,
mail carrier vehicles and emergency vehicles shall be permitted to use metal or
metal-type studs at any time during the year;
      (2)   It shall be permissible to use farm machinery with tires having
protuberances which will not injure the highway; and
      (3)   It shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other condition tending to cause a vehicle to slide or skid.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate or move on any highway any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer:
         (a)   Having any metal tire in contact with the roadway; or
         (b)   Equipped with solid rubber tires.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) above shall not apply to farm vehicles having a
gross weight of 10,000 pounds or less or to implements of husbandry.
   (D)   The city may, in its discretion, issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon a highway of traction engines or tractors having movable tracks
with transverse corrugations upon the periphery of such movable tracks or farm
tractors or other farm machinery.
(Neb. RS 60-6,250) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Rubber tired cranes, see Neb. RS 60-6,288
§ 71.009 ACCIDENT; DRIVER’S DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, the driver of any
vehicle involved in an accident either upon a public highway, private road or
private drive, resulting in damage to property, shall:
         (a)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident; and
         (b)   Give his or her name, address, telephone number and operator’s
license number to the owner of the property struck or the driver or occupants
of any other vehicle involved in the collision.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident either upon a
public highway, private road or private drive, resulting in damage to an
unattended vehicle or property, shall immediately stop such vehicle and leave
in a conspicuous place in or on the unattended vehicle or property a written
notice containing the information required by division (A)(1) above. In
addition, such driver shall, without unnecessary delay, report the collision,
by telephone or otherwise, to an appropriate peace officer.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident upon either a public
highway, private road or private drive, resulting in injury or death to any
person, shall:
      (1)   Immediately stop such vehicle at the scene of such accident and
ascertain the identity of all persons involved;
      (2)   Give his or her name and address and the license number of the
vehicle and exhibit his or her operator’s license to the person struck or the
occupants of any vehicle collided with; and
      (3)   Render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying of such person to a physician or surgeon for
medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that such treatment is
necessary or is requested by the injured person.
(Prior Code, § 5-240)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-696 and 60-697
§ 71.010 SCHOOL CROSSING ZONES.
   (A)   Designation.
      (1)   Neb. RS 60-682.01 provides fines for operating a motor vehicle in
violation of authorized speed limits and states that the fines are doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
      (2)   Neb. RS 60-6,134.01 makes it unlawful for a person operating a
motor vehicle to overtake and pass another vehicle in a school crossing zone in
which the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each direction and provides
fines for violation of that prohibition.
      (3)   The governing body may by resolution designate to the public any
area of a roadway, other than a freeway, as a school crossing zone through the
use of a sign or traffic control device as specified by the governing body in
conformity with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Any school
crossing zone so designated starts at the location of the first sign or traffic
control device identifying the school crossing zone and continues until a sign
or traffic control device indicates that the school crossing zone has ended.
(Prior Code, § 5-248)
   (B)   Overtaking and passing. A person operating a motor vehicle may not
overtake and pass another vehicle in any school crossing zone designated by the
governing body in which the roadway has only one lane of traffic in each
direction.
(Prior Code, § 5-249)
(Ord. 774, passed 11-3-1998; Ord. 775, passed 11-3-1998) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-658.01 and 60-6,134.01
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.025 BASIC RULE.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on a highway at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing. A person shall drive at a safe and appropriate
speed when approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade crossing,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway and when special hazards exist
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
(Neb. RS 60-6,185) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.026 MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with §
71.025, the limits set forth in this section and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,188,
60-6,305 and 60-6,313 shall be the maximum lawful speeds unless reduced
pursuant to division (B) below, and no person shall drive a vehicle on a
highway at a speed in excess of such maximum limits:
      (1)   Twenty-five mph in any residential district;
      (2)   Twenty mph in any business district;
      (3)   Fifty mph upon any highway that is gravel or not dustless surfaced;
      (4)   Fifty-five mph upon any dustless-surfaced highway not a part of the
state highway system;
      (5)   Sixty-five mph upon any four-lane divided highway not a part of the
state highway system; and
      (6)   Sixty-five mph upon any part of the state highway system other than
an expressway, a super-two highway or a freeway.
   (B)   The maximum speed limits established in division (A) above may be
reduced by the Department of Transportation or the City Council pursuant to
this subchapter or Neb. RS 60-6,188.
   (C)   The City Council may erect and maintain suitable signs along highways
under its jurisdiction in such number and at such locations as it deems
necessary to give adequate notice of the speed limits established pursuant to
divisions (A) or (B) above upon such highways.
(Neb. RS 60-6,186) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.027 BRIDGES AND OTHER ELEVATED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any public bridge, causeway,
viaduct, or other elevated structure at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety thereon when such structure
is posted with signs as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation or the City Council may conduct an
investigation of any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of
a highway under its jurisdiction, and if it finds that the structure cannot
safely withstand vehicles traveling at the speed otherwise permissible, the
Department or the City Council shall determine and declare the maximum speed of
vehicles which the structure can safely withstand and shall cause suitable
signs stating the maximum speed to be erected and maintained before each end of
the structure.
   (C)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of division (A)
above, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the Department or the
City Council and the existence of such signs shall constitute conclusive
evidence of the maximum speed which can be maintained with safety on the bridge
or structure.
(Neb. RS 60-6,189) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.028 ALTERNATIVE MAXIMUM LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Department of Transportation determines, upon the basis
of an engineering and traffic investigation, that any maximum speed limit is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection, place, or part of the state highway system outside of the
corporate limits of cities and villages, as well as inside the corporate limits
of cities and villages on freeways which are part of the state highway system,
it may determine and set a reasonable and safe maximum speed limit for such
intersection, place, or part of such highway, which shall be the lawful speed
limit when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at such
intersection, place, or part of the highway, except that the maximum rural and
freeway limits shall not be exceeded. Such a maximum speed limit may be set to
be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated upon such signs.
   (B)   On all highways within its corporate limits, except on state-
maintained freeways which are part of the state highway system, the City
Council shall have the same power and duty to alter the maximum speed limits as
the Department if the change is based on engineering and traffic investigation,
except that no imposition of speed limits on highways which are part of the
state highway system in the city shall be effective without the approval of the
Department.
   (C)   Not more than six such speed limits shall be set per mile along a
highway, except in the case of reduced limits at intersections, and the
difference between adjacent limits shall not be more than 20 mph, and there
shall be no limit on the difference between adjacent speed limits for
increasing speed limits along a highway.
   (D)   When the Department or the City Council determines by an investigation
that certain vehicles in addition to those specified in Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-
6,305, and 60-6,313 cannot with safety travel at the speeds provided in §§
71.21 and 71.22 and Neb. RS 60-6,187, 60-6,305, and 60-6,313, or set pursuant
to this section, § 71.22, or Neb. RS 60-6,188, the Department or the City
Council may restrict the speed limit for such vehicles on highways under its
respective jurisdiction and post proper and adequate signs.
(Neb. RS 60-6,190)
§ 71.029 NEAR SCHOOLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, when passing
premises on which school buildings are located and which are used for school
purposes, during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the opening or closing hours, to drive the vehicle at a rate of speed in
excess of 15 mph past the premises.
   (B)   The driver shall stop at all stop signs located at or near such school
premises, and it shall be unlawful for the driver to make a U-turn at any
intersection where such stop signs are located at or near such school premises.
Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 71.040 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as
to indicate an indifferent or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property shall be deemed to be guilty of reckless driving and as such shall be
punished as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-220)
   (B)   Willful. Any person who drives a motor vehicle in such a manner as to
indicate a willful disregard for the safety of persons, or property shall be
deemed to be guilty of willful, reckless driving and shall be punished as
provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5-221)
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182 and 60-6,213 through 60-6,218
§ 71.041 CARELESS DRIVING.
   Any person who drives any motor vehicle in this municipality carelessly or
without due caution so as to endanger a person or property shall be guilty of
careless driving.
(Neb. RS 60-6,212) (Prior Code, § 5-222) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.042 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   Any person who operates a motor vehicle in such a manner as to indicate a
want of ordinary care and caution that a person of ordinary prudence would use
under like circumstances shall be deemed guilty of negligent driving.
(Prior Code, § 5-223) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182
§ 71.043 BACKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to back a motor vehicle on the municipal
streets except to park in or to remove the vehicle from a permitted parking
position, to move the vehicle from a driveway or to back to the curb for
unloading where such unloading is permitted; provided, that a vehicle shall be
backed only when such movement can be made in safety, and in no case shall the
distance of the backing exceed one and one-half lengths of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-224) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,169
§ 71.044 UNNECESSARY STOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop any vehicle on any public street
or alley, other than in permitted parking areas, except when such a stop is
necessary for emergency situations, to comply with traffic control devices and
regulations or to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians or to other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-225) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,166
§ 71.045 PASSING.
   (A)   Intersections. The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction, while traversing a street
intersection, if such passing requires such overtaking vehicle to drive to the
left of the center of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-226)
   (B)   Hindrance. The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by
another vehicle shall not increase the speed of his or her vehicle until
completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-227)
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,133 and 60-6,136
§ 71.046 DRIVING ABREAST.
   Two or more vehicles shall not be driven abreast except when passing or when
traversing a multi-lane or one-way street; provided, that motorcycles may be
driven no more than two abreast in a single lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-228) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,139 and 60-6,308
§ 71.047 FOLLOWING.
   (A)   Distance. The operator of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard for the speed of
the vehicles and the traffic and condition of the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-229)
   (B)   Fire apparatus. The driver of any vehicle shall not follow any fire
apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive
into, or park such vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 5-230)
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,140 and 60-6,183
§ 71.048 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle, except police vehicles, Fire Department vehicles, when
responding to emergency calls or orders in their several departments,
ambulances responding to emergency calls or vehicles carrying United States
mail shall be driven through a funeral procession or cortege except with the
permission of a traffic officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-231) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,140
§ 71.049 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, or cause to be left, upon any
municipal highway, street or alley, except at places designated by the
governing body, any rubbish, debris or waste, and any person so doing shall be
guilty of littering.
(Prior Code, § 5-213) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 71.050 GLASS; POINTED OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, cast, lay or place upon any street any thorns, nails,
tacks, glass, bottles, window glass or other articles made of, or containing,
glass and in case of an accident causing the breaking of any glass upon any
street, the owner or person in charge of such glass, or the person responsible
for such breakage, shall at once remove or cause the same to be removed from
the street.
(Prior Code, § 5-214) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 39-311
§ 71.051 CROWDING; FRONT SEAT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there is
in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the
view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or to interfere with
the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-232) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,179
§ 71.052 DRAGGING ARTICLES.
   (A)   Rope, chain. No person shall permit any rope, strap, chain or other
article to drop behind any vehicle while in use on the streets, except persons
operating vehicles transporting gasoline, benzene or other flammable materials.
(Prior Code, § 5-233)
   (B)   Tree branches. No person shall drag or pull brush, tree branches or
limbs or trees upon the public streets in the city behind motor vehicles,
tractors or trailers.
(Prior Code, § 5-241)
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680, 60-6,243, and 60-6,286
§ 71.053 RIDING OUTSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person shall permit any other person to ride on the running board, hood,
top or fenders of any motor vehicle. Nor shall any person ride on the running
board, hood, top or fenders of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-234) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,179
§ 71.054 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy
vehicle shall attach himself or herself or the bicycle, coaster, roller skates,
sled, skis or toy vehicle to any vehicle upon a roadway, and it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to suffer or permit any person riding
upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skis or toy vehicle to cling or
attach himself or herself or the bicycle to such vehicle driven and operated by
him or her.
(Prior Code, § 5-235) (Ord. 650, passed 8-2-1994) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,316
§ 71.055 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   No motor vehicle or livestock shall be driven or ridden within any sidewalk
space, except a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,178) (Prior Code, § 5-236) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.056 DRIVING ON SHOULDERS OF HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Prohibited. No person shall drive on the shoulders of highways within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-244)
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to
vehicles driven by federal mail carriers while delivering the United States
mail, to vehicles involved in safely removing a vehicle from traffic lanes or
to implements of husbandry.
(Prior Code, § 5-245)
(Ord. 541, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,142
§ 71.057 WRONGFUL TAKING OF MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Whoever wrongfully takes any automobile or motorcycle from a garage, or any
other place where the same may have been lawfully placed, without the consent
of the owner, or who shall use any motor vehicle in bailment beyond that use
which was originally intended or agreed upon, with intent to wrongfully use the
automobile or motorcycle so taken, shall be guilty of wrongful taking of a
motor vehicle and shall be punished as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5-238) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-521
§ 71.058 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The municipality is hereby empowered to make and enforce temporary traffic
regulations to cover emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 5-239)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-2005
OPERATOR AND VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS
§ 71.070 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Muffler.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle operated within this municipality shall be
provided with a muffler in good working order to prevent excessive or unusual
noise or smoke. No person shall modify or change the exhaust muffler, intake
muffler or any other noise abatement device of a motor vehicle in a manner such
that the noise emitted by the motor vehicle is increased above that emitted by
the vehicle as originally manufactured.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to use a muffler cut-out on any motor vehicle
upon any streets; provided, the provisions of this section shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-401)
   (B)   Equipment and maintenance.
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, while in use on the streets, alleys or
highways of the municipality shall be equipped with efficient brakes adequate
to control the movement of, to stop and to hold such vehicle, including two
separate means of applying the brakes, and shall be further equipped with a
good and sufficient horn in good working order, or other efficient signal
devices. From sunset to sunrise, and any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons or vehicles upon the
street, alley or highway at a distance of 500 feet, every motor vehicle shall
be equipped with lighted headlights, and every motor vehicle and trailer shall
be equipped with one or more taillights, at the rear of the motor vehicle or
trailer, exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the rear of such vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall operate any vehicle which is equipped with an
electric light or lights that confuse travelers or pedestrians on streets or
crosswalks within the municipality. Every motor vehicle having a width of 80
inches or more shall display clearance lights as required by state law. All
vehicle brakes shall be maintained in good working order; provided, that
motorcycles need only be equipped with one brake. All horns on motor vehicles
shall be capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 200 feet; provided, that no vehicle except as herein
provided, shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use upon a vehicle, any
siren or horn otherwise than as reasonable warning; nor shall any person use
any horn or warning device upon a vehicle to make any unnecessary, loud or
harsh sound; and provided further that, every police vehicle or Fire Department
vehicle, ambulance or other authorized emergency vehicle used for emergency
calls shall be equipped with a bell, siren or whistle of the type approved by
the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-406)
(Ord. 653, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 726, passed 11-5-1996) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,219, 60-6,220, 60-6,224, 60-6,235, 60-
6,244,
    60-6,285, 60-6,286, and 60-6,371
§ 71.071 LOADS.
   (A)   Projecting. When any vehicle shall be loaded in such a manner that any
portion of the load extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or
the body of such vehicle, a red flag of not less than 12 inches both in length
and width shall be carried by day and red light after sunset at the extreme
rear end of such load.
(Prior Code, § 5-402)
   (B)   Spilling. All vehicles used for carrying coal, earth, cinders, sand,
gravel, rock, asphalt, tar or any similar substance shall be so constructed as
to prevent the sifting or spilling of any of the contents.
(Prior Code, § 5-403)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,243 and 60-6,304
§ 71.072 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Operator and vehicle license. No person shall operate or park a motor
vehicle upon any street, alley or public highway within the municipality
without having first registered the same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 3, (being Neb. RS 60-301 to 60-3,258), and Neb. RS 60-321, except as
provided in this division (A). A person may operate a motor vehicle without
registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date of purchase. Upon
registration, such vehicle shall have the required number plates displayed upon
said vehicle in the manner and places provided for by Neb. RS 60-399. If a
citation is issued to an owner or operator of a vehicle for a violation of this
division (A) and the owner properly registers and licenses the vehicle not in
compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and the owner or operator provides
proof of such registration to the prosecuting attorney within ten days after
the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for the offense cited shall occur.
No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or public
highway without having obtained a motor vehicle operator’s license in
accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60, Article 4. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street, alley or public highway
during the period that his or her operator’s license has been revoked or
canceled.
(Prior Code, § 5-404)
   (B)   Trailers. No trailer, semitrailer or cabin trailer shall be operated
or parked on any street, alley or public highway within the municipality
without having first registered the same in accordance with Neb. RS Chapter 60,
Article 3, (being Neb. RS 60-301 to 60-3,258), and Neb. RS 60-321, except as
provided in this division (B). A person may pull such trailer, semitrailer or
cabin trailer without registration for a period not to exceed 30 days from the
date of purchase. Upon registration, such trailer, semitrailer or cabin trailer
shall have the required number plate displayed upon said trailer as provided
for by Neb. RS 60-311. If a citation is issued to an owner or operator of a
vehicle for a violation of this division (B) and the owner properly registers
and licenses the vehicle not in compliance and pays all taxes and fees due and
the owner or operator provides proof of such registration to the prosecuting
attorney within ten days after the issuance of the citation, no prosecution for
the offense cited shall occur. 
(Prior Code, § 5-405)
(Ord. 651, passed 8-2-1994; Ord. 652, passed 8-2-1994; Ord. 724, passed 10-1-
1996; Ord. 725, passed 11-5-1996) Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-302, 60-399 and 60-4,186
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of any maximum
speed limit established for any highway or freeway as set out in §§
71.025 through
71.029 is guilty of a traffic infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined:
         (a)   For traveling one to five mph over the authorized speed limit:
$10;
         (b)   For traveling over five mph but not over ten mph over the
authorized speed limit: $25;
         (c)   For traveling over ten mph but not over 15 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $75;
         (d)   For traveling over 15 mph but not over 20 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $125;
         (e)   For traveling over 20 mph but not over 35 mph over the
authorized speed limit: $200; and
         (f)   For traveling over 35 mph over the authorized speed limit: $300.
      (2)   (a)   The fines prescribed in division (B)(1) above shall be
doubled if the violation occurs within a maintenance, repair, or construction
zone established pursuant to Neb. RS 60-6,188.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (B)(2), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE.
               a.   i.   The portion of a highway identified by posted or
moving signs as being under maintenance, repair, or construction;
                  ii.   The portion of a highway identified by maintenance,
repair, or construction zone speed limit signs displayed pursuant to Neb. RS
60-6,188; and
                  iii.   Within such portion of a highway where road
construction workers are present.
               b.   The MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, OR CONSTRUCTION ZONE starts at the
location of the first sign identifying the maintenance, repair, or construction
zone and continues until a posted or moving sign indicates that the
maintenance, repair, or construction zone has ended.
      (3)   The fines prescribed in division (B)(1) above shall be doubled if
the violation occurs within a school crossing zone.
(Neb. RS 60-682.01)
   (C)   Any person violating §
71.056(A) shall be guilty of a traffic infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-246)
   (D)   In the event anyone uses engine compression brakes within the city and
is convicted of the same, he or she shall be fined in an amount not more than
the sum of $500.
(Prior Code, § 5-247)
(Ord. 541, passed 10-4-1988; Ord. 753, passed 10-7-1997; Ord. 809, passed 1-8-
2002)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   General prohibitions; exceptions
   
72.02   Obstructing street, intersection or entrance
   
72.03   Intersections
   
72.04   Alleys
   
72.05   Truck parking, loading and unloading
   
72.06   Flammable and toxic substances prohibited
   
72.07   Display or repair of vehicle
   
72.08   Time limits
   
72.09   Snow; weather emergencies; snow routes
   
72.10   Parallel, angle and center parking
   
72.11   Parking on left side of curb
   
72.12   Residential parking; front and back yards
   
72.13   Backing freight vehicle to curb
   
72.14   Unattended motor vehicle
   
72.15   Painting of curbs
   
72.16   Main Street and library parking lots
   
72.17   Restricted parking lots
   
72.18   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; liability for costs
   
72.19   Bureau of Violations
Parking for Handicapped or Disabled Persons
   
72.30   Definitions
   
72.31   Designation of on-street parking spaces; display of permits
   
72.32   Designation of off-street parking stalls or spaces
   
72.33   Permit issuance
   
72.34   Motor vehicle permit issuance
   
72.35   Suspended permits; duplicate permits
   
72.36   Valid permit period; renewal
   
72.37   Permits nontransferable
   
72.38   Removal of unauthorized vehicles; penalty
   
72.39   Citations; complaints; trial
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park any vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure over a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad track; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet of any flashing signal, stop sign, yield sign or
other traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly signposted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as shall be
unlawful.
(Neb. RS 60-6,166) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 OBSTRUCTING STREET, INTERSECTION OR ENTRANCE.
   No person shall, except in case of an accident or emergency, stop any
vehicle in any location where stopping will obstruct any street, intersection
or entrance to an alley or public or private drive.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 INTERSECTIONS.
   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or when in
compliance with law or the directions of a peace officer or traffic control
device, no person shall park a vehicle or leave a vehicle standing for any
purpose, except momentarily to load or discharge passengers, within 25 feet of
the intersection of curb lines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the
intersection of property lines, or where the curb lines are painted red or
another color specified by the City Council to indicate such prohibition.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 ALLEYS.
   No vehicle shall be stopped or parked in any alley within the city except
for the purpose of being loaded or unloaded, which said purpose shall be
limited to not more than 30 minutes at any one time. Every vehicle while being
loaded or unloaded in any alley within the city shall be parked in such manner
as will cause the least obstruction possible to traffic in such alley.
(Prior Code, § 5-627) (Ord. 499, passed 9-22-1986) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 TRUCK PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck with an overall
length of more than 20 feet to park or stop such vehicle on a street within the
Business District except to load or unload when loading or unloading in an
alley is impossible and then only for the period of time reasonably necessary
to load or unload.
   (B)   If the City Council provides truck parking areas adjoining or adjacent
to the Business District, all truck operators shall use such parking areas for
all parking purposes.
   (C)   Except in an area provided for by the City Council by resolution, it
shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck, including an oil tanker, to
park or stop for any period of time within the limits of any street outside the
Business District except for the purpose of loading or unloading the cargo
thereof in the ordinary course of business.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 FLAMMABLE AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park or cause to be parked a vehicle, as defined by §
70.01, or storage tank, tank truck, transport, tanker or any other storage or
transport tank or vessel which contain flammable or toxic substances, whether
liquefied or in a gaseous state, including, but not limited to, anhydrous
ammonia and propane, at any time on any portion of any street of the city,
except for purposes of the loading or unloading thereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-620)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.07 DISPLAY OR REPAIR OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon any highway or public place
within the city any vehicle displayed for sale. Except when necessary due to a
breakdown or other emergency, no person shall adjust or repair, or race the
motor of, any motor vehicle or motorcycle while standing on the highways of the
city. No person or employee connected with a garage or repair shop shall use
sidewalks or highways in the vicinity of the garage or shop for the purpose of
working on vehicles of any description.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall park or cause to be parked a vehicle, as defined by §
70.01, on any portion of any street of said city for any time period in excess
of 24 hours. This restriction shall not apply in the case of a more restrictive
parking restriction contained elsewhere in this section or in the ordinances of
said city, and this section shall not be construed as repealing any chapter or
ordinance as the same presently exists.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park upon any street, alley, public road or
right-of-way adjacent to any street:
         (a)   Any unregistered, inoperable or partially dismantled vehicle;
         (b)   Any vehicle discharging fuel, oil, coolant or other liquid
(other than water); or
         (c)   Any vehicle presenting a health or safety hazard. Such vehicle
is declared a nuisance.
      (2)   The municipality may immediately cause any liquid(s) to be
contained and/or removed and the vehicle removed and stored. All costs related
to the containment and/or removal of liquid(s) and removal and storage of the
vehicle shall be at the expense of the owner/operator.
   (C)   Whenever any municipal law enforcement department officer shall find a
vehicle standing upon a street or alley or upon the space between the curb and
sidewalk of any street in the city, as dedicated, in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, such individual may remove, or have such vehicle
removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move
such vehicle to a position off the roadway of such street or alley or such
space between the curb and the sidewalk from such street, or alley, or
location.
   (D)   The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of such
vehicle may be charged with the reasonable costs of such removal and storage,
payable before such vehicle is released. Any such towing or storage fee shall
become a security interest in the vehicle prior to all other claims. This fee
shall be in addition to any other fees or penalties owed the municipality for
such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-617) (Ord. 962, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 72.09 SNOW; WEATHER EMERGENCIES; SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   During the snow removal season, which is hereby defined as the period
of time between November 1 of each year and April 1 of the following year, both
dates inclusive, all vehicles shall be parked on those portions of those
streets of the city, as are hereinbelow identified, at all times when there is
snowfall, in the manner following, to-wit: on even-numbered calendar dates on
the sides of said streets having even-numbered house numbers, and on odd-
numbered calendar dates on the side of said streets having odd-numbered house
numbers. If snowfall occurs during the hours of darkness of the days within
said snow removal season, all vehicles shall be parked on the proper sides of
said streets, as hereinabove provided, not later than 8:00 a.m. on the
following morning. After such snow has been plowed, pushed aside or otherwise
removed from the width of said streets, all vehicles may be parked thereon as
permitted prior to said snowfall. Should there be additional snowfall, all
vehicles must again be parked as hereinabove provided. The provisions herein
shall apply to all streets within the corporate limits of the city except Third
Street and Main Street, in their entireties. It shall be unlawful to park or
cause to be parked any vehicle in violation hereof.
   (B)   The governing body may by resolution designate any street as a snow
route and shall provide for appropriate signs or markings when such street has
been so designated.
   (C)   The city may establish snow emergency routes upon any street or
highway of the city and shall have appropriate signs, marks, lines, signals or
other traffic control devices placed to indicate the existence of said snow
emergency routes. Such designation of any street, highway or portion thereof as
a snow emergency route shall in no way affect any previous designation of the
street or highway as an arterial, collector, local or other road designation.
(Prior Code, § 5-613) (Ord. 962, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 PARALLEL, ANGLE AND CENTER PARKING.
   No person shall park any vehicle, or approach the curb with a vehicle,
except when headed in the direction of the traffic. Vehicles, when parked,
shall stand parallel with and adjacent to the curb or edge of the roadway, in
such manner as to have both right wheels within 12 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, and so as to leave at least four feet between the vehicle so
parked and any other parked vehicles, except where the governing body
designates that vehicles shall be parked at an angle so as to have the front
right wheel at the curb or edge of the roadway. Where stalls are designated
either on the curb or pavement, vehicles shall be parked within such stalls. No
vehicle shall be parked upon a roadway when there is a shoulder adjacent to the
roadway which is available for parking.
(Prior Code, § 5-602) (Ord. 662, passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680 and 60-6,167
§ 72.11 PARKING ON LEFT SIDE OF CURB.
   No vehicle shall park on any street with its left side to the curb unless
said street has been designated to be a one-way street by the governing body.
Vehicles must not be parked at any curb in such a position as to prevent
another vehicle already parked at the curb from moving away.
(Prior Code, § 5-611) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,167
§ 72.12 RESIDENTIAL PARKING; FRONT AND BACK YARDS.
   (A)   The governing body may by resolution set aside any street, alley,
public way or portion thereof where the parking of a particular kind or class
of vehicle shall be prohibited, or where the parking of any vehicle shall be
prohibited. No vehicle prohibited from parking thereon shall stand or be parked
adjacent to the curb of said street, alley, public way or portion thereof,
longer than a period of time necessary to load and unload freight or
passengers.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle owner and/or the owner, occupant,
lessee, mortgagee or person in possession, charge or control of any lot or
piece of ground which is residentially zoned or serves as a residence,
regardless of zoning, to park or allow a vehicle to park upon the front yard or
back yard of such lot or piece of ground, unless the vehicle is on a surface of
gravel, rock, asphalt or concrete maintained in good repair, without weeds or
grass. Exceptions to this division (B) shall include:
      (1)   Vehicle(s) owned by a commercial vendor when the vendor’s employee
(s) are performing work in conjunction with an open-building permit granted by
the municipality for such lot or piece of ground; and
      (2)   As necessary for the expedient loading and/or unloading of
materials.
(Prior Code, § 5-604) (Ord. 962, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 BACKING FREIGHT VEHICLE TO CURB.
   The operator of a vehicle of an over-all length of less than 20 feet,
including load, while loading or unloading freight may back the vehicle to the
curb but shall occupy as little of the street as possible.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand unattended on a highway without first doing the following:
   (A)   Stopping the motor of such vehicle;
   (B)   Except for vehicles equipped with motor starters that may be actuated
without a key, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition;
   (C)   Effectively setting the brakes thereon; and
    (D)   When standing upon any roadway, turning the front wheels of such
vehicle to the curb or side of such roadway.
(Neb. RS 60-6,168) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 PAINTING OF CURBS.
   (A)   The curb space within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant
shall be painted red, or another color specified by the City Council, to
indicate that parking is prohibited in such area.
   (B)   If the City Council adopts a resolution regulating or prohibiting the
parking or stopping of vehicles at the curb on highways in front of certain
facilities or at certain locations, the curbs adjacent to any such facility or
location shall be painted in such manner as directed by the City Council to
indicate such regulation or prohibition.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council or its agent to cause the
curb space to be painted and to keep the same painted as provided in this
chapter or as specified by the City Council. The marking or designating of
portions of highways where the parking of vehicles is prohibited or limited
shall be done only by the city through its proper officers, at the direction of
the City Council. No person shall paint the curb of any highway or in any
manner set aside, or attempt to prevent the parking of vehicles in, any highway
or part thereof, except at such places where the parking of vehicles is
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter or by a resolution adopted by the
City Council.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.16 MAIN STREET AND LIBRARY PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Parking permitted. Parking of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles,
bicycles and trailers shall be permitted and allowed upon the paved area of the
parking lot adjoining the east side of Main Street and located between Third
Street and Fourth Street in the city, and upon the paved area provided for
parking located southwest of the Dvoracek Memorial Library in said city, in
accordance with the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 5-621)
   (B)   Requirements. All vehicles shall be parked between the lines
designating the respective parking stalls. Any vehicle being either wider or
longer than the designated automobile parking stall shall be parked in the
stalls designated the respective parking at the south end of said parking area.
Entrance to said parking area shall be designated by signs to be erected by
authority of the City Council. Vehicles shall not be backed out from said
parking area onto Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 5-622)
   (C)   Leaking cargo. No truck shall be parked or permitted to stand upon
said area if the cargo or contents of such truck, or any part thereof, drop,
sift, leak or otherwise escape onto the parking area.
(Prior Code, § 5-623)
   (D)   Speed limits. No vehicle shall be operated or driven upon said area at
a rate of speed in excess of ten mph and in no event at a rate of speed that is
not reasonable and proper under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 5-624)
   (E)   Enforcement. The municipality and all traffic officers are hereby
authorized, empowered and ordered to exercise all powers and duties with
relation to management and regulation of parking and traffic upon said parking
area and to direct, control, stop, restrict and regulate and, when necessary,
temporarily divert or exclude, in the interest of public safety, health and
convenience the parking of vehicles upon said area. The City Council shall
cause to be posted such signs as are deemed appropriate in accordance with the
terms of this section directing use of said parking area. Failure to observe
all lawful orders of said traffic officers of the city or said signs so posted
shall be punishable as a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-625)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
§ 72.17 RESTRICTED PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Any person parking a motor vehicle in a properly posted, restricted
parking lot without the consent of the owner or tenant authorized to give
permission shall be guilty of an infraction, and the vehicle shall be subject
to being towed away at the request of such lot owner or tenant. Any person
found guilty under this chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided for
infractions. If the identity of the operator of a motor vehicle in violation of
this chapter cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name such
vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for such
infraction. When any law enforcement officer observes or is advised that a
motor vehicle may be in violation of this chapter, he or she shall make a
determination as to whether a violation has in fact occurred and if so shall
personally serve or attach to such motor vehicle a citation directed to the
owner or operator of such vehicle, which shall set forth the nature of the
violation. Any person who refuses to sign the citation or otherwise comply with
the command of the citation shall be punished as provided by Neb. RS 29-426.
   (B)   Signs designating a restricted parking lot shall be readily visible
and shall state the purpose or purposes for parking on the restricted parking
lot, state the hours for restricted parking and state who to contact for
information regarding a towed vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-626) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.18 REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   Whenever any traffic officer, or other authorized employee of a law
enforcement agency who is employed by the city and specifically empowered by
ordinance to act, finds a vehicle standing upon any highway within the
corporate limits of said city in violation of any of the provisions of the
State Rules of the Road, such individual may remove the vehicle or have such
vehicle removed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle
to move such vehicle, to a position off the roadway of such highway or from
such highway. The owner or other person lawfully entitled to the possession of
any vehicle towed or stored shall be charged with the reasonable cost of towing
and storage fees. Any such towing or storage fee shall be a lien upon the
vehicle prior to all other claims. Any person towing or storing a vehicle shall
be entitled to retain possession of such vehicle until such charges are paid.
The lien provided for in this section shall not apply to the contents of any
vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 5-615) (Ord. 542, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,165
§ 72.19 BUREAU OF VIOLATIONS.
   There is hereby created the Bureau of Violations within the powers and
duties as provided by the City Council. A copy of each citation issued for non-
moving traffic violations shall be deposited with the police, whose duty it
shall be to collect all fines and to maintain appropriate and accurate records
of all such fines paid to him or her. Fines shall be payable to the
municipality. Such fines shall be in the amount of $10 for each violation, if
paid within 30 days from the date of issuance. Should any such fine not be paid
within the 30-day period, the municipality shall ask the Municipal Attorney to
file a complaint in the appropriate court. The fine for any such violation,
after 30 days, or after judgment is entered against the violator, shall be
raised at the governing body’s discretion to cover any additional cost incurred
by the municipality. All money collected by the municipality under this section
shall be transferred to the school district in which the municipality lies.
(Prior Code, § 5-616)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1729
PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS
§ 72.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS AISLE. A space adjacent to a handicapped parking space or passenger
loading zone which is constructed and designed in compliance with the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and
the federal rules and regulations adopted and promulgated in response to the
Act.
   HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any individual with a severe visual,
neurological, or physical impairment which limits personal mobility and results
in an inability to travel unassisted more than 200 feet without the use of a
wheelchair, crutch, walker or prosthetic, orthotic or other assistant device,
any individual whose personal mobility is limited as a result of respiratory
problems, any individual who has a cardiac condition to the extent that his or
her functional limitations are classified in severity as being Class III or
Class IV, according to standards set by the American Heart Association, and any
individual who has permanently lost all or substantially all the use of one or
more limbs.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING INFRACTION. The violation of any section of this
subchapter regulating:
      (1)   The use of parking spaces, including access aisles, designated for
use by handicapped or disabled persons;
      (2)   The unauthorized possession, use or display of handicapped or
disabled parking permits; or
      (3)   The obstruction of any wheelchair ramps constructed or created in
accordance and in conformity with the federal Americans with Disabilities Act
of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
   TEMPORARILY HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSON. Any handicapped or disabled
person whose personal mobility is expected to be limited in such manner for no
longer than one year.
(Prior Code, § 5-614) (Ord. 667, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 728, passed 11-5-1996;
Ord. 761, passed 2-3-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736, 18-1741.01, and 60-352.01
§ 72.31 DESIGNATION OF ON-STREET PARKING SPACES; DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The governing body may designate parking spaces, including access
aisles, for the exclusive use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to handicapped or disabled persons
pursuant to Neb. RS 60-3,113;
      (2)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display a
distinguishing license plate issued to a handicapped or disabled person by
another state;
      (3)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
      (4)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit. All such permits shall be displayed by hanging the permit
from the motor vehicle’s rearview mirror so as to be clearly visible through
the front windshield. The permit shall be displayed on the dashboard only when
there is no rearview mirror.
   (B)   If the governing body so designates a parking space or access aisle,
it shall be indicated by posting aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from each space or access aisle sign as described in Neb. RS 18-1737.
In addition to such sign, the space or access aisle may also be indicated by
blue paint on the curb or edge of the paved portion of the street adjacent to
the space or access aisle.
(Prior Code, § 5-614.01) (Ord. 665, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 727, passed 11-5-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1736
§ 72.32 DESIGNATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING STALLS OR SPACES.
   (A)   The municipality and any person in lawful possession of any off-street
parking facility may designate stalls or spaces, including access aisles, in
such facility owned or operated by the municipality or person for the exclusive
use of:
      (1)   Handicapped or disabled persons whose motor vehicles display the
distinguishing license plates issued to such individuals pursuant to Neb. RS
60-3,113;
      (2)   Such other handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily
handicapped or disabled persons, as certified by the municipality, whose motor
vehicles display the permit specified in Neb. RS 18-1739; and
      (3)   Such other motor vehicles, as certified by the municipality, which
display such permit.
   (B)   Such designation shall be made by posting aboveground and immediately
adjacent to and visible from each stall or space, including access aisles, a
sign which is in conformance with the requirements in Neb. RS 18-1737.
(Prior Code, § 5-614.02) (Ord. 666, passed 10-4-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.33 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk may take an application, on a form provided by the
Department of Motor Vehicles, from a handicapped or disabled person or
temporarily handicapped or disabled person or his or her parent, legal guardian
or foster parent for a permit which will entitle the holder thereof or a person
driving a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting such holder to park in
those spaces or access aisles provided for by this subchapter when the holder
of the permit will enter or exit the motor vehicle while it is parked in such
spaces or access aisles. For the purpose of this section, the handicapped or
disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person shall be
considered the holder of the permit.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit shall
complete an application, shall provide proof of identity and shall submit a
completed medical form containing the statutory criteria for qualification and
signed by a physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered
nurse certifying that the person who will be the holder meets the definition of
handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped or disabled person.
No applicant shall be required to provide his or her Social Security number. In
the case of a temporarily handicapped or disabled person, the certifying
physician, physician assistant or advanced practice registered nurse shall
indicate the estimated date of recovery or that the temporary handicap or
disability will continue for a period of six months, whichever is less.
   (C)   A person may hold only one permit under this section and may hold
either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.34, but not both.
   (D)   A copy of the completed application form shall be given to each
applicant. The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (E)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to the provisions of Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Prior Code, § 5-614.03) (Ord. 565, passed 12-5-1989; Ord. 603, passed 6-2-
1992; Ord. 627, passed 8-3-1993; Ord. 665, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 666, passed
10-4-1994; Ord. 667, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 668, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 669,
passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 729, passed 11-5-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738 and 18-1738.02
§ 72.34 MOTOR VEHICLE PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk may take an application from any person for a
motor vehicle permit which will entitle the holder thereof, or a person driving
the motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, to park in those spaces
or access aisles provided for by this subchapter if the motor vehicle is used
primarily for the transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or
temporarily handicapped or disabled persons. Such parking permit shall be used
only when the motor vehicle for which it was issued is being used for the
transportation of a handicapped or disabled person or temporarily handicapped
or disabled person and such person will enter or exit the motor vehicle while
it is parked in such designated spaces or access aisles.
   (B)   A person applying for a permit or for the renewal of a permit pursuant
to this section shall apply for a permit for each motor vehicle used for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, shall complete such forms as are provided to the Municipal
Clerk by the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall demonstrate to the
Municipal Clerk that each such motor vehicle is used primarily for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons. A copy of the completed application form shall be given to
each applicant.
   (C)   No more than one such permit shall be issued for each motor vehicle. A
person may hold either a permit under this section or a permit under §
72.33, but not both.
   (D)   An application for the renewal of a permit under this section may be
filed within 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The existing permit
shall be invalid upon receipt of the new permit.
   (E)   The Municipal Clerk shall submit to the Department of Motor Vehicles
the name, address and license number of all persons applying for a permit
pursuant to this section.
   (F)   The Municipal Clerk shall not accept the application for a permit of
any person making application contrary to Neb. RS 18-1738.02.
(Prior Code, § 5-614.04) (Ord. 730, passed 11-5-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1738.01 and 18-1738.02
§ 72.35 SUSPENDED PERMITS; DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued to any person or for any motor vehicle if
any parking permit has been issued to such person or for such motor vehicle and
such permit has been suspended pursuant to §
72.37. At the expiration of such suspension, a permit may be renewed in the
manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
   (B)   A duplicate permit may be provided without cost if the original permit
is destroyed, lost or stolen. Such duplicate permit shall be issued in the same
manner as the original permit, except that a newly completed medical form need
not be provided if a completed medical form submitted at the time of the most
recent application for a permit or its renewal is on file with the Municipal
Clerk or the Department of Motor Vehicles. A duplicate permit shall be valid
for the remainder of the period for which the original permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 5-614.05) (Ord. 731, passed 11-5-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1739
§ 72.36 VALID PERMIT PERIOD; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Permanently issued permits for handicapped or disabled parking
authorized under this subchapter issued prior to August 1, 2005, shall be valid
for a period ending on September 30 of the third year after the date of
issuance and shall expire on that date. Permanently issued permits issued on or
after August 1, 2005 shall be valid for a period ending on the last day of the
month of the applicant’s birthday in the third year after issuance and shall
expire on that day.
   (B)   All permits authorized under this subchapter for temporarily
handicapped or disabled parking shall be issued for a period ending not more
than six months after the date of issuance but may be renewed one time for a
period not to exceed six months. For the renewal period, there shall be
submitted an additional application with proof of a handicap or disability.
(Prior Code, § 5-614.06) (Ord. 668, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 732, passed 12-3-
1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1740
§ 72.37 PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable and
shall be used only by the party to whom issued or for the motor vehicle for
which issued and only for the purpose for which it is issued. No person shall
alter or reproduce in any manner a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter.
No person shall knowingly hold more than one permit or knowingly provide false
information on an application for a permit.
   (B)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued to him or her as a handicapped or disabled person shall display a
handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a space or access aisle
designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or disabled person.
   (C)   No person who is the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for the use of such person when transporting a handicapped or
disabled person shall display his or her handicapped or disabled parking permit
and park in a space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a
handicapped or disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is
actually in the vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has
left the vehicle while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it
leaves the designated space or access aisle.
   (D)   No person who is not the holder of a handicapped or disabled parking
permit issued for use when a vehicle is transporting a handicapped or disabled
person shall display a handicapped or disabled parking permit and park in a
space or access aisle designated for the exclusive use of a handicapped or
disabled person unless a handicapped or disabled person is actually in the
vehicle displaying the permit at the time it is parked, has left the vehicle
while it was parked and will return to the vehicle before it leaves the
designated space or access aisle.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a handicapped parking
infraction and shall be cause for suspension of such permit for a period of six
months and imposition of the penalty provided for violation of this subchapter.
In addition, the trial court shall impose a fine of not more than $250 which
may be waived by the court if, at the time of sentencing, all handicapped
parking permits issued to or in the possession of the offender are returned to
the court. At the expiration of such six-month period, a suspended permit may
be renewed in the manner provided for renewal in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-614.07) (Ord. 733, passed 12-3-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741
§ 72.38 REMOVAL OF UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLES; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or person in lawful possession of an off-street parking
facility, after notifying the municipality, if it provides on-street parking or
owns, operates or provides an off-street parking facility, may cause the
removal, from a stall or space, including access aisles, designated exclusively
for handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled
persons or motor vehicles for the transportation of handicapped or disabled
persons or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons, of any vehicle not
displaying the proper permit or the distinguishing license plates specified in
this subchapter if there is posted aboveground and immediately adjacent to and
visible from such stall or space, including access aisles, a sign which clearly
and conspicuously states the area so designated as a tow-in zone.
   (B)   A person who parks a vehicle in any on-street parking space or access
aisle which has been designated exclusively for handicapped or disabled persons
or temporarily handicapped or disabled persons or motor vehicles for the
transportation of handicapped or disabled persons or temporarily handicapped or
disabled persons, or in any so exclusively designated parking space or access
aisle in any off-street parking facility, without properly displaying the
proper permit or when the handicapped or disabled person to whom or for whom,
as the case may be, the license plate or permit is issued will not enter or
exit the vehicle while it is parked in the designated space or access aisle
shall be guilty of a handicapped parking infraction and shall be subject to the
penalties and procedures set forth in §
72.39. The display on a motor vehicle of a distinguishing license plate or
permit issued to a handicapped or disabled person by and under the duly
constituted authority of another state shall constitute a full and complete
defense in any action for a handicapped parking infraction. If the identity of
the person who parked the vehicle in violation of this section cannot be
readily determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered
shall be held prima facie responsible for such violation and shall be guilty
and subject to the penalties and procedures described in this section.
   (C)   In the case of a privately owned off-street parking facility, the
municipality shall not require the owner or person in lawful possession of such
facility to inform the municipality of a violation of this section prior to the
municipality issuing the violator a handicapped parking infraction citation.
(Prior Code, § 5-614.08) (Ord. 669, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 734, passed 12-3-
1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1737
§ 72.39 CITATIONS; COMPLAINTS; TRIAL.
   (A)   For any offense classified as a handicapped parking infraction, a
handicapped parking citation may be issued by any peace officer or by any
person designated by ordinance by the governing body to exercise the authority
to issue a citation for any handicapped parking infraction.
   (B)   When a handicapped parking citation is issued for a handicapped
parking infraction, the person issuing the handicapped parking citation shall
enter thereon all required information, including the name and address of the
cited person or, if not known, the license number and description of the
offending motor vehicle, the offense charged and the time and place the person
cited is to appear in court. Unless the person cited requests an earlier date,
the time of appearance shall be at least three days after the issuance of the
handicapped parking citation. One copy of the handicapped parking citation
shall be delivered to the person cited or attached to the offending motor
vehicle.
   (C)   At least 24 hours before the time set for the appearance of the cited
person, either the Municipal Attorney or other person authorized by law to
issue a complaint for the particular offense shall issue and file a complaint
charging such person with a handicapped parking infraction or such person shall
be released from the obligation to appear as specified.
   (D)   The trial of any person for a handicapped parking infraction shall be
by the court without a jury. A person cited for a handicapped parking violation
may waive his or her right to trial.
(Prior Code, § 5-614.09) (Ord. 670, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1741.01, 18-1741.04 and 18-1741.06
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.001   Operation
Motorcycles
   
73.015   Lights
   
73.016   Riding tandem
   
73.017   Helmet required
Snowmobiles
   
73.030   Equipment
   
73.031   Unlawful operation
   
73.032   Operation on public lands
   
73.033   Enforcement
All-Terrain Vehicles and Utility-type Vehicles
   
73.045   Definitions
   
73.046   Operation
   
73.047   Equipment
   
73.048   Permit and licensing fee
   
73.049   Prohibitions
   
73.050   Competition
   
73.051   Accidents; report required
   
73.052   Enforcement
Golf Carts
   
73.065   Operation
Mini-Bikes
   
73.080   Unlawful operation
   
73.081   Emergencies and parades
   
73.082   Operation on public lands
   
73.083   Traffic laws inapplicable
Mopeds
   
73.095   Traffic laws applicable
   
73.096   Operator’s license required
   
73.097   Traffic regulations applicable
   
73.098   Operation
   
73.099   Use of traffic lanes
   
73.100   Equipment
 
   
73.999   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.001 OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a street or highway within the
municipality with another person on the handlebars or in any position in front
of the operator. No bicycle shall be operated faster than is reasonable and
proper, but every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the
safety of the operator and any other persons upon the streets and highways.
Persons operating bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at all stop
signs. No bicycle shall be operated on any street or highway from sunset to
sunrise without a headlight visible from the front thereof for not less than
500 feet on a clear night and a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall
be visible on a clear night from all distances between 100 feet and 600 feet to
the rear when directly in from of lawful lower beams of headlights on a motor
vehicle. A red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to such red reflector.
   (B)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a street or highway shall not
ride more than single file except on parts of streets or highways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (C)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway at less than the
normal speed of traffic at the time and place and under conditions then
existing shall ride as near to the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the
roadway as practicable except when:
      (1)   Overtaking and passing another bicycle or vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
      (2)   Preparing for a left turn onto a private road or driveway or at an
intersection;
      (3)   Reasonably necessary to avoid conditions that make it unsafe to
continue along the right-hand curb or right-hand edge of the roadway, including
fixed or moving objects, stopped or moving vehicles, bicycles, pedestrians,
animals or surface hazards;
      (4)   Riding upon a lane of substandard width which is too narrow for a
bicycle and a vehicle to travel safely by side within the lane; or
      (5)   Lawfully operating a bicycle on the paved shoulders of a highway
included in the state highway system as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,142.
   (D)   Any person who operates a bicycle upon a roadway with a posted speed
limit of 35 mph or less on which traffic is restricted to one direction of
movement and which has two or more marked traffic lanes may ride as near to the
left-hand curb or left-hand edge of the roadway as practicable. Whenever a
person operating a bicycle leaves the roadway to ride on the paved shoulder or
leaves the paved shoulder to enter the roadway, the person shall clearly signal
his or her intention and yield the right-of-way to all other vehicles. No
person shall park a bicycle on any sidewalk unless a bicycle stand is located
on said sidewalk. No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks within the
business district.
(Prior Code, § 5-501) (Ord. 654, passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,315, 60-6,317 and 60-6,318
MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.015 LIGHTS.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle upon the streets, alleys or highways
within the municipality from sunset to sunrise unless the same is equipped with
at least one and not more than two headlights and a taillight exhibiting a red
light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear of such
motorcycle. The headlights shall comply with the requirements and limitations
set forth in the State Rules of the Road.
(Prior Code, § 5-502) (Ord. 655, passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,219
§ 73.016 RIDING TANDEM.
   No person operating a motorcycle shall carry another person in front of the
operator.
(Prior Code, § 5-503) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,307
§ 73.017 HELMET REQUIRED.
   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on a motorcycle or moped on any
highway unless such person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and
design manufactured for use by operators of such vehicles and unless such
helmet is secured properly on his or her head with a chin strap while the
vehicle is in motion. All such protective helmets shall be designed to reduce
injuries to the user resulting from head impacts and shall be designed to
protect the user by remaining on the user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting
penetration and spreading the force of impact. Each such helmet shall consist
of lining, padding and chin strap and shall meet or exceed the standards
established in the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 C.F.R. § 571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
(Prior Code, § 5-503.01) (Ord. 540, passed 10-4-1988; Ord. 656, passed 9-6-
1994) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,278 through 60-6,282
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.030 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every snowmobile operated within the municipality shall be registered
with the state, as required by law. No snowmobile shall be operated upon a
public street or highway unless it is equipped with at least one head lamp, one
tail lamp, reflector material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted on
each side forward of the handle bars and with brakes as prescribed by the
Director of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   All laws applying to the operation of other motor vehicles shall apply
to snowmobiles, except those relating to required equipment and those which, by
their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 5-508)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,335
§ 73.031 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be deemed a misdemeanor for any person to allow a snowmobile,
either owned or operated by him or her, to be operated:
   (A)   Within the congested area of the municipality unless weather
conditions are such that it provides the only practicable method of safe
vehicular travel, or said snowmobile is engaged in responding to an emergency;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
surrounding circumstances;
   (C)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger person
or property;
   (D)   Without a lighted headlight and taillight when such would be required
by conditions;
   (E)   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock; or
   (F)   Upon any private lands without first having obtained permission of the
owner, lessee or operator of such lands.
(Prior Code, § 5-509) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,335 and 60-6,337
§ 73.032 OPERATION ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   Snowmobiles shall be prohibited from operation on the public lands owned by
the municipality, except where allowed by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-510) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,338
§ 73.033 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer, including a conservation officer, may enforce the
provisions relating to snowmobiles.
(Prior Code, § 5-511)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,343
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLES
§ 73.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
      (1)   Is 50 inches or less in width;
      (2)   Has a dry weight of 1,200 pounds or less;
      (3)   Travels on three or more non-highway tires; and
      (4)   Is designed for operator use only with no passengers or is
specifically designed by the original manufacturer for the operator and one
passenger.
   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motorized off-highway vehicle which:
         (a)   Is 74 inches in width or less;
         (b)   Is not more than 180 inches, including the bumper, in length;
         (c)   Has a dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less; and
         (d)   Travels on four or more non-highway tires.
      (2)   UTILITY-TYPE VEHICLE does not include all-terrain vehicles, golf
car vehicles or low-speed vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-701) (Ord. 523, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 938, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,355
§ 73.046 OPERATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, an all-terrain vehicle or a
utility-type vehicle may be operated only between the hours of sunrise and
sunset on any street or road within the municipality, and only upon streets as
further set forth herein. An all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle
shall not be operated on any sidewalk within the municipality.
   (B)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle
within the municipality on any street or road shall have a valid Class O
operator’s license or a farm permit, as provided in Neb. RS 60-4,126, and shall
be of the age of 17 years or older.
   (C)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle
on any street or road within the municipality at a speed in excess of 20 mph.
   (D)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle on
any street or road within the municipality shall have liability insurance
coverage on the same while operating the all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle on any street or road and shall provide proof of such insurance
coverage to any peace officer requesting such proof within five days of such a
request.
   (E)   Any all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle being operated as
authorized by this section shall have the headlight and taillight of the
vehicle on, and said vehicle shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which
extends not less than five feet above ground attached to the rear of such
vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of
not less than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (F)   A person shall not operate or be a passenger on an all-terrain vehicle
or utility-type vehicle on any street or road in the municipality unless such
person is wearing a protective helmet of the type and design manufactured for
use by operators of motorcycles and unless such helmet is secured properly on
his or her head with a chin strap while the vehicle is in motion. All such
protective helmets shall be designed to reduce injuries to the user resulting
from head impact and shall be designed to protect the user by remaining on the
user’s head, deflecting blows, resisting penetration and spreading the force of
impact. Each such helmet shall consist of lining, padding and chin strap and
shall meet or exceed the standards established in the United States Department
of Transportation’s Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, 49 C.F.R. §
571.218, for motorcycle helmets.
   (G)   Except as provided in this section, an all-terrain vehicle or utility-
type vehicle shall not be operated on any state highway within the
municipality. However, the crossing of a state highway shall be permitted by an
all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle, only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction presents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and the taillight of the vehicle are on when the
crossing is made.
   (H)   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles may be operated on
streets, roads or highways in parades which have been authorized by the state
or the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-702) (Ord. 523, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 661, passed 9-6-1994;
Ord. 874, passed 7-14-2009; Ord. 938, passed 6-12-2018; Ord. 941, passed 12-11-
2018) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.047 EQUIPMENT.
   Every all-terrain vehicle and utility-type vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   A brake system maintained in good operating order;
   (B)   An adequate muffler system in good working condition; and
   (C)   A United States Forest Service qualified spark arrester.
(Prior Code, § 5-703) (Ord. 523, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 938, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,358
§ 73.048 PERMIT AND LICENSING FEE.
   (A)   No all-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles shall be operated on
any street within the municipality unless it has displayed upon the front left
portion thereof a current sticker issued by the municipality.
   (B)   Said sticker shall be obtained annually upon the following.
      (1)   The owner thereof shall provide proof of valid and current
liability insurance coverage, as required by state law for all-terrain vehicles
and utility-type vehicles.
      (2)   The owner shall pay an annual licensing fee to the municipality in
the sum of $25, on or before May 1 of each calendar year. Any licensing fee
paid after May 1 shall incur an additional $5 late fee.
      (3)   An owner shall be entitled to a ten-day temporary permit at any
time and shall pay a temporary licensing fee of $10 for each such ten-day
temporary permit obtained.
(Prior Code, § 5-704) (Ord. 523, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 941, passed 12-11-2018;
Ord. 938, passed 6-12-2018) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.049 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Equip the exhaust system of an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type
vehicle with a cut out, bypass or similar device;
   (B)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or a utility-type vehicle with an
exhaust system so modified; or
   (C)   Operate an all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle with the spark
arrester removed or modified except for use in closed-course competition
events.
(Prior Code, § 5-705) (Ord. 523, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 938, passed 6-12-2018)
Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,359
§ 73.050 COMPETITION.
   All-terrain vehicles and utility-type vehicles participating in competitive
events may be exempted from §§
73.047 through
73.049 at the discretion of the Director of the State Department of Motor
Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 5-706) (Ord. 523, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 938, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,360
§ 73.051 ACCIDENTS; REPORT REQUIRED.
   If an accident results in the death of any person or in the injury of any
person which requires the treatment of the person by a physician, the operator
of each all-terrain vehicle or utility-type vehicle involved in the accident
shall give notice of the accident in the same manner as provided in Neb. RS 60-
505.
(Prior Code, § 5-707) (Ord. 523, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 938, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,361
§ 73.052 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any peace officer of the state, or of any political subdivision thereof,
including conservation officers of the Game and Parks Commission shall be
charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-709) (Ord. 523, passed 11-3-1987; Ord. 938, passed 6-12-2018)
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.065 OPERATION.
   (A)   A golf car vehicle, also known as a golf cart, may be operated within
the municipality only between sunrise and sunset, and only upon streets, as
further set forth herein. A golf car vehicle, also known as a golf cart, shall
not be operated on any sidewalks within the municipality.
   (B)   Any person operating a golf car vehicle, also known as a golf cart, as
authorized herein, shall have a valid Class O motor vehicle operator’s license
as issued by the State Department of Motor Vehicles and shall be of an age of
17 years or older.
   (C)   Any person operating a golf car vehicle, also known as a golf cart,
within the municipality shall not operate such vehicle at a speed in excess of
20 mph, and with the exception of crossing any state highway as further
provided in this section, golf car vehicles, also known as golf carts, may only
be operated on streets with a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less.
   (D)   (1)   No golf car vehicle, also known as a golf cart, shall be
operated on any street within the municipality unless it has displayed upon the
front left portion thereof a current sticker issued by the municipality. Said
sticker shall be obtained annually upon the owner:
         (a)   Providing proof of valid and current liability insurance
coverage, as required by state law for golf car vehicles, also known as golf
carts; and
         (b)   Paying an annual licensing fee to the municipality in the sum of
$25 on or before May 1 of each calendar year. Any licensing fee paid after May
1 shall incur an additional $5 late fee.
      (2)   An owner shall be entitled to a ten-day temporary permit at any
time and shall pay a temporary licensing fee of $10 for each such ten-day
temporary permit obtained.
   (E)   When operating a golf car vehicle, also known as a golf cart, as
authorized herein, the same shall be equipped with a bicycle safety flag which
extends not less than five feet above ground, attached to the rear of such
vehicle. The bicycle flag shall be triangular in shape with an area of not less
than 30 square inches and shall be day-glow in color.
   (F)   A golf car vehicle, also known as a golf cart, shall not be operated
on any state highway within the municipality, except as further provided in
this section.
   (G)   The crossing of a state highway shall be permitted by a golf car
vehicle, also known as a golf cart, only if:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction presents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or roadway of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate potential hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of such highway with another highway; and
      (5)   Both the headlight and taillight of the golf car vehicle, also
known as a golf cart, are on when the crossing is made.
   (H)   Golf car vehicles, also known as golf carts, may be operated on
streets, roads or highways in parades which have been authorized by the state
or the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-710) (Ord. 874, passed 7-14-2009; Ord. 940, passed 12-11-2018)
Penalty, see §
73.999
MINI-BIKES
§ 73.080 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike upon any street or
highway within the corporate limits of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 5-504) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,347 and 60-6,352
§ 73.081 EMERGENCIES AND PARADES.
   Minibikes shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter during any
public emergency or while being used in parades by regularly organized units of
any recognized charitable, social, educational or community service
organization.
(Prior Code, § 5-505)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,348
§ 73.082 OPERATION ON PUBLIC LANDS.
   Minibikes shall be prohibited upon the public lands owned by the
municipality except where allowed by resolution of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-506) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,348
§ 73.083 TRAFFIC LAWS INAPPLICABLE.
   (A)   The provisions of Neb. RS Chapter 60, Articles 1, 3, 4, and 5 shall
not be applicable to the owners and operators of any minibike.
   (B)   Minibikes, their owners and their operators shall be exempt from the
requirements of the Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, the Motor Vehicle
Registration Act and the Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act.
(Prior Code, § 5-507)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
   Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act, see Neb. RS 60-569
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,347
MOPEDS
§ 73.095 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE.
   Mopeds, their owners and their operators, shall be subject to the Motor
Vehicle Operator’s License Act, but shall be exempt from the requirements of
the Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, the Motor Vehicle Registration Act
and the Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act.
(Neb. RS 60-6,309) (Prior Code, § 5-512)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act, see Neb. RS 60-101
   Motor Vehicle Operator’s License Act, see Neb. RS 60-462
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
   Motor Vehicle Safety Responsibility Act, see Neb. RS 60-569
§ 73.096 OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a moped upon the streets, alleys or highways within
the municipality unless such person has a valid Class O operator’s license or a
valid school or learner’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 5-513) (Ord. 657, passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,310
§ 73.097 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   (A)   Any person who rides a moped upon a roadway shall have all the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a motor
vehicle under the State Rules of the Road except for special moped regulations
in the rules and except for those provisions of the rules which by their nature
can have no application. Such regulations applicable to mopeds shall apply
whenever a moped is operated upon any street, alley or highway within the
municipality or upon any path set aside by the Department of Roads or the
municipality for the use of mopeds.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any established maximum speed limits in excess of 25
mph, no person shall operate any moped at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
(Prior Code, § 5-514) (Ord. 658, passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,311 and 60-6,313
§ 73.098 OPERATION.
   (A)   Any person who operates a moped shall ride only upon a permanent and
regular seat attached to the moped. A person operating a moped shall not carry
any other person nor shall any other person ride on a moped unless such moped
is designed by the manufacturer to carry more than one person. A person shall
ride upon a moped only while sitting astride the seat, facing forward.
   (B)   No person shall operate a moped while carrying any package, bundle or
other article which prevents him or her from keeping both hands on the
handlebars. No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a
position that interferes with the operation or control of the moped or the view
of the operator. Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with
footrests for such passenger.
(Prior Code, § 5-515) (Ord. 659, passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,312
§ 73.099 USE OF TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   A moped shall be entitled to full use of a traffic lane of any highway
with an authorized speed limit of 45 mph or less, and no vehicle shall be
operated in such a manner as to deprive any moped of the full use of such lane,
except that mopeds and motorcycles may be operated two abreast in a single
lane. No person shall operate a moped between lanes of traffic or between
adjacent lines or rows of vehicles. Mopeds shall not be operated more than two
abreast in a single lane.
   (B)   Any person who operates a moped on a roadway with an authorized speed
limit of more than 45 mph shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway
as practicable and shall not ride more than single file. No person who rides
upon a moped shall attach himself, herself or the moped to any other vehicle on
a roadway. Mopeds shall not be operated on the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 5-516) (Ord. 660, passed 9-6-1994) Penalty, see §
73.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,313
§ 73.100 EQUIPMENT.
   Any moped which carries a passenger shall be equipped with footrests for
such passenger. No person shall operate any moped with handlebars more than 15
inches above the mounting point of the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 5-517) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
73.017 shall be guilty of a traffic infraction and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-503.02)
   (C)   Any violations of §§
73.046 through
73.051 which is also a violation under Neb. RS Chapters 39 or 60 may be
punished under the penalty provisions of such chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-708)
   (D)   Any person convicted of violating any rule or regulation dealing with
snowmobiles shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or imprisonment
not to exceed 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 5-511)
(Ord. 540, passed 10-4-1988; Ord. 938, passed 6-12-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-4,182 and 60-6,362
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limits generally.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, alley or
other place at a rate of speed greater than the following limits.
Street Location Speed Limit
Street                      Location                            Speed Limit
                            Business District                   20 mph
                            Residential District                25 mph
Highway N-41 (Third Street) From the west city limits to School 35 mph
                            Street
Highway N-41 (Third Street) From School Street to Main Street   25 mph
Highway N-41 (Third Street) From Main Street to the east city   35 mph
                            limits
Highway N-103               From Elm Street to Sixth Street     35 mph
Highway N-103 (Main Street  From the north city limits to Elm   45 mph
                            Street
Highway N-103 (Main Street) From Sixth Street to the south city 40 mph
                            limits
 
      (2)   In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a highway at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions. Where a
different maximum speed is set by ordinance, appropriate signs shall be posted.
(Prior Code, § 5-217)
   (B)   South School Street, Legion Circle and Legion Drive.
 
Street              Location                                        Speed Limit
Legion Circle       In Legion Memorial Park                         20 mph
Legion Drive        In Legion Memorial Park                         20 mph
School Street       Commencing at Seventh Street to Ninth Street    20 mph
South School Street Between the intersection of South School Street 20 mph
                    and Legion Circle in Legion Memorial Park
South School Street Between the intersection of South School Street 20 mph
                    and West Eighth Street
 
(Prior Code, § 5-217.01)
   (C)   Third Street; Main Street.
      (1)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a motor vehicle on
that portion of the following described streets within the corporate limits of
the city.
Street Location Speed Limit
Street       Location                                             Speed Limit
Main Street  Commencing 600 feet south of Eighth Street to Sixth  45 mph
             Street
Main Street  From Sixth Street to Elm Street                      35 mph
Main Street  From Elm Street to 1,100 feet north of Country Road  45 mph
Third Street Commencing 800 feet west of Shimerda Street to Court 35 mph
             Street
Third Street From a point 400 feet east of OK Street to a point   45 mph
             1,200 feet east of OK Street
Third Street From Ames Street to 400 feet east of OK Street       35 mph
Third Street From Court Street to Ames Street                     25 mph
 
      (2)   In no instance shall a person drive a vehicle on a street at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-217.02)
(Ord. 746, passed 7-1-1997; Ord. 791, passed 11-2-1999; Ord. 801, passed 11-14-
2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,186 and 60-6,190
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking restrictions
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Specific prohibitions. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle, as
defined in this chapter, in the following locations unless otherwise provided
elsewhere in this traffic code or in the ordinances of the city.
Street Location Restriction
Street          Location                        Restriction
                On that portion of the south
                side of Hickory Street lying
                between Main and Shimerda
Hickory Street  Street and on that portion of   No parking at any time
                the east side of Shimerda
                Street lying between the
                corporate limits and Hickory
                Street
School Street   Lying between First Street and  No parking at any time
                Hickory Street
                On the east side of that        No parking between the hours of
School Street   portion of School Street lying  7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on
                between First Street and Third  Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
                Street                          Thursday and Friday
                On that portion of School       No parking between the hours of
School Street   Street lying between Third      7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on
                Street and Fourth Street        Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
                                                Thursday and Friday
                On the east side of that
School Street   portion of School Street lying  No parking at any time
                between Eighth Street and
                Fourth Street
                On that portion of Second
Second Street   Street lying between Main       No parking at any time
                Street and Wilson Street.
                On the north side of Seventh    No parking between the hours of
Seventh Street  Street lying between Main       7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
                Street and School Street
                On the south side of Seventh
Seventh Street  Street between the intersection No parking at any time
                of School and Seventh Streets
                and the city limits.
                On that portion of Shimerda
                Street between the area
                commencing with the
Shimerda Street intersection of County Road P,  No parking at any time
                on the north end thereof, and
                continuing to the intersection
                of Sixth Street on the south
                end thereof
                From the intersection of Third  No parking between the hours of
                Street and Main Street to the   2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.; nor
Third street    intersection of Third Street    for a period of time of more
                and School Street               than eight consecutive hours
                                                during any other time
                From the intersection of Wilson No parking between the hours of
                Street and Fourth Street to the 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.; nor
Wilson Street   intersection of Wilson Street   for a period of time of more
                and Second Street               than eight consecutive hours
                                                during any other time.
 
(Prior Code, § 5-605)
   (B)   Time limits.
 
Street        Location                         Restriction
              On either side of that portion
              of Harris Street lying north
              from the intersection of Third   No person shall park between the
              Street and Harris Street to the  hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00
Harris Street east and west alley which        p.m., Monday through Saturday,
              intersects Harris Street between for any time period in excess of
              the intersection of Third Street ten minutes
              and Harris Street and Second
              Street and Harris Street
                                               No person shall park a motor
                                               vehicle or permit it to stand
                                               for more than four hours
              On that portion of Third Street  continuously between the hours
Third Street  lying between Main Street and    of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.,
              School Street                    except that a motor vehicle may
                                               be parked on said portion of
                                               said streets for more than four
                                               hours continuously on Sundays
                                               and legal holidays
 
(Prior Code, § 5-617)
   (C)   Congested District; exception for pheasant season. No person shall
park or cause to be parked a vehicle between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m., during any day of the week in the Congested District as defined in §
70.01; provided, however, that during the open pheasant season for each year,
as the same is designated from time to time by the State Game and Parks
Commission, parking shall be allowed on the streets in the Congested District
on each day of said season beginning at 5:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 5-618)
(Ord. 629, passed 8-3-1993; Ord. 638, passed 2-1-1994; Ord. 640, passed 4-5-
1994; Ord. 860, passed 3-13-2007; Ord. 962, passed 3-8-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-680
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   LEISURE AND RECREATION
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: LEISURE AND RECREATION
Section
Library
   
90.01   Funding
   
90.02   Library Board; general powers and duties
   
90.03   Damaged and lost books
   
90.04   Cost of use
   
90.05   Annual report
   
90.06   Penalties; recovery; disposition
   
90.07   Improper book removal
LIBRARY
§ 90.01 FUNDING.
   (A)   (1)   If the City Council has established a public library free of
charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city or contracted for the use of
a public library already established, the Council may levy a tax of not more
than $0.105 on each $100 upon the taxable value of all the taxable property in
the city annually to be levied and collected in like manner as other taxes in
the city. The levy shall be subject to Neb. RS 77-3442 and 77-3443. The amount
collected from such levy shall be known as the Library Fund.
(Neb. RS 51-201)
      (2)   The Fund shall also include all gifts, grants, deeds of conveyance,
bequests or other valuable income-producing property and real estate from any
source for the purpose of endowing the public library.
   (B)   All taxes levied or collected and all funds donated or in any way
acquired for the erection, maintenance or support of the public library shall
be kept for the use of the library separate and apart from all other funds of
the city, shall be drawn upon and paid out by the City Treasurer upon vouchers
signed by the president of the Library Board and authenticated by the secretary
of the Board and shall not be used or disbursed for any other purpose or in any
other manner. The city may establish a public library sinking fund for major
capital expenditures.
(Neb. RS 51-209)
   (C)   Any money collected by the library shall be turned over at least
monthly by the librarian to the City Treasurer along with a report of the
sources of the revenue.
§ 90.02 LIBRARY BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library Board shall have the power to make and adopt such bylaws,
rules and regulations for its own guidance and for the government of the
library and reading room as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with Neb.
RS 51-201 through 51-219.
(Neb. RS 51-205)
   (B)   The Library Board shall have exclusive control of expenditures, of all
money collected or donated to the credit of the Library Fund, of the renting
and construction of any library building, and the supervision, care and custody
of the grounds, rooms or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that
purpose.
(Neb. RS 51-207)
   (C)   The Library Board may erect, lease or occupy an appropriate building
for the use of such a library, and appoint a suitable librarian and assistants,
fix the compensation of such appointees and remove such appointees at the
pleasure of the Board. The governing body of the city shall approve any
personnel administrative or compensation policy or procedure before
implementation of such policy or procedure by the Library Board.
   (D)   The Library Board may establish rules and regulations for the
government of the library as may be deemed necessary for its preservation and
to maintain its usefulness and efficiency. The Library Board may fix and
impose, by general rules, penalties and forfeitures for trespasses upon or
injury to the library grounds, rooms, books or other property, for failure to
return any book or for violation of any bylaw, rule or regulation. The Board
shall have and exercise such power as may be necessary to carry out the spirit
and intent of Neb. RS 51-201 through 51-219 in establishing and maintaining the
library and reading room.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
§ 90.03 DAMAGED AND LOST BOOKS.
   Any person who injures or fails to return any book taken from the library
shall forfeit and pay to the library not less than the value of the book in
addition to any replacement costs and penalty which the Library Board may
assess.
(Prior Code, § 3-805) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 51-211
§ 90.04 COST OF USE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, the library and reading room
shall be free of charge for the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject
always to such reasonable regulations as the Library Board may adopt to render
the library of the greatest use to the inhabitants. The Library Board may
exclude from the use of the library and reading rooms any person who willfully
violates or refuses to comply with rules and regulations established for the
government thereof.
(Neb. RS 51-212)
   (B)   The public library shall make its basic services available without
charge to all residents of the city. The Board may fix and impose reasonable
fees, not to exceed the library’s actual cost, for nonbasic services.
(Neb. RS 51-211)
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, free loan of circulating
print and nonprint materials from the local collection and general reference
and information services.
      NONBASIC SERVICES. Include, but are not limited to, use of:
         (a)   Photocopying equipment;
         (b)   Telephones, facsimile equipment and other telecommunications
equipment;
         (c)   Media equipment;
         (d)   Personal computers; and
         (e)   Videocassette recording and playing equipment.
(Neb. RS 51-201.01)
§ 90.05 ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Library Board shall, on or before the second Monday in February
each year, make a report to the City Council of the condition of its trust on
the last day of the prior fiscal year. The report shall show all money received
and credited or expended; the number of materials held, including books, video
and audio materials, software programs and materials in other formats; the
number of periodical subscriptions on record, including newspapers; the number
of materials added and the number withdrawn from the collection during the
year; the number of materials circulated during the year; and other statistics,
information and suggestions as the Library Board may deem of general interest
or as the City Council may require.
   (B)   The report shall be verified by affidavit of the president and
secretary of the Library Board.
(Neb. RS 51-213)
§ 90.06 PENALTIES; RECOVERY; DISPOSITION.
   Penalties imposed or accruing by any bylaw or regulation of the Library
Board and any court costs and attorney’s fees may be recovered in a civil
action before any court having jurisdiction, such action to be instituted in
the name of the Library Board. Money, other than any court costs and attorneys’
fees, collected in such actions shall be placed in the Treasury of the city to
the credit of the Library Fund. Attorneys’ fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the Treasury of the city and credited to the budget
of the City Attorney’s office.
(Neb. RS 51-214)
§ 90.07 IMPROPER BOOK REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the regulations made
by the Library Board to take a book from the public library without the consent
of the librarian or an authorized employee of the library. Any person removing
a book from the library without properly checking it out shall be deemed to be
guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
Health and Safety
   
91.01   Health regulations
   
91.02   Enforcement official
   
91.03   County Board of Health
   
91.04   State rules
Nuisances
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Abatement procedure
   
91.17   Adjoining land owners; intervention before trial
   
91.18   Dead or diseased trees
   
91.19   Weeds; litter; worthless vegetation
   
91.20   Maintenance of premises
   
91.21   Unlicensed or inoperable vehicles
   
91.22   Air pollution prohibited
   
91.23   Water pollution prohibited
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.35   Jurisdiction
   
91.36   Right of entry
   
91.37   Abatement of nuisance
 
   
91.99   Penalty
HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 91.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and safety of the residents of the
city, the Board of Health shall, from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative thereto and shall make such inspections, prescribe such
penalties and make such reports as may be necessary toward that purpose.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Police Chief or other official designated by the City Council, as
the quarantine officer, shall be the chief health officer of the city.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty to notify the City Council and the Board
of Health of health nuisances within the city and its zoning jurisdiction.
Statutory reference:
   Quarantine officer, see Neb. RS 17-121
§ 91.03 COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to work closely with the County
Health Board in protecting the health and welfare of the residents of the city.
§ 91.04 STATE RULES.
   (A)   The Rules and Regulations Relating to Public Health, from the State
Department of Health, are hereby incorporated by reference when the same are
applicable to the municipality, in their present form and as they may hereafter
be amended.
   (B)   One copy of each of the pamphlets is filed at the office of the
Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any reasonable
time.
(Prior Code, § 4-103)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132 and 19-902
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   (A)   General definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Consists in doing any unlawful act, or omitting to perform a
duty, or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
         (b)   Offends decency;
         (c)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (d)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any stream, public park, parkway, square, street
or highway in the municipality;
         (e)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
         (f)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 4-301)
   (B)   Specific definition. The maintaining, using, placing, depositing,
leaving or permitting of any of the following specific acts, omissions, places,
conditions and things are hereby declared to be NUISANCES:
      (1)   Any odorous, putrid, unsound or unwholesome grain, meat, hides,
skins, feathers, vegetable matter or the whole or any part of any dead animal,
fish or fowl;
      (2)   Privies, vaults, cesspools, dumps, pits or like places which are
not securely protected from flies or rats, or which are foul or malodorous;
      (3)   Filthy, littered or trash-covered cellars, house-yards, barnyards,
stable-yards, factory-yards, mill yards, vacant areas in rear of stores,
granaries, vacant lots, houses, buildings or premises;
      (4)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies and the elements, or which is kept or handled in violation of any
ordinance of the municipality;
      (5)   Liquid household waste, human excreta, garbage, butcher’s trimmings
and offal, parts of fish or any waste vegetable or animal matter in any
quantity; provided, nothing herein contained shall prevent the temporary
retention of waste in receptacles in a manner provided by the health officer of
the municipality, nor the dumping of non-putrefying waste in a place and manner
approved by the health officer;
      (6)   Tin cans, bottles, glass, cans, ashes, small pieces of scrap iron,
wire metal articles, bric-a-brac, broken stone or cement, broken crockery,
broken glass, broken plaster and all trash or abandoned material, unless the
same be kept in covered bins or galvanized iron receptacles;
      (7)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of barrels, boxes, crates,
packing crates, mattresses, bedding, excelsior, packing hay, straw or other
packing material, lumber not neatly piled, scrap iron, tin or other metal not
neatly piled, or any other waste materials when any of said articles or
materials create a condition in which flies or rats may breed or multiply, or
which may be a fire danger or which are so unsightly as to depreciate property
values in the vicinity thereof;
      (8)   Any unsightly building, billboard or other structure, or any old,
abandoned or partially destroyed building or structure, or any building or
structure commenced and left unfinished, which said buildings, billboards or
other structures are either a fire hazard, a menace to the public health or
safety or are so unsightly as to depreciate the value of property in the
vicinity thereof;
      (9)   All places used or maintained as junk yards, or dumping grounds, or
for the wrecking and dissembling of machinery of any kind, or for the storing
or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or abandoned machinery of any kind, or of any
of the parts thereof, or for the storing or leaving of any machinery or
equipment used by contractors or builders or by other persons, which said
places are kept or maintained so as to essentially interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property by others, or which are so unsightly
as to tend to depreciate property values in the vicinity thereof;
      (10)   Stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
ground;
      (11)   Stockyards, granaries, mills, pig pens, cattle pens, chicken pens
or any other place, building or enclosure, in which animals or fowls of any
kind are confined or on which are stored tankage or any other animal or
vegetable matter, or on which any animal or vegetable matter, including grain,
is being processed, when said places in which said animals are confined or said
premises on which said vegetable or animal matter is located, are maintained
and kept in such a manner that foul and noxious odors are permitted to emanate
therefrom, to the annoyance of inhabitants of the municipality, or are
maintained and kept in such a manner as to be injurious to the public health;
and/or
      (12)   All other things specifically designated as nuisances elsewhere in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-302)
(Ord. 518, passed 7-7-1987; Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.16 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee of
real estate in the municipality to keep such real estate free of public
nuisances. Upon determination by the governing body of the municipality that
said owner, occupant, lessee or mortgagee has failed to keep such real estate
free of public nuisances, notice to abate and remove such nuisance, and notice
of the right to a hearing before the governing body and the manner in which it
may be requested shall be given to said owner or occupant, or said owner’s or
occupant’s duly authorized agent, by personal service or certified mail. Such
notice shall describe the condition as found by the governing body and state
that said condition has been declared a public nuisance, and that the condition
must be remedied at once. Within ten days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of real estate does not request a hearing or fails to
comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the municipality shall
have such work done and may levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work
upon the real estate so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed.
   (B)   If said owner or occupant requests in writing a hearing with the
governing body, the governing body shall fix a time and place at which a
hearing will be held. Notice of the hearing shall be given by personal service
or certified mail and require the owner or occupant to appear before the
governing body to show cause why such condition should not be found to be a
public nuisance and remedied. Such notice shall be given not less than seven,
nor more than 14 days before the time of the hearing. Upon the date fixed for
the hearing, and pursuant to the notice, the governing body shall hear all
objections made by the owner or occupant and shall review all evidence before
the governing body. If, after consideration of all the evidence, the governing
body shall find that the condition is a public nuisance, it shall by resolution
order and direct the owner or occupant to remedy the public nuisance at once.
Should the owner or occupant refuse or neglect to promptly comply with the
order of the governing body, the governing body shall proceed to cause the
abatement of the described public nuisance and may levy and assess the costs
and expenses of the work upon the real estate so benefited in the same manner
as other special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed.
(Prior Code, § 4-303) (Ord. 557, passed 5-2-1989; Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007;
Ord. 868, passed 11-11-2008; Ord. 939, passed 7-10-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.17 ADJOINING LAND OWNERS; INTERVENTION BEFORE TRIAL.
   In cases of appeal from an action of the governing body condemning real
property as a nuisance or as dangerous under the police powers of the
municipality, the owners of the adjoining property may intervene in the action
at any time before trial.
(Prior Code, § 4-304) (Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-710
§ 91.18 DEAD OR DISEASED TREES.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees within the right-of-way of streets
within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   It is hereby declared a nuisance for a property owner to permit, allow
or maintain any dead or diseased trees on private property within the corporate
limits of the municipality. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this section, the municipality shall have the authority to enter upon private
property to inspect the trees thereon.
   (C)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance and notice of the right to a
hearing and the manner in which it may be requested shall be given to each
owner or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the nuisance, the
municipality may have such work done and may levy and assess all or any portion
of the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or piece of ground so
benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for improvements are levied
or assessed.
(Prior Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 703, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-555, 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 91.19 WEEDS; LITTER; WORTHLESS VEGETATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LITTER. Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes; wood,
plaster, cement brick or stone building rubble; grass, leaves and worthless
vegetation; abandoned and junked automobiles, automobile bodies, chassis and
parts and offal and dead animals.
      NOXIOUS WEEDS. Bindweed, puncture vine, leafy spurge, Canada thistle,
perennial pepper grass, Russian knapweed, Johnson grass, nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass, perennial sow thistle, horse nettle, bun thistle,
buckthorn, hemp plant and ragweed. NOXIOUS WEEDS also shall mean and include
any weed designated and listed in regulations promulgated by the State Director
of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 4-402)
   (B)   Declaration of nuisance. All litter and noxious weeds and any grass or
worthless vegetation 12 inches or more in height are hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-403)
   (C)   Litter and worthless vegetation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s boundaries to fail or refuse to
keep such lot or ground free of litter or noxious weeds or grass or worthless
vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more, to prevent litter
from being carried or deposited by the elements beyond such lot or ground or to
allow litter to remain on such lot or ground, other than in proper receptacles
provided therefor.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s boundaries to permit, allow or
maintain thereon any growth of noxious weeds or grass or worthless vegetation
which has reached a height of 12 inches or more.
(Prior Code, § 4-404)
   (D)   Litter and worthless vegetation, duty of owner.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground located within the city’s
boundaries to remove and clear all litter from such lot or ground, together
with that area between the property line and the curbed, paved or traveled
roadway line.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part of
any lot or ground located within the city’s boundaries to cut or clear from
such lot or ground, together with that area between the property line and the
curbed, paved or traveled roadway line, noxious weeds and grass or worthless
vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more. Such noxious weeds
and/or grass or worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or
more shall be cut as close to ground level as reasonably possible and shall be
maintained so that at any time the same does not exceed 12 inches or more above
the ground. The cuttings shall be raked and removed from such lot or ground.
(Prior Code, § 4-405)
   (E)   Dropping or depositing of litter or worthless vegetation. It shall be
unlawful for any person, while transporting or hauling, or causing to be
transported or hauled, litter or noxious weeds or grass or worthless vegetation
which has reached a height of 12 inches or more, to throw, drop or deposit or
cause or allow to be thrown, dropped or deposited on any lot or ground located
within the city’s boundaries, any such litter or noxious weeds or grass or
worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more.
(Prior Code, § 4-406)
   (F)   Worthless vegetation, cost of reimbursement for violation. In the
event that any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or person in possession, charge
or control of any lot or ground, or any part of any lot or ground located
within the city’s boundaries fails to cut noxious weeds or grass or worthless
vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more or fails to remove
litter or noxious weeds or grass or worthless vegetation which has reached a
height of 12 inches or more, or causes litter or noxious weeds or grass or
worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more and who
has received notice to abate and remove such nuisance from the city, has not
done so during the period stated and has not requested a hearing, the city may
have such work done and may levy and assess the cost and expenses of the work
done upon the lot or piece of ground so benefited in the same manner as other
special taxes for improvements are levied and assessed.
(Prior Code, § 4-407)
(Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Generally. All areas and parts of the premises upon which any dwelling
or dwelling units are located and all areas adjacent thereto and a part of the
premises shall be maintained and kept in a reasonable and proper manner. This
shall include: cutting of grass and seeds; removal of dead trees and brush;
removal of abandoned and junked automobiles, automobile bodies, chassis and
parts; removal of inoperable machines and appliances; removal of lumber piles
and building materials not being used in actual construction; and removal of
tin cans, broken glass, broken furniture, boxes, crates and other debris,
rubbish, junk and garbage.
(Prior Code, § 4-409)
   (B)   Action by city. In the event any owner, agent, occupant, tenant or
other person in possession, charge or control of any lot or ground, or any part
of any lot or ground located within the city’s boundaries shall fail to comply
with the notice provided for in §
133.06, the city may cause such litter or noxious weeds or grass or worthless
vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches or more to be cut and/or
removed and assess the cost thereof upon the lot or ground, in the same manner
as other special taxes for improvement are levied and assessed; and, at all
times thereafter until new growth of the following year, the city shall have
the right, without providing further notice to such owner, agent, occupant,
tenant or person in possession, charge or control of such lot or ground, to
continue cutting and/or removing from such lot or ground all litter or noxious
weeds or grass or worthless vegetation which has reached a height of 12 inches
or more.
(Prior Code, § 4-410)
(Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 91.21 UNLICENSED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the municipality,
other than municipal property, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or
otherwise, shall allow any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than 30 days. No unlicensed
vehicle shall be permitted to remain on any private or public property for any
length of time; provided, that this section shall not apply to a vehicle in an
enclosed building; to a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise,
operated in a lawful place and manner, when such vehicle is necessary to the
lawful operation of the business; to a vehicle which has been purchased and the
30-day licensing period, as provided by state law, has not yet expired; or to a
vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the municipality. Any vehicle allowed to remain on property
in violation of this section shall constitute a nuisance and shall be abated,
and any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 4-411) (Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 910, passed 4-8-2014)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 AIR POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit the
emission of smoke from any source that is injurious or offensive to the
residents of the municipality in the judgment of the City Council or Mayor. Air
shall be considered to be polluted when the discharge into the open of dust,
fumes, gases, mist, odors, smoke or any combination thereof is of such
character and in a quantity which to any group of persons interferes with their
health, repose or safety, or causes severe annoyance or discomfort or is
offensive and objectionable to normal persons and causes injury to real and
personal property of any kind. The standards for air pollution established or
adopted by the state shall be presumptive evidence as to when the air is deemed
to be polluted under this section. It is hereby unlawful for any such person,
firm or corporation to permit or cause the escape of the aforesaid nuisances
and the escape of the dust, fumes, gases, mists, odors and smoke is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and shall be summarily abated upon written notice by
the City Council or Mayor to the violator. Such abatement may be in addition to
the penalty for air pollution in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 4-412) (Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 868, passed 11-11-2008)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 91.23 WATER POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to obstruct
or impede without legal authority any river or collection of water, or to
corrupt and render unwholesome or impure any watercourse, stream or other
water.
   (B)   The standards for water quality established or adopted by the state
shall be presumptive evidence as to when the water is deemed to be polluted
under this section. Such a corruption of the water in or about the municipality
shall constitute a nuisance and shall be summarily abated upon written notice
to the violator by the municipality. The abatement may be in addition to the
penalty for water pollution.
(Prior Code, § 4-413) (Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 868, passed 11-11-2008)
Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.35 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council of the municipality are directed to enforce
this municipal code against all nuisances.
   (B)   The jurisdiction of the Mayor, City Council and the court shall extend
to, and the territorial application of this chapter shall include, all
territory adjacent to the limits of the municipality within one mile thereof
and all territory within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 91.36 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   For the purpose of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the director of each of the city’s departments of public works, any
officer or agent duly designated by the Mayor and/or any other officer,
employee or agent of the city under his or her supervision and/or health
officer of the City/County Health Department shall have the right to enter any
premises located within the boundaries of the city or within one mile thereof
at any reasonable time.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed in any manner whatsoever to
restrict or affect the city’s obligation to comply with all appropriate and
necessary procedures required by law, including this code.
(Prior Code, § 4-408) (Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 91.37 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   In addition to actions taken by the municipality to enforce this
municipal code against all nuisances as previously set forth herein, whenever a
nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the municipality may proceed by a
suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists, the
court may, together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 863, passed 9-11-2007)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 4-501) (Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Definitions
   
92.002   Running at large; tethering
   
92.003   Wild animals
   
92.004   Killing, poisoning, and injuring
   
92.005   Enclosures
   
92.006   Abandonment, neglect, and mistreatment
   
92.007   Equines; bovines; prohibited acts
   
92.008   Impoundment
   
92.009   Officer’s compensation
   
92.010   Interference with police
   
92.011   Number restricted
   
92.012   Pitting prohibited
   
92.013   Livestock banned within city
   
92.014   Fowl; written permission
   
92.015   Damaging property of others
   
92.016   Unlawful use of a dog or cat
Rabies
   
92.025   Definitions
   
92.026   Vaccination required; cost; exemptions
   
92.027   Post-incident management
   
92.028   Domestic or hybrid animal or livestock; post-exposure management
   
92.029   Animal pound; impoundment; release; fees
   
92.030   Proclamation of danger
   
92.031   Enforcement
Dogs
   
92.045   License and tax required; exemption; tags
   
92.046   Collar or harness required
   
92.047   Removal of collar, harness, or tags
   
92.048   Liability of owner
   
92.049   Barking and chasing; complaints
   
92.050   Dangerous dogs
   
92.051   Female in season
   
92.052   Fighting
   
92.053   Impoundment
   
92.054   Restraint; sufficient enclosures; tethering
Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Animals
   
92.070   Judicially excluded animals
   
92.071   Impoundment during enforcement proceedings
   
92.072   Spaying or neutering; microchip identification and license required
   
92.073   Warning signs required
   
92.074   Confinement of dangerous animals
   
92.075   Proof of insurance for dangerous animals, potentially dangerous
animals and pit bulls
   
92.076   Impoundment
   
92.077   Destruction of dangerous animals at large
   
92.078   Determination of potentially dangerous animal
   
92.079   Pit bulls; leash and muzzle required
   
92.080   Registry of dangerous animal
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom other than an uncaptured
wild creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person authorized by law or employed or
appointed for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter or any
other law or ordinance relating to the licensing, control, seizure, or
impoundment of animals.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors, or has charge,
custody, or control of an animal or permits an animal to habitually remain or
be lodged or fed within his or her house, store, building, enclosure, yard,
lot, grounds, or premises. OWNER does not include any veterinarian or kennel
operator temporarily maintaining on his or her premises an animal owned by
another person for not more than 30 days.
   RUN AT LARGE. Not being under the actual control of the owner by means of:
      (1)   A leash, cord, chain, or other suitable means of physical restraint
which is securely fastened or tethered in a manner sufficient to keep the
animal on the premises where tethered;
      (2)   A leash, cord, chain, or other suitable means of physical restraint
of six feet or less in length physically held by the owner;
      (3)   Being confined within cage, receptacle, enclosed vehicle, fenced
enclosure, or shelter; or
      (4)   Being within the real property limits of the owner and in the
owner’s presence and under direct and effective voice or other control.
§ 92.002 RUNNING AT LARGE; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any cow, hog, horse, mule,
sheep, goat, dog, chicken, turkey, goose, or other animal, except a cat, to
permit the animal to run at large at any time on any of the public ways and
property or the property of another in the city or to be tethered or staked out
in such a manner so as to allow the animal to reach or pass into any public way
or property or any property of another. The owner of a cat may permit the cat
to run at large within the corporate limits, subject to any restrictions or
prohibitions otherwise imposed by the City Council.
   (B)   Any animal found running at large or tethered or staked out in
violation of this section is a public nuisance and may be impounded or
destroyed as provided in this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to permit anyone to own an animal in the corporate limits of the city
that is prohibited by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
   Fine for permitting collarless dog to run at large, see Neb. RS 54-607
§ 92.003 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animals may be kept within the corporate limits except wild animals
kept for exhibition purposes by circuses and educational institutions.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.004 KILLING, POISONING, AND INJURING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, administer, or cause to be
administered poison of any sort to, or in any manner injure, maim, or destroy,
or attempt to injure, maim, or destroy, any animal or to place any poison or
poisoned food where it is accessible to an animal, except that:
   (A)   This section shall not apply to any law enforcement officer or animal
control officer acting within his or her power and duty;
   (B)   This section shall not apply if the animal is vicious, dangerous, or
showing characteristics of rabies and cannot be captured without danger to the
persons attempting to effect a capture of the animal; and
   (C)   Any owner of a dog that he or she wishes to be destroyed may place the
dog in an animal pound or shelter or with a licensed veterinarian to be
humanely destroyed and disposed of according to the provisions in this chapter
or other provisions of law.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.005 ENCLOSURES.
   All pens, cages, sheds, yards, or any other area or enclosure for the
confinement of animals not specifically barred within the corporate limits
shall be kept in a clean and orderly manner so as not to become a menace or
nuisance to the neighborhood in which the enclosure is located.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.006 ABANDONMENT, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDON. To leave any animal in one’s care, whether as owner or
custodian, for any length of time without making effective provision for its
food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary for the animal’s health.
      ANIMAL. Any vertebrate member of the animal kingdom. ANIMAL does not
include an uncaptured wild creature or a livestock animal as defined in this
section.
      BOVINE. A cow, an ox, or a bison.
      CRUELLY MISTREAT. To knowingly and intentionally kill, maim, disfigure,
torture, beat, mutilate, burn, scald, or otherwise inflict harm upon any
animal.
      CRUELLY NEGLECT. To fail to provide any animal in one’s care, whether as
owner or custodian, with food, water, or other care as is reasonably necessary
for the animal’s health.
      HUMANE KILLING. The destruction of an animal by a method which causes the
animal a minimum of pain and suffering.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any member of the State Patrol, any county or
deputy sheriff, any member of the police force of the city or any other city or
village, or any other public official authorized by the city or any other city
or village to enforce state or local animal control laws, rules, regulations,
or ordinances. LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER also includes a special investigator
appointed as a deputy state sheriff as authorized pursuant to Neb. RS 81-201
while acting within the authority of the Director of Agriculture.
      LIVESTOCK ANIMAL. Any bovine, equine, swine, sheep, goat, domesticated
cervine animal, ratite bird, or poultry.
      OWNER OR CUSTODIAN. Any person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring, or
knowingly permitting an animal to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by such person.
      POLICE ANIMAL. A horse or dog owned or controlled by the state or any
county, city, or village for the purpose of assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of his or her official enforcement duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1008)
   (B) Enforcement powers; immunity.
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who has reason to believe that an animal
has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or cruelly mistreated may seek
a warrant authorizing entry upon private property to inspect, care for, or
impound the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of a law enforcement officer who has reason to
believe that an animal has been abandoned or is being cruelly neglected or
cruelly mistreated to make prompt investigation of such violation. A law
enforcement officer may, in lieu of making an arrest, issue a citation to the
owner or custodian as prescribed in Neb. RS 29-422 through 29-429.
      (3)   Any law enforcement officer acting under this section shall not be
liable for damage to property if such damage is not the result of the officer’s
negligence.
(Neb. RS 28-1012)
   (C) Violation. 
      (1)   A person who intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly abandons,
cruelly neglects, or cruelly mistreats an animal is guilty of an offense.
      (2)   A person commits harassment of a police animal if he or she
knowingly and intentionally teases or harasses a police animal in order to
distract, agitate, or harm the police animal for the purpose of preventing such
animal from performing its legitimate official duties.
(Neb. RS 28-1009)
Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit cruelty to animals, see Neb. RS 17-138
   Exemptions, see Neb. RS 28-1013
   Serious illness or injury to animal; death of animal; felony, see Neb. RS
28-1008 and 28-1009
§ 92.007 EQUINES; BOVINES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip or cause to fall, or lasso or
rope the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment,
sport, practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping or causing to fall, or lassoing or roping
the legs of, any equine by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-911)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall intentionally trip, cause to fall, or drag any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest.
      (2)   The intentional tripping, causing to fall, or dragging of any
bovine by its tail by any means for the purpose of entertainment, sport,
practice, or contest shall not be considered a commonly accepted practice
occurring in conjunction with sanctioned rodeos, animal racing, or pulling
contests.
(Neb. RS 54-912)
Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Livestock Animal Welfare Act, see Neb. RS 54-907 through 54-912
§ 92.008 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the impoundment of animals to which §
92.029 does not apply.
   (B)   Any animal found in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
be impounded. All impounded domestic animals shall be given proper care,
treatment, and maintenance.
   (C)   Notice of the impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound and at the office of the
City Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of
impoundment. Notice of the impoundment of any licensed dog shall also be mailed
to the owner listed on the license application by regular United States mail to
the address listed on the application.
   (D)   Each impounded domestic animal shall be kept and maintained at the
pound for a period of not less than five days after public notice has been
given unless reclaimed earlier by the owner. The owner may reclaim the animal
during the period of impoundment by payment of any general impoundment and
daily board fees set by resolution of the City Council and on file in the
office of the City Clerk, except that in addition, an unusual or other
nondomesticated or wild animal shall only be released upon condition that the
owner shall immediately remove the animal from the city or destroy it. A
diseased animal may be released upon a determination that the health and safely
of the public is no longer threatened. The owner of any released animal shall
be required to comply with any licensing and rabies vaccination requirements
applicable to such animal within 72 hours after release.
   (E)   If the animal is unclaimed at the end of the required waiting period
after public notice has been given, the animal control officer may destroy and
dispose of the animal in a humane manner in accordance with the applicable
rules and regulations, except that if, in the judgment of the officer, a
suitable home can be found for the animal, the animal shall be turned over to
the person who can provide such home and the new owner shall be required to pay
all fees and meet all applicable licensing and vaccinating requirements. The
city shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog or any other animal
impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period after giving notice. The owner of the animal shall remain liable for
payment of the fees established by the City Council.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish pens and pounds, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
   Authority to impound and sell animals, see Neb. RS 17-526 and 17-547
§ 92.009 OFFICER’S COMPENSATION.
   If the City Council so provides, any official appointed or designated to
destroy and dispose of animals under the provisions of this chapter shall be
paid, in addition to his or her regular salary or other compensation, the sum
set by the Council for each animal so destroyed and disposed of.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to compensate keeper of pound, see Neb. RS 17-548
§ 92.010 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, or interfere with any
police officer or animal control officer who is performing any duty enjoined
upon that person by the provisions of this chapter or to break open, or in any
manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking open, of the
animal shelter, any ambulance wagon, or any other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of animals to the shelter.
§ 92.011 NUMBER RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to own, keep or harbor at any time more than three dogs
and/or five cats over the age of four months per residential or dwelling unit
in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-107) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.012 PITTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEARBAITING. The pitting of any animal against a bear.
      COCKFIGHTING. The pitting of a fowl against another fowl.
      DOGFIGHTING. The pitting of a dog against another dog.
      PITTING. Bringing animals together in combat.
(Prior Code, § 6-205)
   (B)   Pitting prohibited. No person shall knowingly promote, engage in or be
employed at dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or pitting an animal against
another. Nor shall any person knowingly receive money for the admission of
another person to a place kept for such purpose. Nor shall any person knowingly
own, use, train, sell or possess an animal for the purpose of pitting. Nor
shall any person knowingly permit any act as described in this section to occur
on any premises owned or controlled by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 6-206)
   (C)   Spectators prohibited. No person shall knowingly and willingly be
present at and witness as a spectator dogfighting, cockfighting, bearbaiting or
the pitting of an animal against another as prohibited in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 6-207)
(Ord. 543, passed 10-4-1988; Ord. 588, passed 6-4-1991) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1004 and 28-1005
§ 92.013 LIVESTOCK BANNED WITHIN CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within the corporate
limits any horse, mule, sheep, cow, goat, swine or other livestock.
(Prior Code, § 6-202) (Ord. 795, passed 3-7-2000) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-123 and 17-526
§ 92.014 FOWL; WRITTEN PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on his, her or their private
property poultry, chickens, turkeys, geese or other fowls unless and until they
have received the written consent of the owners or lessees of the property
immediately adjoining the private property where such fowls are to be kept, and
all other property owners within 150 feet of the place where such animals are
to be kept, which consent shall be filed at the office of the Municipal Clerk
and shall be subject to revocation by any of the owners or lessees at any time.
(Prior Code, § 6-204) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.015 DAMAGING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog or cat to allow or permit his or
her dog or cat to damage the property of others or to cause bodily injury. If
the owner is adjudged guilty of a violation of this section, the court may, in
addition to the penalty provided for the violation of this code, order such
disposition or destruction of the offending dog or cat as may seem reasonable
and proper.
(Prior Code, § 6-122) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.016 UNLAWFUL USE OF A DOG OR CAT.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to make use of a dog or cat in the
commission or furtherance of any criminal act in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 6-119) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
RABIES
§ 92.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. A cat which is a household pet.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health and Human Services.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog of the species Canis familiaris, cat of the species
Felis domesticus, or ferret of the species Mustela putorius furo.
   HYBRID ANIMAL. Any animal which is the product of the breeding of a domestic
dog with a nondomestic canine species.
   OWN. To possess, keep, harbor, or have control of, charge of, or custody of
a domestic or hybrid animal. This term does not apply to domestic or hybrid
animals owned by other persons which are temporarily maintained on the premises
of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of not more than 30 days.
   OWNER. Any person possessing, keeping, harboring, or having charge or
control of any domestic or hybrid animal or permitting any domestic or hybrid
animal to habitually be or remain on or be lodged or fed within the person’s
house, yard, or premises. This term does not apply to veterinarians or kennel
operators temporarily maintaining on their premises domestic or hybrid animals
owned by other persons for a period of not more than 30 days.
   RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY. City health and law enforcement officials who
shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter relating to the vaccination and
impoundment of domestic or hybrid animals. Such public officials shall not be
responsible for any accident or disease of a domestic or hybrid animal
resulting from the enforcement of such sections.
   VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES. The inoculation of a domestic or hybrid animal
with a United States Department of Agriculture-licensed rabies vaccine
administered consistent with its labeling. The vaccination shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine in this state
or licensed in the state where the vaccination was administered.
(Neb. RS 71-4401)
§ 92.026 VACCINATION REQUIRED; COST; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Every domestic animal in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies
with a licensed vaccine and revaccinated at intervals specified by rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department. Young domestic animals
shall be initially vaccinated at the age specified in the rules and
regulations. Unvaccinated domestic animals acquired or moved into the city
shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or arrival unless under the
age for initial vaccination.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, every hybrid animal
in the city shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be revaccinated at
intervals specified by the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the
Department. A young hybrid animal shall be initially vaccinated at the age
specified in such rules and regulations. An unvaccinated hybrid animal acquired
or moved into the city shall be vaccinated within 30 days after purchase or
arrival unless under the age for initial vaccination.
      (2)   The rabies vaccine used to vaccinate a hybrid animal pursuant to
this section shall be sold only to licensed veterinarians.
      (3)   An owner of a hybrid animal in the city prior to the date of
development of a licensed vaccine determined scientifically to be reliable in
preventing rabies in a hybrid animal shall have one year after such date to
comply with this section.
(Neb. RS 71-4402)
   (C)   The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the
domestic or hybrid animal.
(Neb. RS 71-4404)
   (D)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter, with respect to vaccination,
shall not apply to any domestic or hybrid animal owned by a person temporarily
remaining within the city for less than 30 days, to any domestic or hybrid
animal brought into the city for field trial or show purposes, or to any
domestic or hybrid animal brought into the city for hunting purposes for a
period of less than 30 days. Such domestic or hybrid animals shall be kept
under strict supervision of the owner. It shall be unlawful to bring any
domestic or hybrid animal into the city which does not comply with the animal
health laws and import rules and regulations of the state which are applicable
to domestic or hybrid animals.
      (2)   Domestic or hybrid animals assigned to a research institution or a
similar facility shall be exempt from this subchapter.
(Neb. RS 71-4405)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.027 POST-INCIDENT MANAGEMENT.
   Any domestic animal which has bitten any person or caused an abrasion of the
skin of any person shall be subjected to post-incident management as provided
in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4406) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.028 DOMESTIC OR HYBRID ANIMAL OR LIVESTOCK; POST-EXPOSURE MANAGEMENT.
   Domestic or hybrid animals or livestock known to have been exposed to a
confirmed or suspected rabid animal shall be subjected to post-exposure
management as provided in the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by
the Department.
(Neb. RS 71-4407) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.029 ANIMAL POUND; IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The rabies control authority may authorize an animal pound or
pounds or may enter into a cooperative agreement with a licensed veterinarian
for the establishment and operation of a pound.
      (2)   Any dog or hybrid of the family Canidae found outside the owner’s
premises whose owner does not possess a valid certificate of rabies vaccination
and valid rabies vaccination tag for the dog or hybrid of the family Canidae
shall be impounded. The rabies control authority may require the impoundment of
domestic or hybrid animals other than dogs or hybrids of the family Canidae.
All impounded domestic or hybrid animals shall be given proper care, treatment,
and maintenance. Each impounded domestic or hybrid animal shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a period of not less than 72 hours unless reclaimed
earlier by the owner.
      (3)   Notice of the impoundment of all animals, including any significant
marks of identification, shall be posted at the pound as public notification of
impoundment. Any unvaccinated domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed by its
owner during the period of impoundment by payment of prescribed pound fees and
by complying with the rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within
72 hours of release. Any vaccinated domestic or hybrid animal impounded because
its owner has not presented a valid certificate of rabies vaccination and a
valid rabies vaccination tag for the domestic or hybrid animal may be reclaimed
by its owner by furnishing proof of rabies vaccination and payment of all
impoundment fees prior to release.
      (4)   At the expiration of impoundment, a domestic or hybrid animal may
be claimed by payment of the established pound fees and by compliance with the
rabies vaccination requirement of this subchapter within 72 hours of release.
If the domestic or hybrid animal is unclaimed at the end of five days, the
authorities may dispose of the domestic or hybrid animal in accordance with
applicable laws or rules and regulations.
(Neb. RS 71-4408)
   (B)   Impoundment fees shall be paid by the owner. Fees for impoundment at
public facilities shall be established by the rabies control authority.
(Neb. RS 71-4411)
§ 92.030 PROCLAMATION OF DANGER.
   Whenever, in its opinion, the danger to the public safety from a species of
rabid animals is great or imminent, the City Council shall issue a proclamation
ordering all owners of any such species to muzzle the animal or to confine it
for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days from the date of the
proclamation or until the danger is passed. The animal may be harbored by any
good and sufficient means in a house, garage, or yard on the premises on which
the owner may reside. Upon issuance of a proclamation, all owners of any such
species shall muzzle or confine the animal as provided in this section.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.031 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When the owner of any domestic or hybrid animal or other animal fails
or refuses to comply with §§
92.027 or
92.028, the rabies control authority shall obtain an order for seizure of the
animal pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 29, Article 8.
(Neb. RS 71-4410)
   (B)   In the city, all ordinances, codes, or rules and regulations
concerning the control of rabies or the vaccination of domestic or hybrid
animals against rabies shall be enforced by the city health and law enforcement
officials or those other officers with regulatory authority as specified by the
City Council.
(Neb. RS 71-4412)
DOGS
§ 92.045 LICENSE AND TAX REQUIRED; EXEMPTION; TAGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a dog over the age of six months within the city shall,
within 30 days after acquisition of the dog, acquire a license for the dog
annually by or before May 1 of each year. Licenses shall be issued by the City
Clerk upon payment of a license tax in the amount established by the City
Council, plus the $1.25 fee required under Neb. RS 54-603(3). It shall be
unlawful for the owner of a dog to wrongfully and knowingly license an unspayed
female dog as a male or spayed female dog if the Council has established
different license taxes for such dogs.
   (B)   The tax shall be delinquent from and after May 10. The owner of any
dog brought into or harbored within the corporate limits subsequent to May 1 of
any year shall be liable for payment of the dog tax, and such tax shall be
delinquent if not paid within ten days thereafter. The license shall not be
transferable, and no refund will be allowed in case of death, sale, or other
disposition of the licensed dog.
   (C)   The owner shall state, at the time the application is made and upon
printed forms provided for such purpose, his or her name and address and the
name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned by him or her. A certificate of
rabies vaccination, effective for the ensuing year of the license, shall be
presented when application for a license is made, and no license or tag shall
be issued until the certificate is shown.
   (D)   Every service animal shall be licensed as required by this section,
but no license tax shall be charged. Upon the retirement or discontinuance of
the animal as a service animal, the owner of the animal shall be liable for the
payment of the required license tax.
(Neb. RS 54-603)
   (E)   (1)   Upon payment of the license tax, the Clerk shall issue to the
owner of the dog a license certificate and a metallic tag, which shall be valid
until April 30 following such licensing. The Clerk shall issue tags of a
suitable design that are different in appearance each year.
      (2)   The metallic tag and the rabies tag shall be properly attached to
the collar or harness of the dog. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog
to permit or allow such dog to wear any licensing identification other than the
metallic tag issued by the Clerk.
      (3)   If a license tag is lost, upon satisfactory evidence that the
original tag was issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall issue a duplicate or new tag for the balance of the year for which
the license tax has been paid and shall charge and collect a fee established by
the City Council for each duplicate or new tag so issued.
   (F)   All license taxes, fees, and other collections shall be credited to
the General Fund of the city, except as otherwise provided by Neb. RS 54-603.
Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose license tax, require rabies certificate, and destroy
unlicensed dogs, see
    Neb. RS 17-526, 54-603, and 71-4412
§ 92.046 COLLAR OR HARNESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog to securely place upon
the neck of the dog a good and sufficient collar with a metallic plate thereon.
The plate shall be plainly inscribed with the name of the owner.
(Neb. RS 54-605)
   (B)   The owner of a dog may use a harness instead of a collar as long as
the harness meets all other requirements of division (A) above.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.047 REMOVAL OF COLLAR, HARNESS, OR TAGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or cause to be removed, the
collar, harness, metallic license tag, or rabies tag from any dog without the
consent of the owner of the dog.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.048 LIABILITY OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to injure or destroy any
real or personal property of any description belonging to another person. The
owner of the dog, in addition to the usual judgment upon conviction, may be
made to be liable to the person injured in an amount equal to the value of the
damage sustained.
Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against injuries or annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
   Statutory liability for damages, see Neb. RS 54-601, 54-602, and 54-606
§ 92.049 BARKING AND CHASING; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner to allow a dog to annoy or disturb
any neighborhood or person by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, or
yelping or to habitually bark at or chase pedestrians, drivers, or owners of
horses or vehicles while they are on any public sidewalks, streets, or alleys
in the city.
   (B)   Upon the written complaint of two or more affected persons from
different households, filed within any 30-day period with the City Clerk or
animal control officer, that any dog owned by the person named in the complaint
is an annoyance or disturbance, or otherwise violates the provisions of this
section, the city police or animal control officer shall investigate the
complaint and, if in his or her opinion the situation warrants, notify the
owner to silence and restrain the dog.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to apply to any
city animal shelter.
Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to guard against annoyances, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 92.050 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. An entity authorized to enforce the animal
control laws of the city, and includes any local law enforcement agency or
other agency designated by the city to enforce the animal control laws of the
city.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, appointed, or authorized
by an animal control authority for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of
this section or any other law or ordinance relating to the licensing of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals, and
includes any state or local law enforcement or other employee whose duties, in
whole or in part, include assignments that involve the seizure and impoundment
of any animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, according to the records of the animal control
authority:
            1.   Has killed a human being;
            2.   Has inflicted injury on a human being that requires medical
treatment;
            3.   Has killed a domestic animal without provocation; or
            4.   Has been previously determined to be a potentially dangerous
dog by an animal control authority, the owner has received notice of such
determination from an animal control authority or an animal control officer,
and the dog inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require medical
treatment, injures a domestic animal, or threatens the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (b)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the individual
was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog at the time of the injury or
has, in the past, been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or
assaulted the dog.
         (c)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the injury,
damage, or threat was sustained by an individual who, at the time, was
committing a willful trespass as defined in Neb. RS 20-203, 28-520, or 28-521,
was committing any other tort upon the property of the owner of the dog, was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or has, in the past, been observed
or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
         (d)   A dog shall not be defined as a DANGEROUS DOG if the dog is a
police animal as defined in Neb. RS 28-1008.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A cat, a dog, or livestock. LIVESTOCK includes buffalo,
deer, antelope, fowl, and any other animal in any zoo, wildlife park, refuge,
wildlife area, or nature center intended to be on exhibit.
      MEDICAL TREATMENT. Treatment administered by a physician or other
licensed health care professional that results in sutures or surgery or
treatment for one or more broken bones.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, political
subdivision, or department possessing, harboring, keeping, or having control or
custody of a dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog that, when unprovoked:
            1.   Inflicts an injury on a human being that does not require
medical treatment; or
            2.   Injures a domestic animal; or
            3.   Chases or approaches a person upon streets, sidewalks, or any
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack.
         (b)   Any specific dog with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack when unprovoked, to cause injury, or to threaten the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
(Neb. RS 54-617)
   (B)   (1)   A dangerous dog that has been declared as such shall be spayed
or neutered and implanted with a microchip identification number by a licensed
veterinarian within 30 days after such declaration. The cost of both procedures
is the responsibility of the owner of the dangerous dog. Written proof of both
procedures and the microchip identification number shall be provided to the
animal control authority after the procedures are completed.
      (2)   No owner of a dangerous dog shall permit the dog to go beyond the
property of the owner unless the dog is restrained securely by a chain or
leash.
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) below or for a reasonable
veterinary purpose, no owner of a dangerous dog shall transport such dog or
permit such dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this
state.
      (4)   An owner of a dangerous dog may transport such dog or permit such
dog to be transported to another county, city, or village in this state for the
purpose of permanent relocation of the owner if the owner has obtained written
permission prior to such relocation from the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides and from the county, city,
or village in which the owner will reside. Each animal control authority may
grant such permission based upon a reasonable evaluation of both the owner and
the dog, including if the owner has complied with the laws of this state and of
the county, city, or village in which he or she resides with regard to
dangerous dogs after the dog was declared dangerous. An animal control
authority shall not grant permission under this section if the county, city, or
village has an ordinance or resolution prohibiting the relocation of dangerous
dogs. After the permanent relocation, the animal control authority of the
county, city, or village in which the owner resides shall monitor the owner and
such dog for a period of at least 30 days, but not to exceed 90 days, to ensure
the owner’s compliance with the laws of this state and of such county, city, or
village with regard to dangerous dogs. Nothing in this division (B)(4) shall
permit the rescindment of the declaration of dangerous dog.
(Neb. RS 54-618)
   (C)   (1)   No person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall own, keep, or harbor, or allow to be in or on any premises
occupied by him, her, or it or under his, her, or its charge or control, any
dangerous dog without such dog being confined so as to protect the public from
injury.
      (2)   (a)   While unattended on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog
shall be securely confined, in a humane manner, indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitably designed to prevent the entry of
young children and to prevent the dog from escaping. The pen or structure shall
have secure sides and a secure top. If the pen or structure has no bottom
secured to the sides, the sides shall be embedded into the ground at least one
foot. The pen or structure shall also protect the dog from the elements. The
pen or structure shall be at least ten feet from any property line of the
owner.
         (b)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall post warning signs on the
property where the dog is kept that are clearly visible from all areas of
public access and that inform persons that a dangerous dog is on the property.
Each warning sign shall be not less than ten inches by 12 inches and shall
contain the words “warning” and “dangerous animal” in high-contrast lettering
at least three inches high on a black background.
(Neb. RS 54-619)
   (D)   (1)   Any dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated by an animal
control officer if the owner is in violation of this section. The owner shall
be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred by the animal control
authority for the care of a dangerous dog confiscated by an animal control
officer or for the destruction of any dangerous dog if the action by the animal
control authority is pursuant to law and if the owner violated this section.
(Neb. RS 54-620)
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty, a court may order the animal
control authority to dispose of a dangerous dog in an expeditious and humane
manner.
(Neb. RS 54-621)
   (E)   If a dangerous dog of an owner with a prior conviction under this
section attacks or bites a human being or domestic animal, in addition to any
other penalty, the dangerous dog shall be immediately confiscated by an animal
control authority, placed in quarantine for the proper length of time, and
thereafter destroyed in an expeditious and humane manner.
(Neb. RS 54-623)
Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Owner felony liability; serious bodily injury second offense, see Neb. RS
54-622.01
   Prior conviction; ownership of dangerous dog prohibited for ten years after,
see Neb. RS 54-623
§ 92.051 FEMALE IN SEASON.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a female
dog to permit her to run at large within the municipality while in season. Any
such female dog found running at large in violation of this section shall be
declared to be a public nuisance and as such may be impounded or killed
according to the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-113) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 92.052 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by agreement or otherwise, to set dogs
to fighting, or by any gesture or word to encourage the same to fight.
(Prior Code, § 6-114) Penalty, see §
92.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-526
§ 92.053 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of animal control officers to capture, secure and
remove in a humane manner to the animal shelter any dog violating any of the
provisions of this subchapter. The dogs so impounded shall be treated in a
humane manner and shall be provided with a sufficient supply of food and fresh
water each day.
   (B)   Each impounded dog shall be kept and maintained at the pound for a
period of not less than five days after public notice has been given unless
reclaimed earlier by the owner. Notice of impoundment of all animals, including
any significant marks or identifications, shall be posted at the office of the
Municipal Clerk within 24 hours after impoundment as public notification of
such impoundment.
   (C)   Any dog may be reclaimed by its owner during the period of impoundment
by payment of a general impoundment fee and daily board fee as set by
resolution of the governing body and on file in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. The owner shall then be required to comply with the licensing and rabies
vaccination requirements prior to release. If the dog is not claimed at the end
of required waiting period after public notice has been given the municipality
may dispose of the dog in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations
pertaining to the same; provided, that if, in the judgment of the municipality,
a suitable home can be found for any such dog within the municipality, the dog
shall be turned over to that person and the new owner shall then be required to
pay all fees and meet all licensing and vaccinating requirements provided in
this subchapter.
   (D)   The municipality shall acquire legal title to any unlicensed dog
impounded in the animal shelter for a period longer than the required waiting
period after giving notice. All dogs shall be destroyed and buried in the
summary and humane manner as prescribed by the Board of Health unless a
suitable home can be found for such dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-117) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-548 and 71-4408
§ 92.054 RESTRAINT; SUFFICIENT ENCLOSURES; TETHERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog within the city to fail
to keep his or her dog securely restrained or otherwise confined in or upon his
or her premises in an enclosure sufficient to contain the dog.
   (B)   Each animal shall be separately tethered. No animal shall be tethered
outdoors in excess of 15 minutes at any one time unless an owner, custodian or
person responsible for the animal, 19 years of age or older, is present in the
same yard in which the animal is tethered. The tether shall be at least five
times the length of the animal’s body as measured from the tip of the nose to
the base of the tail, terminates at each end with a swivel, weighs no more than
one-eighth of the animal’s weight, is free of tangles, prevents strangulation
or injury and prevents the animal from being within 15 feet from the edge of
any public street or sidewalk. Provided, that if the tethering method is a
trolley system at least 15 feet in length and less than seven feet above
ground, and meets the foregoing tether requirements, the animal may be tethered
outdoors for up to one hour with an owner, custodian or person responsible for
the animal, 19 years of age or older, is in the same yard in which the animal
is tethered.
(Prior Code, § 6-121) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 92.070 JUDICIALLY EXCLUDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any animal into the city, which
has, in another jurisdiction, been judicially determined to be a dangerous,
potentially dangerous, vicious, a nuisance or a threat to the health or safety
of human beings.
(Prior Code, § 6-123) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.071 IMPOUNDMENT DURING ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   If there is reasonable cause shown that the offending animal
under §
92.015 may constitute a hazard to the safety of the public at large during the
pendency of any action commenced thereunder, the court may order such animal or
animals impounded pending the outcome of such proceedings. Any person who owns,
keeps, harbors or maintains or controls any animal involved in such impoundment
shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, veterinary expenses, boarding
or other expenses, necessitated by the impoundment of the animal for the
protection of the public and other expenses as may be required.
      (2)   The Authority may require such person to pay, prior to expiration
of ten days after the date of impoundment, an amount sufficient to pay all
reasonable expenses incurred in caring and providing for the animal, including
estimated medical care, for 30 days, inclusive of the date on which the animal
was impounded. If such payment is not made prior to expiration of this ten-day
period, the animal shall become the property of the Authority to be disposed of
as the Authority deems appropriate. Such payment shall be required for each
succeeding 30-day period. If any such payment is not made prior to the end of
each succeeding 30-day period, the animal shall become the property of the
Authority to be disposed of as the Authority deems appropriate. The amount of
the payment shall be determined by the Authority based on the current rate for
board at the animal shelter and the condition of the animal after examination
of the animal by a veterinarian acting for the Authority. Any such payment
received by the Authority in excess of the amount determined by the Authority
to be due for the board and care of the animal shall be refunded by the
Authority upon expiration of the order of impoundment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the owner or custodian is found
not guilty of animal neglect or cruelty, the owner or custodian shall only be
required to pay the veterinary expenses and one-half of the board and care fees
determined by the Authority to be due.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if it is determined by a veterinarian
acting for the Authority that such animal is diseased or disabled beyond any
useful purpose, the animal shall immediately become that property of the
Authority to be humanely disposed of as the Authority deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 6-124) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.072 SPAYING OR NEUTERING; MICROCHIP IDENTIFICATION AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any animal judicially determined to be dangerous or administratively
determined to be potentially dangerous shall be spayed or neutered and
implanted with microchip identification by a licensed veterinarian at the
owner’s expense, no less than 30 days after such determination is entered, with
written proof of spaying or neutering and the microchip identification number
being provided to the Animal Control Authority within 72 hours of the procedure
being completed. In addition, such dangerous or potentially dangerous animal
shall be required to be licensed as a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
within 30 days of the determination.
(Prior Code, § 6-125) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.073 WARNING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any property wherein a dangerous animal is kept, harbored or confined
shall be posted with warning signs visible from all areas of public access.
   (B)   The warning signs must:
      (1)   Be no less than ten inches by 12 inches in size;
      (2)   Contain the words “Warning; Dangerous Animal” in high contrast
lettering on a black background in English; and
      (3)   Lettering must be no less than three inches high.
(Prior Code, § 6-126) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.074 CONFINEMENT OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person owning, harboring or having the care of a dangerous animal
shall permit such animal to go unconfined on the premises of such person. For
the purpose of this section, a dangerous animal is UNCONFINED if such animal is
not:
      (1)   Confined indoors; or
      (2)   Confined outdoors in an enclosed and locked pen or structure upon
the premises of the person described above; provided, that the existence of
such a pen or structure is permitted by zoning regulations. Maintenance of a
dangerous animal is not permitted in areas where such structures or pens are
not authorized by zoning regulations.
   (B)   The pen must be constructed with chain link fencing for all four sides
and the top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides must be imbedded in the ground no less than one foot or have a concrete
pad for the bottom. The pen or structure shall be set back at least ten feet
from the nearest property line.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring or having the
care of a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal to permit such animal to go
beyond the property of such person unless the animal is under the control of a
person 19 years of age or older and restrained securely by a harness and leash
no longer than six feet and properly muzzled to reasonably prevent the animal
from biting.
(Prior Code, § 6-127) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.075 PROOF OF INSURANCE FOR DANGEROUS ANIMALS, POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS
ANIMALS AND PIT BULLS.
   Any animal that has been determined to be a dangerous animal by a court
determination, any animal administratively determined to be a potentially
dangerous animal and any pit bull, as defined in §
92.079, that is required to be licensed under this chapter cannot be licensed
unless the person having custody, ownership or control of such dog or other
animal first presents written proof of public liability insurance of not less
than $100,000 to the Animal Control Authority. Such insurance shall be
maintained in effect for the period such dangerous or potentially dangerous
animal is so designated; provided, that insurance for a pit bull, as defined in
§
92.079, shall be maintained for the life of the pit bull.
(Prior Code, § 6-128) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.076 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any animal that has been determined to be a dangerous animal or a
potentially dangerous animal that, without provocation, bites a human being may
be immediately impounded by an animal control officer if in violation of this
chapter. The owner shall be responsible for the reasonable costs incurred for
the care of such impounded dangerous animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-129) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.077 DESTRUCTION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   In the event that an animal that has been determined to be dangerous,
as defined in §
92.078, is found at large and unattended upon public property, park property or
a public right-of-way, or upon the property of someone other than its owner,
thereby creating a hazard to person or property, such animal may, in the
discretion of the Animal Control Authority or authorized designee, be destroyed
if it cannot be confined or captured.
   (B)   The city shall be under no duty to attempt the confinement or capture
of a dangerous animal found at large, nor shall it have a duty to notify the
owner of such animal prior to its destruction.
(Prior Code, § 6-130) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.078 DETERMINATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   The Animal Control Authority shall initiate administrative proceedings
to determine an animal to be a potentially dangerous animal, if it meets the
definition of potentially dangerous animal under §
92.050, by service of a notice, in writing, upon such animal’s owner either by
certified and regular mail to the owner’s last known address or personally. The
notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner whose animal is subject to such
determination;
      (2)   The name, description and license number of the animal who is
subject to such determination;
      (3)   A description of the facts which form the basis of such
determination;
      (4)   A summary of the effects of such determination, including the
requirements for §§
92.072 and
92.075, and state that noncompliance will result in an owner being declared a
reckless owner by the Animal Control Authority;
      (5)   The date of proposed entry of the determination which shall be not
less than ten days after the date of mailing or personal service of the notice;
and
      (6)   Notification of the availability of an appeal if the owner objects
to such determination, within ten days of the date of mailing or personal
service of the notice.
   (B)   An owner whose animal is determined to be a potentially dangerous
animal shall be required to comply with §
92.073 immediately and §§
92.072 and
92.075 within 30 days of the date of entry of the determination order, unless a
notice of appeal of the order is filed with the Animal Control Authority.
   (C)   An appeal of such determination order shall be heard by a hearing
officer designated by the Animal Control Authority within ten days of the date
of the filing of the notice of appeal and shall provide an opportunity for the
owner to appear and offer evidence to dispute the determination order. The
filing fee for each notice of appeal shall be $100. A decision to affirm or
reverse such order shall be entered by the hearing officer within ten days of
the date of the hearing.
   (D)   An owner may request termination of the determination order if there
are no incidents of the type specified in §
92.050 for at least two years following the date of the determination order.
Such request for termination shall be heard by a hearing officer designated by
the Animal Control Authority within ten days of the date of the filing of the
request for termination and shall provide an opportunity for the owner to
appear and offer evidence to support termination of the determination order.
The owner must provide documented evidence that the animal’s behavior has
changed due to environment, health, age, training, neutering or other relevant
factor. The filing fee for each request for termination shall be $200. A
decision to continue or terminate such determination order shall be entered by
the hearing officer within ten days of the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 6-131) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.079 PIT BULLS; LEASH AND MUZZLE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring or having the
care of a pit bull to permit such animal to be outdoors unless confined in a
securely fenced yard or unless the animal is under the control of a person 19
years of age or older, restrained securely by a harness and leash no longer
than six feet and properly muzzled to reasonably prevent the animal from
biting; provided, that the harness and muzzle requirements apply only to those
pit bulls six months of age or older.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PIT BULL shall be defined as any dog
that is an American Pit Bull Terrier, American Staffordshire Terrier,
Staffordshire Bull Terrier, Dogo Argentina, Presa Canario, Cane Corso, American
Bulldog, or any dog displaying the majority of physical traits of any one or
more of the above breeds (more so than any other breed), or any dog exhibiting
those distinguishing characteristics which substantially conform to the
standards established by the American Kennel Club or United Kennel Club for any
of the above breeds. The A.K.C. and U.K.C. standards for the above breeds are
on file in the office of the Animal Control Authority.
   (C)   Provided that a pit bull which is a participant in an organized dog
event approved by the Authority shall not be required to be leashed and muzzled
while outdoors and being shown or otherwise actively competing in such event.
(Prior Code, § 6-132) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.080 REGISTRY OF DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   The owner of any animal that has been determined to be dangerous as
defined in §
92.050, or previously determined to be dangerous under this chapter shall
register such animal with the Authority within 30 days of such determination or
within 30 days of enactment of this section if previously determined to be
dangerous. Such registration shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name of the current owner of the animal;
      (2)   The address where the animal is harbored;
      (3)   A description of the animal, including name, breed, sex and
coloring;
      (4)   The current license number for the animal; and
      (5)   The carrier and policy number for public liability insurance as
required in §
92.075.
   (B)   At least once per calendar year, the Authority shall publish in the
local newspaper a list of animals on the above registry, providing the name of
the owner, the address where the animal is harbored and a description of the
animal, including name and breed.
   (C)   Any person who has registered an animal pursuant to this section shall
have a continuing obligation to provide updated registration information to the
Authority and shall, within 30 days of the sale or transfer of such animal,
provide to the Authority the date of such sale or transfer, the name of the new
owner and the address where the animal will be harbored.
(Prior Code, § 6-133) (Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
92.012 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $100 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-208)
   (C)   (1)   As set out in §
92.050, any owner whose dangerous dog inflicts on a human being a serious
bodily injury as defined in Neb. RS 28-109 is guilty of a Class I misdemeanor
for the first offense, whether or not the same dangerous dog is involved.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation of division (B)(1) above that the
dangerous dog was, at the time of the infliction of the serious bodily injury,
in the custody of or under the direct control of a person other than the owner
or the owner’s immediate family.
(Neb. RS 54-622.01)
   (D)   (1)   In addition to the sanctions which may be imposed by law, any
person who fails to keep his or her dog securely restrained or otherwise
confined as required by §
92.054 shall pay the following penalties:
         (a)   For the first violation, a penalty in the sum of $100;
         (b)   For the second violation within 24 months of the first
violation, a penalty in the sum of $250; and
         (c)   For the third violation within 24 months of the first violation,
and each subsequent violation thereafter, a penalty in the sum of $500.
      (2)   Such penalties shall be paid to the Animal Control Authority and
shall be used solely for enforcement activities.
(Prior Code, § 6-121)
(Ord. 543, passed 10-4-1988; Ord. 895, passed 6-12-2012)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fires
   
93.01   Preservation of property
   
93.02   Disorderly spectator
   
93.03   Equipment
   
93.04   Interference
   
93.05   Obstructions
   
93.06   Assistance
   
93.07   Driving over hose
   
93.08   Traffic
   
93.09   False alarm
   
93.10   Pedestrians
Fire Prevention
   
93.25   Life Safety Code
   
93.26   Fire Code enforcement
   
93.27   Lawful entry
   
93.28   Violation notice
   
93.29   Fire limits defined
   
93.30   Fire limits building permit
   
93.31   Permitted repairs
   
93.32   Ironclads prohibited
   
93.33   Removal or repair required
   
93.34   Open burning ban; waiver
Fireworks
   
93.45   Permitted fireworks
   
93.46   Throwing firecrackers
   
93.47   Sale
   
93.48   Definitions
Hazardous Materials and Explosives
   
93.60   Petroleum gas
   
93.61   Poisonous or flammable gas
   
93.62   Storage registration
   
93.63   Explosive material; blasting permits
   
93.64   Explosive material; transportation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIRES
§ 93.01 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or any officer in charge of the Fire Department, shall
have the authority and power to cause the removal of property whenever it shall
become necessary for the preservation of more valuable property, the protection
of human life or to prevent the spreading of fire to adjoining property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may direct the municipal firefighters to remove any
building, structure or fence for the purpose of checking the progress of any
fire.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority to blow up, or cause to be
blown up, with explosives, any building or structure during the progress of a
fire for the purpose of checking the progress of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-101)
§ 93.02 DISORDERLY SPECTATOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person during the time of a fire and for
a period of 36 hours after its extinguishment to hinder, resist or refuse to
obey the Municipal Fire Chief, or to act in a noisy or disorderly manner.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall have the power and
authority during such time to arrest or command any such person to assist them
in the performance of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-102) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 93.03 EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except the Fire Chief and the members of
the Municipal Fire Department to molest, destroy, handle or in any other way to
interfere with the use and storage of any of the fire trucks and other
apparatus belonging to the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-103) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 93.04 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to hinder or obstruct the
Municipal Fire Chief or the members of the Fire Department in the performance
of their duty.
(Prior Code, § 7-104) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 93.05 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the use of a fire hydrant or
have or place any material within 15 feet of the hydrant. Any vehicle or
material found as an obstruction may be immediately removed by the Fire Chief
or any member of the Fire Department, at the risk, cost and expense of the
owner or claimant.
(Prior Code, § 7-105) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,166
§ 93.06 ASSISTANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, after the command of the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief, to aid in extinguishing a fire or to assist in
the removal and protection of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-106) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
§ 93.07 DRIVING OVER HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over unprotected hose of a Fire Department when
laid down on any highway or private road or driveway, in use or to be used at
any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official
in command.
(Neb. RS 60-6,184) (Prior Code, § 7-107) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 TRAFFIC.
   Every vehicle already stationary when the fire alarm shall have been sounded
must remain so for a period of five minutes after the sounding of the fire
alarm. No vehicle, except by the specific direction of the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief, shall follow, approach or park closer than 500 feet to
any fire vehicle, or to any fire hydrant to which a hose is connected. Nothing
herein shall be construed to apply to vehicles carrying doctors, members of the
Fire Department or emergency vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 7-108)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,183
§ 93.09 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally and without good and
reasonable cause raise any false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-109) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to enter or remain in any street
after a fire alarm shall have sounded until the fire trucks shall have
completely passed.
(Prior Code, § 7-110) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-908
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.25 LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   Incorporated by reference into this code are the NFPA 101, Life Safety Code,
with Nebraska Amendments (2019). This Code shall have the same force and effect
as if set out verbatim herein. One copy of the Life Safety Code is on file with
the Municipal Clerk and shall be available for public inspection at any
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 7-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132, 19-902, 19-922 and 81-502
§ 93.26 FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all municipal officials to enforce the incorporated
Fire Code provisions and all infractions shall be immediately brought to the
attention of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7-202)
§ 93.27 LAWFUL ENTRY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure, except the interiors of private dwellings, to allow the Fire Chief
to inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as necessary the structure for
the purpose of ascertaining and enumerating all conditions therein that are
likely to cause fire, or any other violations of the provisions of the
municipal ordinances affecting the hazard of fire.
(Prior Code, § 7-203)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-512
§ 93.28 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee or occupant of any building or
structure that was lawfully inspected as hereinbefore prescribed, and who
receives written or verbal notice of a violation of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances to correct the condition that violates the ordinance
or ordinances within five days from the date of receipt of such notice.
(Prior Code, § 7-204)
§ 93.29 FIRE LIMITS DEFINED.
   The following described territory in the municipality shall be and
constitute the fire limits: Commencing at the northeast corner of Lot 201,
thence west to the center of Block 225, known as Hotel Square, thence south in
a straight line to the alley dividing Hotel Square east and west, thence west
to the northwest corner of Lot 232, thence south to the southwest corner of Lot
263, thence east to the southeast corner of Lot 258, thence south to the
southeast corner of Lot 269, thence east to the southeast corner of Lot 299, at
the intersection of Fourth and Main Street, thence north to the place of
beginning, all in the original town, now City of Wilber, Saline County,
Nebraska.
(Prior Code, § 7-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 93.30 FIRE LIMITS BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the moving or construction of any building in the fire limits,
application must be made to the governing body. For the purpose of this
section, CONSTRUCTION shall include the enlarging or alteration of any building
in the fire limits. Such application shall be furnished by the Municipal Clerk
and shall require such information as the governing body deems necessary to
determine whether or not to grant a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 93.31 PERMITTED REPAIRS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to repair, alter or add to any building
in the fire limits where the repair is less than 50% of the building unless the
person shall first submit an application to the Municipal Clerk to make such
repairs, alterations or to add to any building and shall state on the
application that the material used will be non-combustible and approved by the
Fire Chief. Repairs in the form of patching and other minor repairs shall not
require a permit. In the event that the repairs, alteration or addition is to
involve more than 50% of the building, the owner shall be required to apply for
a new building permit which shall state that the building, when completed,
shall be fireproof and made of noncombustible materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-207) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 93.32 IRONCLADS PROHIBITED.
   All buildings, sheds and structures known as ironclads which are constructed
of wood and covered with sheet iron or tin attached to the frame shall be
considered and deemed to be constructed of combustible materials. Any future
construction of an ironclad building shall hereafter be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-208) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 93.33 REMOVAL OR REPAIR REQUIRED.
   In the event that a building within the fire limits becomes damaged by fire,
wind, flood, vandalism or any other cause, to the extent of less than 50% of
its value, exclusive of the foundation, it shall be the duty of the owner,
lessee or occupant to remove or repair the building in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a
building to stand in such damaged or decayed condition. Any such building shall
be removed or repaired within 30 days after receiving notice to do so by the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 7-209) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-550
§ 93.34 OPEN BURNING BAN; WAIVER.
   (A)   There shall be a statewide open burning ban on all bonfires, outdoor
rubbish fires and fires for the purpose of clearing land.       
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Municipal Fire Department or his or her designee
may waive an open burning ban under division (A) above for an area under his or
her jurisdiction by issuing an open burning permit to a person requesting
permission to conduct open burning. The permit issued by the Fire Chief or his
or her designee to a person desiring to conduct open burning shall be in
writing, signed by the Fire Chief or his or her designee and on a form provided
by the State Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Municipal Fire Chief or his or her designee may waive the open
burning ban in his or her jurisdiction when conditions are acceptable to the
Chief or his or her designee. Anyone burning in such jurisdiction when the open
burning ban has been waived shall notify the Fire Department of his or her
intention to burn.
   (D)   The Municipal Fire Chief may adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations listing the conditions acceptable for issuing a permit to conduct
open burning under division (B) above.
   (E)   The Municipal Fire Department may charge a fee, not to exceed $10, for
each such permit issued. This fee shall be remitted to the governing body for
inclusion in the general funds allocated to the Fire Department. Such funds
shall not reduce the tax requirements for the Fire Department. No such fee
shall be collected from any state or political subdivision to which such a
permit is issued to conduct open burning under division (B) above in the course
of such state’s or political subdivision’s official duties.
(Prior Code, § 7-211) (Ord. 706, passed 10-3-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-520.01
FIREWORKS
§ 93.45 PERMITTED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ignite or cause to be exploded
fireworks or firecrackers of any description whatsoever, except sparklers,
Vesuvius fountains, spray fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet
type color aerial shells without explosive charges for the purpose of making a
noise, color wheels, lady fingers, not exceeding seven-eighths of an inch in
length or one-eighths of an inch in diameter, and which do not contain more
than 50 milligrams each in weight of explosive material.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any fireworks to be
used for purpose of public exhibitions or display under authorization of the
City Council or to fireworks furnished for agricultural purposes pursuant to
written authorization from the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 7-404) (Ord. 544, passed 10-4-1988) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556, 28-1241, 28-1244 and 28-1245
§ 93.46 THROWING FIRECRACKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any firecracker, or any object
which explodes upon contact with another object; from or into a motor vehicle;
onto any street, highway or sidewalk; at or near any person; into any building;
or into or at any group of persons.
(Prior Code, § 7-405) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556 and 28-1242
§ 93.47 SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, hold for sale or offer for sale
as distributor, jobber or retailer any fireworks without first obtaining a
license from the State Fire Marshal for that calendar year. Licensed vendors
shall only sell fireworks which have been approved by the State Fire Marshal
and such permissible fireworks may be sold at retail only between June 24 and
July 5 and between December 28 and January 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 7-406) (Ord. 886, passed 10-12-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1246 through 28-1250
§ 93.48 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks
at wholesale in this state to any person engaged in the business of making
sales or fireworks either as a jobber or as a retailer or both.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation and which
meets the definition of common or special fireworks set forth by the United
States Department of Transportation in 49 C.F.R.
      (1)   COMMON FIREWORKS. Any small firework device designed to produce
visible effects by combustion and which is required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations of the United
States Consumer Product Safety Commission set forth in 16 C.F.R., small devices
designed to produce audible effects such as whistling devices, ground devices
containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition and aerial devices
and firecrackers containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
Class C explosives as classified by the United States Department of
Transportation shall be considered COMMON FIREWORKS.
      (2)   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Materials manufactured exclusively for use in
public exhibitions or displays of fireworks designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. Includes, but is not
limited to, firecrackers containing more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of explosive
composition and other display pieces which exceed the limits for classification
as common fireworks. Class B explosives as classified by the United States
Department of Transportation shall be considered DISPLAY FIREWORKS. DISPLAY
FIREWORKS shall be considered an explosive as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213 and
shall be subject to Neb. RS 28-1213 through 28-1239, except that display
fireworks may be purchased, received and discharged by the holder of an
approved display permit issued pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1239.01.
      (3)   PERMITTED FIREWORKS. Only sparklers, Vesuvius fountains, spray
fountains, torches, color fire cones, star and comet type color aerial shells
without explosive charge for the purpose of making a noise, lady fingers, not
to exceed seven-eighths of an inch in length or one-eighths of an inch in
diameter, total explosive composition not to exceed 50 milligrams in weight,
color wheels and any other fireworks approved under Neb. RS 28-1247.
   JOBBER. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks at
wholesale to any other person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the business of making sales of fireworks at
retail to consumers or to persons other than distributors or jobbers.
   SALE. Includes barter, exchange or gift or offer therefor and each such
transaction made by any person, whether as principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
(Prior Code, § 7-407) (Ord. 545, passed 10-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1241
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND EXPLOSIVES
§ 93.60 PETROLEUM GAS.
   Any person desiring to store or keep in their possession liquefied petroleum
gas shall place the containers outside of buildings on nonflammable docks or
platforms and no such container shall at any time be stored within a building
of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 7-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 93.61 POISONOUS OR FLAMMABLE GAS.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to store or keep in the
municipality for any period of time any form of poisonous or flammable gas or
liquefied petroleum gas or add to, enlarge or replace any facility used for the
storage of such gases, must first get permission from the governing body. The
governing body shall require the name of the gas, the place of storage and the
amount of gas stored. If permission is granted, the governing body shall
prescribe such rules, regulations and precautionary actions as they may deem
necessary. Permit requirements for the initial construction or location of
storage facilities shall not apply to those facilities in existence on the
effective date of this section; provided, that any such present use that is
discontinued for a period of 60 days shall not be revived without a permit. The
provisions of this section shall be controlling throughout the municipality and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 7-302)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549
§ 93.62 STORAGE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Poisonous and flammable gases and explosives; storage registration.
Any person, firm or corporation storing or keeping for any period of time
dynamite, gunpowder, nitroglycerine or other high explosives or any form of
poisonous or flammable gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the
municipality shall register such information with the Municipal Clerk within
ten days after such gases or explosives are brought into the municipality. The
Clerk shall provide such information to the Municipal Fire Chief and to the
governing body. Transfer of gases or explosives to another individual within
the municipality shall require the individual receiving the gases or explosives
to register the transfer and the new location of the gases or explosives with
the Municipal Clerk. Also, moving gases or explosives to a new location by the
owner shall require registration of that fact to the Municipal Clerk. This
section shall not apply to the storage of five gallons or less of gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 7-303)
   (B)   Explosives; storage registration; requirements.
      (1)   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to
Neb. RS 28-1233(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time
explosive materials, as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, shall register such
information with the Municipal Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage. The
transfer of explosive materials to another person within the municipality shall
require the person receiving the explosive materials to register the transfer
and the new location of the explosive materials with the Municipal Clerk. The
transfer of explosive materials to a new location by the owner shall require
registration of the new location with the Municipal Clerk.
      (2)   All explosive materials shall be stored in a proper receptacle made
of cement, metal or stone and be closed at all times, except when in actual
use. Such receptacles shall not be located in any room where there are flames
or flammable materials. The area surrounding storage facilities shall be kept
clear of rubbish, brush, dry grass or trees not less than 25 feet in all
directions. Any other combustible materials shall be kept a distance of not
less than 50 feet from outdoor storage facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-401)
   (C)   Poisonous and flammable gases and explosives; storage registration. In
addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS 28-1233
(3), any person desiring to store or keep for any period of time explosive
materials as defined in Neb. RS 28-1213, or any form of poisonous or flammable
gases or liquefied petroleum gases within the municipality shall register such
information with the Municipal Clerk 24 hours prior to such storage. The
transfer of such explosives or gases to another person within the municipality
shall require the person receiving such explosives or gases to register the
transfer and the new location of the explosives and gases with the Municipal
Clerk. The transfer of explosive materials and gases to a new location by the
owner shall require registration of the new location with the Municipal Clerk.
This section shall not apply to the storage of five gallons or less of
gasoline.
(Prior Code, § 7-408)
(Ord. 674, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 676, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229 and 28-1233
§ 93.63 EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL; BLASTING PERMITS.
   In addition to notifying the Municipal Fire Department pursuant to Neb. RS
28-1233(3), any person desiring to discharge explosive materials, as defined in
Neb. RS 28-1213, within the municipality, shall apply for and secure a permit
from the governing body 24 hours prior to such discharge, and shall discharge
such explosive materials in conformance with the conditions specified in the
permit. In no case shall any person perform blasting operations unless
operating under the direct supervision of a person in possession of a valid
user’s permit issued by the State Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 7-402) (Ord. 567, passed 12-5-1989; Ord. 675, passed 10-4-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549, 17-556, 28-1229 and 28-1233
§ 93.64 EXPLOSIVE MATERIAL; TRANSPORTATION.
   Any person wishing to transport high explosives in the municipality shall
first acquire a permit from the municipality and shall take such precautions
and use such route as he or she may prescribe. Nothing herein shall be
construed to apply to the municipal police or any of the armed services of the
United States. No vehicle transporting explosives shall make an unscheduled
stop for longer than five minutes within the municipality, and, in the event of
mechanical failure, immediate notice of such breakdown shall be given the
Police Chief who shall then prescribe such precautions as may be necessary to
protect the residents of the municipality and a reasonable time for removal of
the vehicle from the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-403) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-549 and 28-1235
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 7-501) (Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATION TAXES
      
111.   ITINERANT SALES
      
112.   JUNK DEALERS
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
114.   AMUSEMENTS
      
115.   RAILROAD COMPANIES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATION TAXES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Collection dates
   
110.02   Certificates
   
110.03   Failure to pay
   
110.04   Amounts
Telecommunications Services
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Tax on services
   
110.17   Gross receipts; exceptions
   
110.18   Payment of tax and effective date
   
110.19   Statement of gross receipts
   
110.20   Use of funds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 COLLECTION DATES.
   Unless provided otherwise or levied daily, any occupation taxes imposed by
the City Council shall be due and payable on May 1 of each year, except that
any occupation taxes collected from Class C liquor licensees shall be due and
payable on November 1 of each year. Upon payment of an occupation tax by any
person to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall give a receipt, properly dated,
specifying the person paying the tax and the amount paid. Any revenue collected
shall be deposited into the General Fund by the City Treasurer except as
otherwise specifically provided. The Treasurer shall keep an accurate account
of all revenue turned over to him or her. All forms and receipts herein
mentioned shall be issued in duplicate. One copy shall then be kept by each
party in the transaction.
§ 110.02 CERTIFICATES.
   The receipt issued after the payment of any occupation tax shall be the
occupation tax certificate. The certificate shall specify the amount of the tax
and the name of the person and business that paid the tax. The occupation tax
certificate shall then be displayed in a prominent place or carried in such a
way as to be easily accessible while business is being conducted.
§ 110.03 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If any person, company or corporation fails or neglects to pay the
occupation taxes as provided in this chapter on the day they become due and
payable, the city shall then proceed by civil suit to collect the amount due.
All delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month until
paid.
§ 110.04 AMOUNTS.
   For the purpose of raising revenue, an occupation tax is hereby levied on
the following businesses:
 
Retailer of alcoholic liquors holding a Class C License $250
Retailer of alcoholic liquors holding a Class D License $150
Retailer of alcoholic liquors holding a Class I License $200
Retailer of beer only holding a Class A License         $100
Retailer of beer only holding a Class B License         $100
 
(Prior Code, § 10-1101) (Ord. 559, passed 5-2-1989; Ord. 642, passed 8-2-1994;
Ord. 781, passed 4-1-1999; Ord. 784, passed 6-1-1999; Ord. 856, passed 6-13-
2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-525
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC LOCAL EXCHANGE SERVICES. Includes the access and transmission of two-
way switched communications within the city, including local telephone and
telecommunication services.
   INTEREXCHANGE SERVICES. The access and transmission of communications
between two or more local exchange areas; provided, that such INTEREXCHANGE
SERVICE either originates from an end user within the city or terminates with
an end user within the city and is charged to a service address within the city
regardless of where the charges are actually paid.
   MOBILE SERVICES. Any radio or similar telecommunication services provided
pursuant to license or authority granted by the Federal Communications
Commission charged to a service address within the city regardless of where the
charges are actually paid, including cellular, radio paging or mobile radio
services.
   SIMILAR TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Includes, but not is limited to, any
electronic or electromagnetic transmission of messages originating and
terminating in the state and charged to a service address in the city
regardless of where the charges are actually paid.
(Prior Code, § 10-1113) (Ord. 763, passed 1-6-1998)
§ 110.16 TAX ON SERVICES.
   There is hereby levied upon every person, firm, partnership, corporation or
association engaged in the business of offering or providing telecommunication
services to the public for hire in the city, including mobile services and
similar telecommunication services provided pursuant to the license or
authority granted by the Federal Communication Commission, an occupation tax of
3% of the gross receipts resulting from any toll services and charges on basic
local exchange services; interexchange services, mobile services and similar
telecommunication services.
(Prior Code, § 10-1114) (Ord. 763, passed 1-6-1998; Ord. 866, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 110.17 GROSS RECEIPTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Gross receipts shall include all receipts of every person, firm,
partnership, corporation or association engaged in the business of offering or
providing telecommunication services to the public for hire in the city, except
for the following:
   (A)   Interstate telecommunications between persons in the city and persons
outside of the state;
   (B)   Local carrier access charges, transmission facilities and switching
services provided to telecommunication companies;
   (C)   Accounts of:
      (1)   The city or any of its agencies or departments;
      (2)   All public, private, denominational or parochial schools which have
met state accreditation or approval requirements;
      (3)   The county or any of its agencies or departments;
      (4)   The state or any of its agencies, subdivisions or departments; and
      (5)   United States Government or any of its agencies or departments.
   (D)   Sales of equipment, repairs or installation charges, advertising
revenues and rental fees from customers’ premises equipment.
(Prior Code, § 10-1115) (Ord. 763, passed 1-6-1998)
§ 110.18 PAYMENT OF TAX AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Effective date. The imposition of said occupation tax shall commence
on December 21, 1997.
(Prior Code, § 10-1116)
   (B)   Payment of tax. All telecommunication companies engaged in the
business of offering or providing telecommunication services to the public for
hire in the city shall compute and pay the occupation tax to the city on a
monthly basis. The occupation tax for each month shall become due and owing
within 30 days after the last day of the month in which service is billed by
the telecommunications company.
(Prior Code, § 10-1117)
(Ord. 763, passed 1-6-1998)
§ 110.19 STATEMENT OF GROSS RECEIPTS.
   All telecommunication companies shall, at the time they make their monthly
payment of the occupation tax levied pursuant to this subchapter, file with the
City Clerk a full, complete and detailed statement of the gross receipts
subject to such occupation tax, which statement shall be duly verified and
sworn to by the manager in charge of the business of the particular company in
the city or by a higher managerial employee of such company. The city shall
have the right at any time to inspect, through its officers, agents or
representatives, the books and records of any telecommunications company for
the purpose of verifying any reports submitted pursuant to the requirements of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-1118) (Ord. 763, passed 1-6-1998)
§ 110.20 USE OF FUNDS.
   All funds received by the city from the aforesaid occupation tax upon
telecommunication companies shall be utilized by the city for general fund
purposes and expenditures within corporate limits of the city and its zoning
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 10-1119) (Ord. 763, passed 1-6-1998)
CHAPTER 111: ITINERANT SALES
Section
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application
   
111.04   Fee
   
111.05   Bond
   
111.06   Appointment of agent
   
111.07   Hours of solicitation
   
111.08   License expiration
   
111.09   Appeal
   
111.10   Enforcement
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person, firm
or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, and whether a
resident of the municipality or not, who engages temporarily within the
municipality in the business of selling and delivering goods, wares or
merchandise or taking orders for goods or merchandise, to or at homes,
apartments or other residential premises in the municipality. A TRANSIENT
MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR shall not include not-for-
profit organizations conducting fund raising activities, including, but not
limited to, school organizations, youth scouting and sports organizations and
church organizations.
(Prior Code, § 10-201) (Ord. 884, passed 9-14-2010)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an itinerant vendor to engage in such
business within the municipality without first obtaining a license therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to peddle, sell or offer to sell
any commodity or article of commerce or trade to park their conveyances or
erect a place of business for the purpose of selling said products upon any
street within the Business District; provided, however, that any farmer, truck
grower or others who produce, hawk or peddle products of the farm shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134 and 75-323 through 75-335
§ 111.03 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for a license shall file a written sworn application signed by
the applicant, if an individual, by all partners, if a partnership, and by the
president, if a corporation, with the Municipal Clerk, showing:
   (A)   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed
that it will be carried on in the municipality; the local address or addresses
of such person or persons while engaged in such business; the permanent address
or addresses of such person or persons; the capacity in which such person or
persons will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name
and address of the person, firm or corporation for whose account the business
will be carried on, if any; and, if a corporation, under the law of what state
the same is incorporated;
   (B)   The place or places in the municipality where it is proposed to carry
on applicant’s business, and the length of time during which it is proposed
that such business shall be conducted;
   (C)   A statement of the nature of merchandise to be sold or offered for
sale by the applicant;
   (D)   A brief statement of the nature of the advertising done or proposed to
be done in order to attract customers;
   (E)   Credentials from the person for whom the applicant proposes to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative;
   (F)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant’s
business or the method or plan of doing such business as the Municipal Clerk
may deem proper; and
   (G)   Any criminal convictions of the applicant, whether in the state or any
other state, for any misdemeanors or felonies, for which the possible penalty
of sentence could include a sentence of imprisonment or jail for any period of
time.
(Prior Code, § 10-203) (Ord. 884, passed 9-14-2010)
§ 111.04 FEE.
   The applicant shall pay a license fee of $5 per day to cover the cost of
processing the application and issuing the license.
(Prior Code, § 10-204)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134 and 17-525
§ 111.05 BOND.
   Before any license shall be issued for engaging in an itinerant business,
such applicant shall file with the Municipal Clerk a bond running to the
municipality in a sum set by resolution of the governing body and executed by
the applicant as principal, and one corporate surety, or two individual
sureties upon whom service of process may be had in the county, such bond to be
approved by the Municipal Attorney, conditioned that such applicant shall
comply fully with all the provisions of this code and the statutes of the
state, regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares or merchandise, and
will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation of this
code or the statutes of the city or state, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him or her by any person for
damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any
person transacting business with such applicant, either at the time of making
the sale or through any advertisement of any character whatsoever with
reference to the merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may
be brought in the name of the municipality to the use of the aggrieved person.
Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any itinerant vender required to
file a bond under the provisions of the statutes of the state as a prerequisite
of doing business within the state.
(Prior Code, § 10-205)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134 and 75-329
§ 111.06 APPOINTMENT OF AGENT.
   (A)   Before any license shall be issued, such applicant shall file with the
Municipal Clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the Municipal Clerk, or
the person performing the duties of such position, his or her true and lawful
agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice or process
in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the business
transacted under such license.
   (B)   Immediately upon being served with process, the Municipal Clerk shall
send to the licensee at his or her last known address, by registered mail, a
copy of such process. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any
itinerant vendor required to appoint a state official as an agent for the
purpose of receiving service of process as a prerequisite for doing business
within the state.
(Prior Code, § 10-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134 and 75-325
§ 111.07 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, salesperson or peddler to solicit
any individual between the hours of 6:00 p.m. or 8:00 a.m. unless they have a
previous appointment with the resident, or residents, of the premises
solicited. It shall be unlawful at any hour for a solicitor, salesperson or
peddler to solicit without a proper permit on his or her person at all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-207) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 111.08 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued shall expire 180 days after the date of issuance thereof
unless a prior date is fixed therein.
(Prior Code, § 10-208)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
§ 111.09 APPEAL.
   (A)   A license may be denied by the municipality if it is determined that
an applicant, solicitor salesperson or peddler has been convicted of any crime
in the state or any other state, for any misdemeanor or felony for which the
possible penalty could include a sentence of imprisonment or jail for any
period of time.
   (B)   Any license may be revoked by the governing body, after notice and a
hearing, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee, whether in the state or any other
state, of any kind which is a misdemeanor or felony for which the possible
penalty could include a sentence of imprisonment or jail for any period of
time; and
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a menace
to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (C)   Notice of a hearing for the revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by registered mail, postage
prepaid, to the licensee, at his or her last known address, at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 10-209) (Ord. 884, passed 9-14-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Municipal Clerk in regard to the
denial of an application for a license, or in connection with the revocation of
a license, shall have the right to appeal to the governing body. Such appeal
shall be taken by filing with the governing body, within 14 days after notice
of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The governing body shall set
the time and place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice shall be given to
such person by registered mail, postage prepaid, at his or her last known
address. The order of the governing body on such appeal shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 10-210)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-134
CHAPTER 112: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License application
   
112.04   Location of business
   
112.05   Regulations for operation
   
112.06   Nuisance
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person who shall be engaged in the business of buying,
selling, receiving, storing, collecting or dealing in scrap metal, secondhand
parts of motor vehicles or machinery, motor vehicles or machinery which are
being kept for the purpose of being dismantled or discarded, bottles, scrap
rubber, rags, paper, bones or junk in general is hereby defined to be a JUNK
DEALER. In interpreting this chapter insofar as the same applies to used cars
and secondhand parts of cars, the same shall not be deemed to apply to bona
fide secondhand automobile dealers, but the mere fact that the owner or
operator of said establishment reconditions or sells some secondhand cars shall
not eliminate his or her establishment from the effect of the provisions of
this chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Areas within the corporate limits of the city where
the principal use thereof is for personal living quarters and residences of
persons and families shall be deemed to be a RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
(Prior Code, § 10-601)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person engaged in or entering into the business of junk dealer
within the corporate limits of the city shall obtain a license to engage in
said business.
   (B)   All licenses so issued shall continue in force, unless sooner revoked
or suspended, to April 30, after the date of issuance thereof. Licenses may be
renewed by the Mayor and Council, upon application being made for renewal with
the City Clerk for a period beginning May 1 of the year of such application for
renewal and ending on April 30 of the following year. A license fee of $1 shall
be paid to the city for said annual renewal which shall be paid at the time of
making application therefor.
(Prior Code, § 10-602)
§ 112.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   All applicants for original license under this chapter shall file a written
application for such license with the City Clerk and with said application pay
to the city the sum of $1 for the fee for said license. Said application shall
state the name of the owner and operator of said business to the Mayor and
Council who shall make such investigation as they deem necessary of the
proposed location set forth in said application and shall grant such license
only if they deem that the operation of the business in said location will not
be injurious to the public health, safety and welfare and that they are
reasonably satisfied that the premises proposed meet the requirements of this
chapter. If the application is granted, the City Clerk shall forthwith issue a
license authorizing the applicant to engage in business as a junk dealer to
April 30 next following.
(Prior Code, § 10-603)
§ 112.04 LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   No junk dealer shall establish or engage in the business of a junk dealer,
as herein defined, in any location of the Residential District, as herein
defined, within the corporate limits of the city; provided, that any junk
dealer actually engaged in such business in a Residential District of the city
as of the effective date of this chapter may continue said business in such
location upon compliance with all other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-604) (Ord. 201, passed 5-1-1958)
§ 112.05 REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION.
   (A)   Every junk dealer shall keep and confine the goods and materials
received or held by him or her within the limits of the premises for which the
license is granted, and none of the same shall be placed or be allowed to
remain upon any adjoining property, sidewalk, street or alley only except as
may be necessary in the loading or unloading of the same and in any event the
same shall be promptly removed therefrom.
   (B)   All areas of junk yards wherein junk is piled, kept or stored adjacent
to or abutting a public street, sidewalk or alley shall have erected thereon
upon or near the boundary line nearest such public street, sidewalk or alley, a
suitable fence or wall of board, metal, mesh wire or masonry construction of
sufficient height, and in all cases at least four feet high, and of a
sufficient solid structure as to hide all junk from view from the outside. All
junk shall be placed thereon so that said junk will not encroach or be upon
such public street, sidewalk or alley or endanger persons or property there on
or passing along the same. All entrances to such area from the public street or
alley shall be equipped with a suitable door or gate.
   (C)   All junk shall be kept or stored in such a manner as to make possible
control and eradication of rats and vermin and to minimize the danger of fire.
Owners and operators of junkyards shall use reasonable measures to the end that
the junk yard shall not become or be infested with rats and vermin to the
extent that public health, safety and welfare are endangered.
   (D)   Any and all open fires started in junk yards for the purpose of
burning junk or waste materials shall be tended at all times and shall be
confined so as not to endanger property or persons or create a nuisance and
shall be allowed to burn only during daylight hours.
(Prior Code, § 10-605)
§ 112.06 NUISANCE.
   Any junk yard that becomes a danger to the public health, or is not operated
in the manner herein provided, shall be deemed to be a public nuisance after a
30-day period of grace. The governing body may then request the Municipal
Attorney to prosecute the owner, operator, director or employee of the nuisance
for violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-606)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Sale or gift to minor or mentally incompetent person prohibited
   
113.03   Consumption in public places or places open to the public;
restrictions
   
113.04   Removal of intoxicated persons from public or quasi-public property
Licenses Required
   
113.15   Manufacture, sale, delivery, and possession; general prohibitions;
exceptions
   
113.16   Liquor zone; licenses
   
113.17   Acquisition and possession; restrictions
   
113.18   Licensee requirements
   
113.19   Licenses; city powers and duties
   
113.20   Licensed premises; inspections
   
113.21   License renewal; municipal powers and duties
   
113.22   Catering licenses
   
113.23   Display of license
   
113.24   Owner of premises or agent; liability
   
113.25   Licensee; liability for acts of officer, agent or employee
   
113.26   Citizen complaints
Retail Establishments
   
113.45   Location
   
113.46   Access to dwellings
   
113.47   Sanitary conditions
   
113.48   Hours of sale
   
113.49   Credit sales prohibited
   
113.50   Original package
   
113.51   Open hours; pheasant season
   
113.52   Keg sales
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in Neb. RS 53-103.01
through 53-103.51 shall be used. In addition, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STATE LIQUOR CONTROL ACT or ACT. Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 113.02 SALE OR GIFT TO MINOR OR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PERSON PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, furnish, give away, dispose of, exchange or deliver,
or permit the sale, gift or procuring of any alcoholic liquors, to or for any
minor or to any person who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-180) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES OR PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except when the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission has issued a
license as provided in Neb. RS 53-186(2) or as provided in Neb. RS 60-6,211.08,
it is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor upon property owned
or controlled by the state or any governmental subdivision thereof unless
authorized by the governing bodies having jurisdiction over such property.
(Neb. RS 53-186)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, managing, or
conducting any bottle club, dance hall, restaurant, café, or club or any place
open to the general public to permit or allow any person to consume alcoholic
liquor upon the premises except as permitted by a license issued for such
premises pursuant to the Nebraska Liquor Control Act. It is unlawful for any
person to consume alcoholic liquor in any dance hall, restaurant, café, or club
or any place open to the general public except as permitted by a license issued
for such premises pursuant to the Act. This division (B) does not apply to a
retail licensee while lawfully engaged in the catering of alcoholic beverages
or to limousines or buses operated under Neb. RS 60-6,211.08.
(Neb. RS 53-186.01)
Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 113.04 REMOVAL OF INTOXICATED PERSONS FROM PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer with the power to arrest for traffic
violations may take a person who is intoxicated and, in the judgment of the
officer, dangerous to himself, herself or others, or who is otherwise
incapacitated, from any public or quasi-public property. An officer removing an
intoxicated person from public or quasi-public property shall make a reasonable
effort to take the intoxicated person to his or her home or to place the person
in any hospital, clinic or mental health substance use treatment center, or
with a medical doctor as may be necessary to preserve life or to prevent
injury. The effort at placement shall be deemed reasonable if the officer
contacts such facilities or doctor which have previously represented a
willingness to accept and treat such individuals and which regularly do accept
such individuals. If these efforts are unsuccessful or are not feasible, the
officer may then place the intoxicated person in civil protective custody,
except that civil protective custody shall be used only as long as is necessary
to preserve life or to prevent injury, and under no circumstances longer than
24 hours.
   (B)   The placement of the person in civil protective custody shall be
recorded at the facility or jail at which he or she is delivered and
communicated to his or her family or next of kin, if they can be located, or to
the person designated by the person taken into civil protective custody.
   (C)   The law enforcement officer who acts in compliance with this section
shall be deemed to be acting in the course of his or her official duty and
shall not be criminally or civilly liable for these actions.
   (D)   The taking of an individual into civil protective custody under this
section shall not be considered an arrest. No entry or other record shall be
made to indicate that the person has been arrested or charged with a crime.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MENTAL HEALTH SUBSTANCE USE TREATMENT CENTER. Has the same meaning as in
Neb. RS 71-423.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or city-owned property.
      QUASI-PUBLIC PROPERTY. Private or publicly owned property utilized for
proprietary or business uses which invites patronage by the public or which
invites public ingress and egress.
(Neb. RS 53-1,121) Penalty, see §
113.99
LICENSES REQUIRED
§ 113.15 MANUFACTURE, SALE, DELIVERY, AND POSSESSION; GENERAL PROHIBITIONS;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall manufacture, bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish, or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes except
as specifically provided in this chapter and the Nebraska Liquor Control Act.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent:
      (1)   The possession of alcoholic liquor legally obtained as provided in
this chapter or the Act for the personal use of the possessor and his or her
family or guests;
      (2)   The making, transport, and delivery of wine, cider, beer, mead,
perry, or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables, honey or
grains, or the product thereof, by simple fermentation and without
distillation:
         (a)   If made solely for the use of the maker and his or her family
and guests if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for sale; or
          (b)   If made without a permit for an exhibition, festival, or
tasting competition, including exhibitions, festivals, or tasting competitions
that are for nonprofit organizations such as fundraising events, legally
conducted under the act, if such alcoholic liquor is not sold or offered for
sale. Alcoholic liquor served pursuant to this subdivision (b) shall clearly be
identified as alcoholic liquor that was manufactured under an exception to the
rules and regulations of the commission by signage, and the location of the
manufacturer shall be available upon request. Free or reduced admission to the
exhibition, festival, or tasting competition shall not be considered a sale of
the alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from possessing
or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her profession, any
hospital or other institution caring for the sick and diseased persons from
possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona fide patients
of that hospital or other institution, or any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor in the compounding of
prescriptions of licensed physicians;
      (4)   The possession and dispensation of alcoholic liquor by an
authorized representative of any religion on the premises of a place of
worship, for the purpose of conducting any bona fide religious rite, ritual, or
ceremony;
      (5)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from carrying alcoholic
liquor from licensed establishments when they are accompanied by a person not a
minor;
      (6)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from handling alcoholic
liquor containers and alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment;
      (7)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from removing and disposing
of alcoholic liquor containers for the convenience of the employer and
customers in the course of their employment;
      (8)   Persons who are 16 years old or older from completing a transaction
for the sale of alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment if they are
not handling or serving alcoholic liquor; or
      (9)   Persons who are 19 years old or older from serving or selling
alcoholic liquor in the course of their employment.
(Neb. RS 53-168.06) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 113.16 LIQUOR ZONE; LICENSES.
   (A)   The following described territory within the city shall be and
constitute the Liquor Zone of the city: Commencing at the southeast corner of
Lot 299 in the original city, the same being located at the intersection of
Main with Fourth Street, thence running west along the north line or boundary
of said Fourth Street to the southwest corner of Lot 283, located at the
intersection of Fourth and Harris Streets, thence north along the east line of
Harris Street to the south line of an alley running east and west, bisecting
the Reserved Hotel Square also known as the Hotel Block in said city, thence
east along the south side of the alley, if projected, to the west line of Main
Street, the east terminal of the line being the northeast corner of Lot 207 in
said city, thence south along the west line of Main Street to the place of
beginning; all of Lots 201, 202, 203 and 204 in the original city; the north
half of the northeast quarter of Lot 225, (Reserved Hotel Square) in the
original city; and Lots 263, 262 and the west half of Lot 261, and all of the
vacated east-west alley lying between the west half of said Lot 261 and all of
Lots 262 and 263 on the north, and Lots 264, 265 and the west half of Lot 266
on the south, the same being designated as “Third Alley” and being
approximately 12 feet in width north-south; and the east 66 feet of Lots 92, 93
and 94; all in the original city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to grant any license for the sale of alcoholic
liquors, including beer, within said city, unless the licensed premises shall
be located within the boundaries of said zone and territory as described
hereinabove.
(Prior Code, § 10-103) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-132(h)
§ 113.17 ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, receive, acquire,
accept, or possess any alcoholic liquor acquired from any other person other
than one duly licensed to handle alcoholic liquor under this chapter and the
Nebraska Liquor Control Act unless within specific exemptions or exceptions
provided in this chapter or the Act.
(Neb. RS 53-175)
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to transport, import, bring, ship, or cause to be
transported, imported, brought, or shipped into this state for the personal use
of the possessor, his or her family, or guests a quantity of alcoholic liquor
in excess of nine liters in any one calendar month.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above does not apply to a person importing
alcoholic liquor from a holder of a retail direct sales shipping license or its
equivalent, which alcoholic liquor is for personal use or for use by such
person’s family or guests, if the total amount imported by such person in any
one calendar year does not exceed 108 liters.
(Neb. RS 53-194.03)
Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 113.18 LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of this state, except in case of
railroad, airline, boat or special party bus licenses;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   A person who is not a resident of this state and legally able to
work in this state;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state or the United States;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of or has pleaded guilty to any
Class I misdemeanor, pursuant Neb. RS Chapter 28, Article 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11 or
12, or any similar offense under a prior criminal statute or in another state,
except that any additional requirements imposed by this division (A)(5) on May
18, 1983, shall not prevent any person holding a license on that date from
retaining or renewing that license if the conviction or plea occurred prior to
May 18, 1983;
      (6)   A person whose license issued under the State Liquor Control Act
has been revoked for cause;
      (7)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under the Act would not be eligible for that license upon initial
application;
      (8)   A partnership, unless one of the partners is a resident of this
state and unless all the members of that partnership are otherwise qualified to
obtain a license;
      (9)   A limited liability company, unless one of the members is a
resident of this state and unless all the members of that company are otherwise
qualified to obtain a license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer or director of the corporation or
any stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 25% of the stock of that
corporation would be ineligible to receive a license under this section for any
reason other than the reasons stated in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(3) above, or
if a manager of a corporate licensee would be ineligible to receive a license
under this section for any reason. This division (A)(10) shall not apply to
railroad licenses;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless that manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of the licensee;
      (12)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease or combination of leases on the premises for
the full period for which the license is to be issued;
      (13)   Except as provided in this division (A), an applicant whose spouse
is ineligible under this section to receive and hold a liquor license. Such an
applicant shall become eligible for a liquor license only if the State Liquor
Control Commission finds from the evidence that the public interest will not be
infringed upon if the license is granted. It shall be prima facie evidence that
when a spouse is ineligible to receive a liquor license, the applicant is also
ineligible to receive a liquor license. This prima facie evidence shall be
overcome if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commission that:
         (a)   The licensed business will be the sole property of the
applicant; and
         (b)   The licensed premises will be properly operated.
      (14)   A person seeking a license for premises which do not meet
standards for fire safety as established by the State Fire Marshal;
      (15)   A law enforcement officer, except that this division (A)(15) shall
not prohibit a law enforcement officer from holding membership in any nonprofit
organization holding a liquor license or from participating in any manner in
the management or administration of a nonprofit organization; or
      (16)   A person less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   When a trustee is the licensee, the beneficiary or beneficiaries of
the trust shall comply with the requirements of this section, but nothing in
this section shall prohibit any such beneficiary from being a minor or person
who is mentally incompetent.
(Neb. RS 53-125)
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 111.19 LICENSES; CITY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to regulate by ordinance, not
inconsistent with the Nebraska Liquor Control Act, the business of all retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licensees carried on within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Neb. RS 53-134.03)
   (B)   During the period of 45 days after the date of receipt by mail or
electronic delivery from the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission notice and a
copy of an application for a new license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, a
craft brewery license, or a microdistillery license, the City Council may make
and submit to the Commission recommendations relative to the granting or
refusal to grant the license to the applicant.
(Neb. RS 53-131)
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to licenses within the corporate limits
of the city, has the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to
retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery licenses:
      (1)   To cancel or revoke for cause retail, craft brewery, or
microdistillery licenses to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor or bottle club
licenses issued to persons for premises within its jurisdiction, subject to the
right of appeal to the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act to
determine whether any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation adopted by the City Council has been or is being violated, and at
that time examine the premises of the licensee in connection with such
determination. Any law enforcement officer who determines that any provision of
the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and promulgated pursuant to the Act, or
any ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation adopted by the local governing
body has been or is being violated shall report such violation in writing to
the Executive Director of the Commission:
         (a)   Within 30 days after determining that such violation has
occurred;
         (b)   Within 30 days after the conclusion of an ongoing police
investigation; or
         (c)   Within 30 days after the verdict in a prosecution related to
such an ongoing police investigation if the prosecuting attorney determines
that reporting such violation prior to the verdict would jeopardize such
prosecution, whichever is later.
      (3)   To receive a signed complaint from any citizen within its
jurisdiction that any provision of the Act, any rule or regulation adopted and
promulgated pursuant to the Act, or any ordinance, resolution, rule, or
regulation relating to alcoholic liquor has been or is being violated and to
act upon these complaints in the manner provided in the Act;
      (4)   To receive retail, bottle club, craft brewery, and microdistillery
license fees as provided in Neb. RS 53-124 and 53-124.01 and pay the same,
after the license has been delivered to the applicant, to the City Treasurer;
      (5)   To examine or cause to be examined any applicant or any retail,
bottle club, craft brewery, or microdistillery licensee upon whom notice of
cancellation or revocation has been served as provided in the Act, to examine
or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant or licensee,
except as otherwise provided for bottle club licensees under state law, and to
hear testimony and to take proof for its information in the performance of its
duties. For purposes of obtaining any of the information desired, the City
Council may authorize its agent or attorney to act on its behalf;
      (6)   To cancel or revoke on its own motion any license if, upon the same
notice and hearing, it determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the Nebraska Liquor Control Act or any valid and subsisting
ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation duly enacted, adopted, and
promulgated relating to alcoholic liquor. The order of cancellation or
revocation may be appealed to the Commission within 30 days after the date of
the order by filing a notice of appeal with the Commission. The Commission
shall handle the appeal in the manner provided for hearing on an application in
Neb. RS 53-133;
      (7)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and copy of
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-131, to fix a time and place for a
hearing at which the City Council shall receive evidence, either orally or by
affidavit from the applicant and any other person, bearing upon the propriety
of the issuance of a license. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the city, one
time not less than seven and not more than 14 days before the time of the
hearing. The notice shall include, but not be limited to, a statement that all
persons desiring to give evidence before the City Council in support of or in
protest against the issuance of the license may do so at the time of the
hearing. The hearing shall be held not more than 45 days after the date of
receipt of the notice from the Commission, and after the hearing the City
Council shall cause to be recorded in the minute record of its proceedings a
resolution recommending either issuance or refusal of the license. The City
Clerk shall mail to the Commission by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy
of the resolution which shall state the cost of the published notice, except
that failure to comply with this provision shall not void any license issued by
the Commission. If the Commission refuses to issue such a license, the cost of
publication of notice shall be paid by the Commission from the security for
costs;
      (8)   To review and authorize an application by a retail, bottle club,
craft brewery, farm winery, or microdistillery licensee for a temporary
expansion of its licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the local
governing body to an immediately adjacent area owned or leased by the licensee
or to an immediately adjacent street, parking lot, or alley, not to exceed 50
days for calendar year 2020 and, for each calendar year thereafter, not to
exceed 15 days per calendar year, as provided in Neb. RS 53-123.12 and Neb. RS
53-129; and
      (9)   To review and authorize an application by a craft brewery, farm
winery, or microdistillery licensee that holds a promotional farmers market
special designated license for a permit to use such promotional farmers market
special designated license to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor, which the
holder is licensed to produce, at a farmers market within the jurisdiction of
the local governing body as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.17. The local governing
body shall electronically notify the commission within five days after
authorization of any permit pursuant to this subdivision.
(Neb. RS 53-134)
   (D)   (1)   When the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission mails or delivers to
the City Clerk a retail, craft brewery, or microdistillery license issued or
renewed by the Commission, the Clerk shall deliver the license to the licensee
upon receipt from the licensee of proof of payment of:
         (a)   The license fee if by the terms of Neb. RS 53-124 the fee is
payable to the City Treasurer;
         (b)   Any fee for publication of notice of hearing before the City
Council upon the application for the license;
         (c)   The fee for publication of notice of renewal, if applicable, as
provided in Neb. RS 53-135.01; and
         (d)   Occupation taxes, if any, imposed by the city, except that Class
J retail licensees shall not be subject to occupation taxes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any ordinance or charter power to the contrary, the
city shall not impose an occupation tax on the business of any person, firm, or
corporation licensed under the Nebraska Liquor Control Act and doing business
within the corporate limits of the city in any sum which exceeds two times the
amount of the license fee required to be paid under the Act to obtain that
license.
(Neb. RS 53-132)
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 113.20 LICENSED PREMISES; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall cause frequent inspection to be made on the
premises of all retail licensees and bottle club licensees. If it is found that
any such licensee is violating any provision of this chapter, the State Liquor
Control Act or the rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control
Commission, or is failing to observe in good faith the purposes of this chapter
or the Act, the license may be suspended, canceled or revoked after the
licensee is given an opportunity to be heard in his or her defense.
   (B)   The City Council may inspect a charter bus providing service under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity granted by the Public Service
Commission when the owner or operator of the charter allows the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in the charter bus by an individual who is 21 years of age or
older so long as the inspection is performed when the bus has stopped for the
purpose of allowing passengers to embark or disembark.
(Neb. RS 53-116.01)
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 113.21 LICENSE RENEWAL; MUNICIPAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   A retail or bottle club license issued by the State Liquor Control
Commission and outstanding may be automatically renewed by the Commission in
the absence of a written request by the City Council to require the licensee to
submit an application for renewal. Any licensed retail premises located in an
area which is annexed to the city shall file a formal application for a
license, and while the application is pending, the licensee may continue all
license privileges until the original license expires or is canceled or
revoked. If that license expires within 60 days following the annexation date
of the area, the license may be renewed by order of the Commission for not more
than one year.
(Neb. RS 53-135)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause to be published in a legal newspaper in or
of general circulation in the city, one time between January 10 and January 30
of each year, individual notice in the form prescribed by law of the right of
automatic renewal of each retail liquor and beer license within the city,
except that notice of the right of automatic renewal of Class C licenses shall
be published between the dates of July 10 and July 30 of each year. If written
protests to the issuance of automatic renewal of a license are filed in the
office of the City Clerk by three or more residents of the city on or before
February 10, or August 10 for Class C licenses, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether continuation of the license should be allowed.
Upon the conclusion of any hearing required by this section, the City Council
may request a licensee to submit an application as provided in Neb. RS 53-135.
(Neb. RS 53-135.01)
§ 113.22 CATERING LICENSES.
   (A)   The holder of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail issued
under Neb. RS 53-124, a craft brewery license, a microdistillery license, or a
farm winery license may obtain an annual catering license by filing an
application and license fee with the Nebraska Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Upon receipt from the Commission of the notice and a copy of the
application as provided in Neb. RS 53-124.12, the City Council shall process
the application in the same manner as provided in §
111.19.
   (C)   The City Council, with respect to catering licensees within its
corporate limits, may cancel a catering license for cause for the remainder of
the period for which that catering license is issued. Any person whose catering
license is canceled may appeal to the District Court.
   (D)   The City Council may impose an occupation tax on the business of a
catering licensee doing business within the liquor license jurisdiction of the
City Council. The tax may not exceed double the license fee for a catering
license.
(Neb. RS 53-124.12)
§ 113.23 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under the State Liquor Control Act shall cause his or her
license to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
(Neb. RS 53-148) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 113.24 OWNER OF PREMISES OR AGENT; LIABILITY.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of that owner or
person, knowingly permits the licensee to use the licensed premises in
violation of the terms of the State Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance,
that owner, agent or other person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of the
Act or ordinance to the same extent as the licensee and be subject to the same
punishment.
(Neb. RS 53-1,101) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 113.25 LICENSEE; LIABILITY FOR ACTS OF OFFICER, AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of the State Liquor Control Act or any city ordinance by any
officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, if the
act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee
personally.
(Neb. RS 53-1,102) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
§ 113.26 CITIZEN COMPLAINTS.
   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a complaint with
the City Council stating that any retail licensee or bottle club licensee
subject to the jurisdiction of the City Council has been or is violating any
provision of the State Liquor Control Act or the rules or regulations issued
pursuant to the Act. The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed
by the City Council and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the City Council is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for that belief, it shall set the matter for hearing within
ten days from the date of the filing of the complaint and shall serve notice
upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing and of the particular
charge in the complaint. The complaint shall in all cases be disposed of by the
City Council within 30 days from the date the complaint was filed by resolution
thereof, which resolution shall be deemed the final order for purposes of
appeal to the State Liquor Control Commission as provided in Neb. RS 53-1,115.
(Neb. RS 53-134.04)
Statutory reference:
   State Liquor Control Act, see Neb. RS 53-101 et seq.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 113.45 LOCATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) below, no license shall
be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor or for a bottle club
within 150 feet of any church, school, hospital or home for indigent persons or
for veterans and their wives or children. This prohibition does not apply:
      (1)   To any location within such distance of 150 feet for which a
license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail or for a bottle club has been
granted by the State Liquor Control Commission for two years continuously prior
to making of application for license;
      (2)   To hotels offering restaurant service, to regularly organized clubs
or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted
was established for such purposes prior to May 24, 1935; or
      (3)   To a college or university in the state which is subject to Neb. RS
53-177.01.
   (B)   If a proposed location for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
or for a bottle club is within 150 feet of any church, a license may be issued
if the Commission gives notice to the affected church and holds a hearing as
prescribed in Neb. RS 53-133 if the affected church submits a written request
for a hearing.
(Neb. RS 53-177)
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold for consumption on the premises
within 300 feet from the campus of any college or university in the state,
except that this section:
      (1)   Does not prohibit a nonpublic college or university from
contracting with an individual or corporation holding a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail for the purpose of selling alcoholic liquor at
retail on the campus of such college or university at events sanctioned by such
college or university but does prohibit the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail
by such licensee on the campus of such nonpublic college or university at
student activities or events; and
      (2)   Does not prohibit sales of alcoholic liquor by a community college
culinary education program pursuant to Neb. RS 53-124.15.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F) below, the Commission may
waive the 300-foot restriction in division (C) above taking into consideration
one or more of the following:
      (1)   The impact of retail sales of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises on the academic mission of the college or university;
      (2)   The impact on students and prospective students if such sales were
permitted on or near campus;
      (3)   The impact on economic development opportunities located within or
in proximity to the campus; and
      (4)   The waiver would likely reduce the number of applications for
special designated licenses requested by the college or university or its
designee.
   (E)   To apply for a waiver under this section, the applicant shall submit a
written application to the Commission. The Commission shall notify the
governing body of the affected college or university when the Commission
receives an application for a waiver. The application shall include:
      (1)   The address of the location for which the waiver is requested;
      (2)   The name and type of business for which the waiver is requested;
and
      (3)   A description of the justification for the waiver explaining how
the proposed location complies with the findings prescribed in division (E)(2)
above.
   (F)   The Commission shall not waive the 300-foot restriction in division
(C) above without written approval from the governing body of the college or
university or its designee if the physical location of the property which is
the subject of the requested waiver is surrounded by property owned by the
college or university including any public or private easement, street or
right-of-way adjacent to the property owned by the college or university or
adjacent to property on two or more sides owned by the college or university,
including any public or private easement, street or right-of-way adjacent to
the property owned by the college or university.
   (G)   No bottle club shall be operated within 300 feet from the campus of
any college or university in the state.
(Neb. RS 53-177.01)
Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   State Commission may waive 300-foot requirement, see Neb. RS 53-177.01
§ 113.46 ACCESS TO DWELLINGS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
manufactured or sold at retail or wholesale upon any premises which have any
access which leads from the premises to any other portion of the same building
or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and permitted to be used or
kept accessible for use by the public. This section does not prevent any
connection between the premises and such other portion of the building or
structure which is used only by the licensee, his or her family or personal
guests.
(Neb. RS 53-178) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.47 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to open for public use any retail liquor establishment
that is not in a clean and sanitary condition. Toilet facilities shall be
adequate and convenient for customers and patrons. The licensed premises shall
be subject to any health inspections the City Council or other authorized
officer of the municipality may make or cause to be made. All applications for
liquor licenses shall be viewed in part from the standpoint of the sanitary
conditions, and a report concerning the sanitary conditions shall be made at
all hearings concerning the application for or renewal of a liquor license.
Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate licensed premises, see Neb. RS 53-134.03
   State sanitary rules and regulations authorized, see Neb. RS 53-118
§ 113.48 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or
dispensed on any day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. except that
the City Council with respect to area inside the corporate limits of the city
may by ordinance or resolution:
      (1)   Require closing prior to 1:00 a.m. on any day;
      (2)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off the premises,
later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day;
      (3)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of City
Council, permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day; or
      (4)   If adopted by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members of City
Council, permit retail sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor for consumption
on the premises, excluding sales for consumption off
the premises, and permit retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off
the premises later than 1:00 a.m. and prior to 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Except as provided for and allowed by ordinance of the City Council,
no alcoholic liquor, including beer, shall be sold at retail or dispensed
inside the corporate limits of the city between the hours of 6:00 a.m. Sunday
and 1:00 a.m. Monday. This division (B) shall not apply after 12 noon on Sunday
to a licensee which is a nonprofit corporation and the holder of a Class C
license or a Class I license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful on property licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at
retail to allow alcoholic liquor in open containers to remain or be in
possession or control of any person for purposes of consumption between the
hours of 15 minutes after the closing hour applicable to the licensed premises
and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit licensed premises from being
open for other business on days and hours during which the sale or dispensing
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this section.
(Neb. RS 53-179)
§ 113.49 CREDIT SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any
person on credit, on a passbook, on an order on a store, in exchange for any
goods, wares or merchandise or in payment for any services rendered, and if any
person extends credit for any such purpose, the debt thereby attempted to be
created shall not be recoverable at law.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the following:
      (1)   Any club holding a Class C license from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of
members and charged to the account of such members or guests in accordance with
the bylaws of such club;
      (2)   Any hotel or restaurant holding a retail license from permitting
checks or statements for liquor to be signed by regular guests residing at such
hotel or eating at such restaurant and charged to the accounts of such guests;
or
      (3)   Any licensed retailer engaged in the sale of wine or distilled
spirits from issuing tasting cards to customers.
(Neb. RS 53-183) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.50 ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages or leases any premises
in which the sale of alcoholic beverages is licensed to have in their
possession for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor contained in casks, or other
containers except in the original package. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the refilling of original packages of alcoholic liquor for strictly
private use and not for resale.
(Prior Code, § 10-116) (Ord. 604, passed 6-2-1992) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-184
§ 113.51 OPEN HOURS; PHEASANT SEASON.
   (A)   During the open pheasant season for each year, as the same is
designated from time to time by the State Game and Parks Commission, any
establishment for which a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail has been
issued by the State Liquor Control Commission may open at 5:00 a.m. on each day
during said season for the sole purpose of engaging in any lawful business
activity not requiring a State Liquor License.
   (B)   Nothing herein is intended to repeal or affect §
113.48 setting hours of operation for the selling of alcoholic liquor at
retail.
(Prior Code, § 10-118)
§ 113.52 KEG SALES.
   (A)   When any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail sells
alcohol for consumption off the premises in a container with a liquid capacity
of five or more gallons or eighteen and ninety-two hundredths or more liters,
the seller shall record the date of sale, the keg identification number, the
purchaser’s name and address and the number of the purchaser’s motor vehicle
operator’s license, state identification card or military identification, if
such military identification contains a picture of the purchaser, together with
the purchaser’s signature. Such record shall be on a form prescribed by the
Liquor Control Commission and shall be kept by the licensee at the retail
establishment where the purchase was made for not less than six months. Such
records kept pursuant to this section shall be available for inspection by any
law enforcement officer during normal business hours or at any other reasonable
time. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   Licensees shall place a label bearing a keg identification number on
each keg at the time of retail sale. Any person who unlawfully tampers with,
alters or removes the keg identification number from a container described in
division (A) above or is in possession of a container described in division (A)
above with an altered or removed keg identification number after such container
has been taken from the licensed premises pursuant to a retail sale and before
its return to such licensed premises or other place where returned kegs are
accepted shall be guilty of an offense.
(Prior Code, § 10-130) (Ord. 678, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
113.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 53-167.02 and 53-167.03
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 10-1301)
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law. Whenever, in any action, it is established that a
nuisance exists, the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter
an order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 10-1302)
(Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Bingo
   
114.01   Regulation
   
114.02   Tax
   
114.03   Quarterly report
   
114.04   Incorporated regulation
Lottery
   
114.15   Sales outlet locations; approval required; qualifications
   
114.16   Participation; restrictions
BINGO
§ 114.01 REGULATION.
   Games of bingo shall be conducted within the municipality in accordance with
all laws of the municipality and the state, if the game of bingo is played for
or involves profit or gain. Any association duly licensed by the state to
conduct the game of bingo shall obtain a written permit from the governing body
before commencing operation of said game. Application shall be made to the
Municipal Clerk for such permit. Said application form shall contain such
information and documents or copies thereof as the governing body deems
necessary to determine whether to grant or reject the application. Upon the
determination that granting the application would be proper, the governing body
shall immediately direct the Municipal Clerk to issue said license to the
applicant upon the payment of an annual permit fee of $10. Said license shall
be subject to revocation at any time for good cause. Any person or persons so
licensed shall be subject to any other fees, rules or regulations which the
governing body may designate. All permits so issued will automatically expire
on September 30, following its issuance or renewal. The fee for each renewal
unless otherwise prescribed shall be in the sum of $10. Said fee shall be
credited to the General Fund. The permit shall be on display at any place where
a game of bingo is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 10-301)
§ 114.02 TAX.
   A tax of 2% of the gross receipts of each licensed association deriving
revenue from the game of bingo is hereby imposed and levied against each such
association and payable on or before the thirtieth day of the immediately
succeeding calendar quarter. Such tax shall be remitted to the City Clerk, who
shall then remit such tax to the City Treasurer, shall be credited to the
Municipal General Fund or shall be used to pay for the cost of regulation and
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-302) (Ord. 590, passed 6-4-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-239
§ 114.03 QUARTERLY REPORT.
   Each association conducting the game of bingo shall submit a written
quarterly report to the Municipal Clerk covering the preceding calendar quarter
on or before the thirtieth day of the immediately succeeding calendar quarter.
(Prior Code, § 10-303)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-239
§ 114.04 INCORPORATED REGULATION.
   (A)   All applicable state statutes as they now exist or may hereafter be
amended shall be, and will constitute, a part of this subchapter as if repeated
verbatim herein, and violation of any state statute will be a distinct and
separate offense against the municipality as well as against the state.
   (B)   Violators thereof shall be separately prosecuted by the municipality
for each of such offenses, and, if convicted, shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-201 et seq.
LOTTERY
§ 114.15 SALES OUTLET LOCATIONS; APPROVAL REQUIRED; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The lottery operator whom the governing body contracts to conduct its
lottery shall not operate the lottery at a sales outlet location other than the
location of the lottery operator without prior approval of the sales outlet
location by the governing body. The governing body shall approve or disapprove
each sales outlet location and individual, sole proprietorship, partnership or
corporation which desires to conduct the lottery at its sales outlet location
solely on the basis of the qualification standards prescribed in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation which
seeks to have its location approved as an authorized sales outlet location
shall:
      (1)   First obtain a retail liquor license for consumption on the
premises pursuant to Neb. RS Chapter 53, Article 1;
      (2)   Not have been convicted of, forfeited bond upon a charge of or
pleaded guilty to forgery, larceny, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, willful
failure to make required payments or reports to a governmental agency at any
level, filing false reports with any such agency or any similar offense or
offenses or any crime, whether felony or misdemeanor, involving gambling
activity or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Not have had a gaming license revoked or cancelled under the State
Bingo Act, the State Pickle Card Lottery Act, the State Lottery and Raffle Act
or the State County and City Lottery Act; and
      (4)   Be fit, willing or able to properly provide the service proposed in
conformance with all provisions and requirements of the State County and City
Lottery Act and the rules and regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant to
the Act.
   (C)   If the person seeking to have its location approved as an authorized
sales outlet location is a partnership or corporation, the qualification
standards shall apply to every partner of such partnership, every officer of
such corporation and any stockholder owning more than 10% of the stock of such
corporation.
   (D)   The governing body shall notify the Department of Revenue of all
approved lottery locations within 30 days of approval.
   (E)   The information required by this section shall be kept current and a
new application shall be filed with the Department of Revenue if any
information on the application is no longer correct.
(Prior Code, § 10-1201) (Ord. 771, passed 9-8-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-642.01
   State Bingo Act, see Neb. RS 9-201
   State County and City Lottery Act, see Neb. RS 9-601 et seq.
   State Lottery and Raffle Act, see Neb. RS 9-401 et seq.
   State Pickle Card Lottery Act, see Neb. RS 9-301 et seq.
§ 114.16 PARTICIPATION; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person under 19 years of age shall play or participate in any way
in the lottery established and conducted by the governing body.
   (B)   No lottery operator whom the governing body contracts to conduct its
lottery or his or her immediate family, employees or agents, or any person
having an ownership interest in a sales outlet location or employee thereof,
shall play in lottery established and conducted by the governing body.
   (C)   Nothing shall prohibit any member of the governing body, a municipal
official or the immediate family of such member of official, from playing in
the lottery established and conducted by the governing body; provided, that
such person is 19 years of age or older.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean a person
who is related to the member, official or operator by blood, marriage or
adoption and resides in the same household of the member, official or operator;
or a person who is claimed by the member, official, operator or spouse of a
member, official or operator as a dependent for federal income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-1202) (Ord. 772, passed 9-8-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 9-646
CHAPTER 115: RAILROAD COMPANIES
Section
   
115.01   Safe crossing
   
115.02   Speed
   
115.03   Speed limit ordinance, procedure
   
115.04   Lighting
   
115.05   Obstructing traffic
   
115.06   Obstructing view at crossings prohibited
§ 115.01 SAFE CROSSING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every railroad company doing business in, or
traveling through, the municipality to keep in a suitable and safe condition
the crossings and rights-of-way in the municipality.
   (B)   If any such crossing shall at any time fall into disrepair and become
unsafe, or inconvenient for public travel, the governing body may by resolution
call upon said company to make whatever repairs that it may deem necessary to
correct the dangerous condition. Notice of said resolution shall be served upon
the local agent of said company.
   (C)   In the event that the railroad shall fail or neglect to repair and
correct said condition as aforesaid within 48 hours, neglect for each 24 hours
thereafter shall be deemed or is hereby made a separate or distinct offense
against the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 10-1001) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-143, 17-552 and 18-1719
§ 115.02 SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents or
servants to operate a railroad engine, locomotive or other vehicle on its
tracks within or through the municipality at a speed in excess of the speed
designated by the Council as duly passed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10-1002) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-551 and 17-552
§ 115.03 SPEED LIMIT ORDINANCE, PROCEDURE.
   No speed limitation ordinance which would directly affect the operations of
an interstate railroad shall be valid or enforceable unless its adoption is in
compliance with this section. Before the first reading of the proposed
ordinance, the railroad whose operations would be directly affected by the
ordinance shall be given written notice by United States mail of the proposed
ordinance and the date, time and place of such reading. Such notice shall be
given at least ten days prior to the reading. The affected railroad or
railroads shall have an opportunity to be heard at the first reading. After
enactment, the railroad or railroads whose operations would be directly
affected shall be provided a written or printed copy of the ordinance by United
States mail.
(Prior Code, § 10-1003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 74-596
§ 115.04 LIGHTING.
   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies owning, operating or
maintaining a railroad through the municipality to sufficiently light all
crossings and to install as many signal systems as the governing body shall
deem necessary at the expense of said company.
(Prior Code, § 10-1004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-561
§ 115.05 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company, its employees, agents or
servants operating a railroad through the municipality to obstruct traffic on
any public street, except in the event of an emergency, for a longer period at
one time than five minutes.
(Prior Code, § 10-1005) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-552
§ 115.06 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT CROSSINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad company to obstruct or obscure the
traveling public’s view by storing or parking any railroad car on a railroad
track within 75 feet of the crossing of any such railroad track and a public
road within the corporate limits of the municipality; provided, however, that
in no instance shall any person who is authorized to control the movement of
such railroad car or cars within such distance be prevented from reasonably
conducting his or her business.
(Prior Code, § 10-1006) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 74-1323
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   PROPERTY OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: PROPERTY OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Criminal trespass
   
130.02   Electrical interference
   
130.03   Injury to trees
   
130.04   Street lamps
   
130.05   Malicious destruction of property
   
130.06   Larceny
   
130.07   Loitering prohibited
   
130.08   Smoking in prohibited areas
   
130.09   Shoplifting
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL TRESPASS.
   (A)   A person commits first degree criminal trespass if:
      (1)   He or she enters or secretly remains in any building or occupied
structure, or any separately secured or occupied portion thereof, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so; or
      (2)   He or she enters or remains in or on a public power infrastructure
facility knowing that he or she does not have the consent of a person who has
the right to give consent to be in or on the facility.
   (B)   First degree criminal trespass is a Class I misdemeanor.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC POWER INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY
means a power plant, an electrical station or substation or any other facility
which is used by a public power supplier as defined in Neb. RS 70-2103 to
support the generation, transmission or distribution of electricity and which
is surrounded by a fence or is otherwise enclosed.
(Neb. RS 28-520)
   (D)   (1)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing
that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she enters or
remains in any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
         (a)   Actual communication to the actor;
         (b)   Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to
come to the attention of intruders; or
         (c)   Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude
intruders, except as otherwise provided in division (A) above.
      (2)   A person commits second degree criminal trespass if, knowing that
he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she intentionally
causes an electronic device, such as an unmanned aircraft, to enter into, upon
or above the property of another, including such property owned by such person
and
leased or rented to another, with the intent to observe another person without
his or her consent in a place of solitude or seclusion.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT means an
aircraft, including an aircraft commonly known as a drone, which is operated
without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the
aircraft.
      (4)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class III misdemeanor, except
as provided for in division (D)(5) below.
      (5)   Second degree criminal trespass is a Class II misdemeanor if the
offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the
owner of the premises or other authorized person.
(Neb. RS 28-521)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE.
   Any person operating, or causing to be operated, any motor, sign or other
electrical apparatus that is connected with the light and power system shall
equip the apparatus with proper filtering attachments to eliminate
interference, provided that the provisions herein shall not apply to the use of
necessary medical equipment or apparatus where electrical interference cannot
be reasonably and safely eliminated. Any person who so operates or causes to be
operated any such electrical apparatus that interferes habitually with radio
and television reception shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions on nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 28-1321
§ 130.03 INJURY TO TREES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or carelessly and without
lawful authority to cut down, carry away, injure, break down or destroy any
fruit, ornamental, shade or other tree or trees standing or growing on any land
belonging to another person or persons or on any public land in the corporate
limits. Any public service company desiring to trim or cut down any tree,
except on property owned and controlled by it, shall make an application to the
City Council to do so, and the written permit of the City Council in accordance
with their decision to allow such an action shall constitute the only lawful
authority on the part of the company to do so.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 STREET LAMPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break, mar, deface, mutilate,
destroy, remove or carry away any electric light bulb, shade, reflector or
fixture or injure, in any way, any light standard, post or electrolier erected
in the city for the purpose of beautifying, ornamenting or lighting the streets
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-341) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
purposely, willfully or maliciously injure in any manner, or destroy any real
or personal property of any description belonging to another.
(Prior Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-519
§ 130.06 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to steal any
money, goods or chattels of any kind whatever. Any person who shall steal
property of any kind, whether the same be entirely in money or entirely
property of the value of less than $500 shall be deemed to be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-512 and 28-514
§ 130.07 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect’s escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division
(C) if it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a
lawful purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 SMOKING IN PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No person shall smoke in a public place or at a public meeting except in
designated smoking areas; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply in
cases in which an entire room or hall is used for a private social function and
seating arrangements are under the control of the sponsor of the function and
not of the proprietor or person in charge of such room or hall.
(Prior Code, § 6-335) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   A person commits the crime of theft by shoplifting when he or she,
with the intent of appropriating merchandise to his or her own use without
paying for the same or to deprive the owner of possession of such property or
its retail value, in whole or in part, does any of the following:
      (1)   Conceals or takes possession of the goods or merchandise of any
store or retail establishment;
      (2)   Alters the price tag or other price marking on goods or merchandise
of any store or retail establishment;
      (3)   Transfers the goods or merchandise of any store or retail
establishment from one container to another;
      (4)   Interchanges the label or price tag from one item of merchandise
with a label or price tag from another item of merchandise; or
      (5)   Causes the cash register or other sales recording device to reflect
less than the retail price of the merchandise.
   (B)   In any prosecution for theft by shoplifting, in order to allow the
owner or owners of shoplifted property the use of such property pending
criminal prosecutions, photographs of the shoplifted property may be accepted
as prima facie evidence as to the identity of the property. Such photograph
shall be accompanied by a written statement containing the following:
      (1)   A description of the property;
      (2)   The name of the owner or owners of the property;
      (3)   The time, date and location where the shoplifting occurred;
      (4)   The time and date the photograph was taken;
      (5)   The name of the photographer; and
      (6)   Verification by the arresting officer.
   (C)   Prior to allowing the use of shoplifted property as provided in this
section, legal counsel for the alleged shoplifter shall have a reasonable
opportunity to inspect and appraise the property and may file a motion for
retention of the property, which motion shall be granted if there is any
reasonable basis for believing that the photographs and accompanying affidavit
may be misleading.
(Prior Code, § 6-339) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-511.01
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Street games
   
131.03   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.04   Obstructing water flow
   
131.05   Disturbing the peace
   
131.06   Soliciting alms
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in conduct or behavior which
disturbs the peace and good order of the city by clamor or noise, intoxication,
drunkenness, fighting or using obscene or profane language in the streets or
other public places or otherwise violating the public peace by indecent or
disorderly conduct or lewd or lascivious behavior.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent disorderly conduct, see Neb. RS 17-129
   Authority to regulate noise, riots and routs, see Neb. RS 17-556
§ 131.02 STREET GAMES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play catch, bat a ball or kick
or throw a football, or to engage in any exercise or sport, upon the city
streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit or prevent the City
Council from ordering from time to time certain streets and public places
blocked off for the purpose of providing a safe area to engage in such exercise
and sport.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
§ 131.03 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, maintain or suffer to remain
on any street or public sidewalk a stand, wagon, display or other obstruction
inconvenient to or inconsistent with the public use of the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional authority, see Neb. RS 17-555 and 17-557
   Authority to regulate excavation and obstruction of streets, see Neb. RS 17-
142
   Penalties for injuring or obstructing roads, see Neb. RS 39-301 and 39-302
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTING WATER FLOW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or obstruct the passage of water
in a street gutter, culvert, water pipe or hydrant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 17-555
   Authority to prevent water obstruction, see Neb. RS 17-920
§ 131.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to disturb the peace and
quiet of any person, family or neighborhood.
(Neb. RS 28-1322) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 SOLICITING ALMS.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to solicit upon the public
streets or in any private residences alms, gifts or contributions for private
benefit unless the person so soliciting shall have first secured a permit from
the Municipal Clerk authorizing him or her to conduct such operations within
the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-307) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-556
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
132.01   Impersonating a public servant
   
132.02   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.03   Refusing to aid a peace officer
   
132.04   Resisting arrest without the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon
   
132.05   Obstructing a peace officer
   
132.06   Interfering with firefighter
   
132.07   False reporting
§ 132.01 IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC SERVANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person falsely to pretend to be a public
servant other than a peace officer and perform any act in that pretended
capacity. It is no defense that the office the actor pretended to hold did not
in fact exist.
(Neb. RS 28-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely pretend to be a peace officer
and perform any act in that pretended capacity.
(Neb. RS 28-610) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 REFUSING TO AID A PEACE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon a request by a person known to him
or her to be a peace officer, unreasonably to refuse or fail to aid the peace
officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending any person charged with or convicted of any offense
against any of the laws of this state or city;
   (B)   Securing the offender when apprehended; or
   (C)   Conveying the offender to the jail of the county or this city.
(Neb. RS 28-903) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 RESISTING ARREST WITHOUT THE USE OF A DEADLY OR DANGEROUS WEAPON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the use of a deadly or
dangerous weapon, while intentionally preventing or attempting to prevent a
peace officer, acting under color of his or her official authority, from
effecting an arrest of the actor or another, to:
      (1)   Use or threaten to use physical force or violence against the peace
officer or another;
      (2)   Use any other means which creates a substantial risk of causing
physical injury to the peace officer or another; or
      (3)   Employ means requiring substantial force to overcome resistance to
effecting the arrest.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section if the
peace officer involved was out of uniform and did not identify himself or
herself as a peace officer by showing his or her credentials to the person
whose arrest is attempted.
(Neb. RS 28-904) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of obstructing a peace officer when, by
using or threatening to use violence, force, physical interference or obstacle,
he or she intentionally obstructs, impairs or hinders:
      (1)   The enforcement of the penal law or the preservation of the peace
by a peace officer or judge acting under color of his or her official
authority; or
      (2)   A police animal assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to the
peace officer’s official authority.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, POLICE ANIMAL means a horse or dog
owned or controlled by the state or any county, city or village for the purpose
of assisting a peace officer acting pursuant to his or her official authority.
(Neb. RS 28-906) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTER.
   A person commits the offense of interfering with a firefighter if at any
time and place where any firefighter is discharging or attempting to discharge
any official duties, the person willfully:
   (A)   Resists or interferes with the lawful efforts of any firefighter in
the discharge or attempt to discharge an official duty;
   (B)   Disobeys the lawful orders given by any firefighter while performing
his or her duties;
   (C)   Engages in any disorderly conduct which delays or prevents a fire from
being extinguished within a reasonable time; or
   (D)   Forbids or prevents others from assisting or extinguishing a fire, or
exhorts another person, as to whom he or she has no legal right or obligation
to protect or control, not to assist in extinguishing a fire.
(Neb. RS 28-908) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 FALSE REPORTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
peace officer or other official with the intent to instigate an investigation
of an alleged criminal matter or impede the investigation of an actual criminal
matter;
      (2)   Furnish information he or she knows to be false alleging the
existence of the need for the assistance of an emergency medical service or
out-of-hospital emergency care provider or an emergency in which human life or
property are in jeopardy to any hospital, emergency medical service or other
person or governmental agency;
      (3)   Furnish any information or cause such information to be furnished
or conveyed by electric, electronic, telephonic or mechanical means, knowing
the same to be false concerning the need for assistance of a fire department or
any personnel or equipment of such department;
      (4)   Furnish any information he or she knows to be false concerning the
location of any explosive in any building or other property to any person; and/
or
      (5)   Furnish material information he or she knows to be false to any
governmental department or agency with the intent to instigate an investigation
or to impede an ongoing investigation and which actually results in causing or
impending such investigation.
   (B)   A person who violates this section commits the offense of false
reporting.
(Prior Code, § 6-328) (Ord. 773, passed 11-3-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-907
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Maintaining a nuisance
   
133.02   Appliances in yard
   
133.03   Putting carcass or filthy substance into well, spring, brook or stream
   
133.04   Littering
   
133.05   Raising or producing stagnant water
   
133.06   Weeds, litter and stagnant water
Substance Offenses
   
133.20   Sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 21
   
133.21   Misrepresentation by person under the age of 21 to obtain tobacco
   
133.22   Dispensing of tobacco products from vending machines
   
133.23   Drinking on public property; open beverage container
Motor Vehicle and Highway Offenses
   
133.35   Abandoned automobiles
   
133.36   Driving under the influence
   
133.37   Driving under the influence; persons under 21 years of age
Weapons Offenses
   
133.50   Slingshots, air guns, BB guns
   
133.51   Concealed weapons
   
133.52   Discharging a firearm or weapon from any public highway, road or
bridge
   
133.53   Shooting highway signs, markers or notices
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of maintaining a nuisance if he or she
erects, keeps up or continues and maintains any nuisance to the injury of any
part of the citizens of this city.
   (B)   The erecting, continuing, using or maintaining of any building,
structure or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, manufacture
or other business which, by occasioning noxious exhalations, noisome or
offensive smells, becomes injurious and dangerous to the health, comfort or
property of individuals or the public; the obstructing or impeding, without
legal authority, of the passage of any navigable river, harbor or collection of
water; or the corrupting or rendering unwholesome or impure of any watercourse,
stream or water; or unlawfully diverting any such watercourse from its natural
course or state to the injury or prejudice of others; and the obstructing or
encumbering by fences, building, structures or otherwise of any of the public
highways or streets or alleys of the city, shall be deemed nuisances.
   (C)   A person guilty of erecting, continuing, using, maintaining or causing
any such nuisance shall be guilty of a violation of this section and in every
such case the offense shall be construed and held to have been committed in any
county whose inhabitants are or have been injured or aggrieved thereby.
   (D)   The court, in case of conviction of such offense, shall order every
such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1321) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 APPLIANCES IN YARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a refrigerator, icebox,
freezer or any other dangerous appliance to be in the open and accessible to
children whether on private or public property unless the person first removes
all doors and makes the same reasonably safe.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit nuisances within zoning jurisdiction, see Neb. RS 18-
1720
§ 133.03 PUTTING CARCASS OR FILTHY SUBSTANCE INTO WELL, SPRING, BROOK OR
STREAM.
   Whoever shall put any dead animal, carcass or part thereof or other filthy
substance into any well, or into any spring, brook or branch of running water,
of which use is made for domestic purposes, shall be guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04 LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who deposits, throws, discards or otherwise disposes of any
litter on any public or private property or in any waters commits the offense
of littering unless:
      (1)   Such property is an area designated by law for the disposal of such
material and such person is authorized by the proper public authority to so use
such property; or
      (2)   The litter is placed in a receptacle or container installed on such
property for such purpose.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. All waste material susceptible of being dropped, deposited,
discarded or otherwise disposed of by any person upon any property in the state
but does not include wastes of primary processes of farming or manufacturing.
      WASTE MATERIAL. Any material appearing in a place or in a context not
associated with that material’s function or origin.
   (C)   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle or watercraft in violation of this section, the operator of such motor
vehicle or watercraft commits the offense of littering.
(Prior Code, § 6-312) (Ord. 705, passed 10-3-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-523
§ 133.05 RAISING OR PRODUCING STAGNANT WATER.
   Whoever shall build, erect, continue or keep up any dam or other obstruction
in any river or stream of water in the city and thereby raise an artificial
pond, or produce stagnant waters, which shall be manifestly injurious to the
public health and safety shall be guilty of an offense and the court shall,
moreover, order every such nuisance to be abated or removed.
(Neb. RS 28-1303) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 WEEDS, LITTER AND STAGNANT WATER.
   (A)   Lots or pieces of ground within the municipality shall be drained or
filled so as to prevent stagnant water or any other nuisance accumulating
thereon.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any lot or piece of ground within the
municipality shall keep the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining street and
alleys free of any growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or
worthless vegetation.
   (C)   The throwing, depositing or accumulation of litter on any lot or piece
of ground within the municipality is prohibited; provided, that grass, leaves
and worthless vegetation may be used as a ground mulch or in a compost pile.
   (D)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to permit or maintain any
growth of 12 inches or more in height of weeds, grasses or worthless vegetation
or to litter or cause litter to be deposited or remain thereon except in proper
receptacles.
   (E)   Any owner or occupant of a lot or piece of ground shall, upon
conviction of violating this section, be guilty of an offense.
   (F)   Notice to abate and remove such nuisance shall be given to each owner
or owner’s duly authorized agent and to the occupant, if any, by personal
service or certified mail. Within five days after receipt of such notice, if
the owner or occupant of the lot or piece of ground does not request a hearing
with the municipality or fails to comply with the order to abate and remove the
nuisance, the municipality may have such work done. The costs and expenses of
any such work shall be paid by the owner. If unpaid for two months after such
work is done, the municipality may either:
      (1)   Levy and assess the costs and expenses of the work upon the lot or
piece of ground so benefited in the same manner as other special taxes for
improvements are levied and assessed; or
      (2)   Recover in a civil action the costs and expenses of the work upon
the lot or piece of ground and the adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LITTER. Includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Trash, rubbish, refuse, garbage, paper, rags and ashes;
         (b)   Wood, plaster, cement, brick or stone building rubble;
         (c)   Grass, leaves and worthless vegetation;
         (d)   Offal and dead animals; and
         (e)   Any machine or machines, vehicle or vehicles or parts of a
machine or vehicle which have lost their identity, character, utility or
serviceability as such through deterioration, dismantling or the ravages of
time, are inoperative or unable to perform their intended functions, or are
cast off, discarded or thrown away or left as waste, wreckage or junk.
      WEEDS. Includes, but not is limited to, bindweed (convolvulus arvensis),
puncture vine (tribulus terrestris), leafy spurge (euphorbia esula), Canada
thistle (cirsium arvense), perennial peppergrass (lepidium draba), Russian
knapweed (centaurea picris), Johnson grass (sorghum halepense), nodding or musk
thistle, quack grass (agropyron repens), perennial sow thistle (sonchus
arvensis), horse nettle (solanum carolinense), bull thistle (cirsium
lanceolatum), buckthorn (rhamnus sp.) (tourn), hemp plant (canabis sativa) and
ragweed (ambrosiaceae).
(Prior Code, § 6-317) (Ord. 507, passed 11-4-1986; Ord. 697, passed 8-1-1995)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-563 and 18-1720
SUBSTANCE OFFENSES
§ 133.20 SALE OF TOBACCO TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   (A)   Whoever shall sell, give or furnish in any way any tobacco in any form
whatever, or any cigars, cigarettes or cigarette paper, electronic nicotine
delivery systems or alternative nicotine products, to any person under 21 years
of age is guilty of an offense.
   (B)   (1)   In order to further the public policy of deterring licensees or
other persons from violating division (A) above, a person who is at least 15
years of age but under 21 years of age may assist a peace officer in
determining compliance with such division if:
         (a)   The parent or legal guardian of the person has given written
consent for the person to participate in such compliance check if such person
is under 19 years of age;
         (b)   The person is an employee, a volunteer or an intern with a state
or local law enforcement agency;
         (c)   The person is acting within the scope of his or her assigned
duties as part of a law enforcement investigation;
         (d)   The person does not use or consume a tobacco product as part of
such duties; and
         (e)   The person is not actively assigned to a diversion program, is
not a party to a pending criminal proceeding or a proceeding pending under the
State Juvenile Code and is not on probation.
      (2)   Any person under the age of 21 years acting in accordance with and
under the authority of this division (B) shall not be in violation of Neb. RS
28-1427.
(Neb. RS 28-1419) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
State Juvenile Code, see Neb. RS 43-2,129
§ 133.21 MISREPRESENTATION BY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 21 TO OBTAIN TOBACCO.
   Except as provided in §
133.20(B), any person under the age of 21 years who obtains cigars, tobacco,
cigarettes or cigarette material, electronic nicotine delivery systems or
alternative nicotine products from a licensee hereunder by representing that he
or she is of the age of 21 years or over, is guilty of an offense.
(Neb. RS 28-1427) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22 DISPENSING OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS FROM VENDING MACHINES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, it shall be unlawful to
dispense cigarettes or other tobacco products from a vending machine or similar
device.
   (B)   Cigarettes or other tobacco products may be dispensed from a vending
machine or similar device when such machine or device is located in an area,
office, business, plant or factory which is not open to the general public or
on the licensed premises of any establishment having a license issued under the
State Liquor Control Act for the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises when such machine or device is located in the same room in which
the alcoholic liquor is dispensed.
(Prior Code, § 6-342) (Ord. 628, passed 8-3-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1429.02
§ 133.23 DRINKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BEVERAGE CONTAINER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.
         (a)   1.   Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented
beverages, including sake or similar products, of any name or description,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt,
wholly or in part or from any substitute therefor;
            2.   Wine of not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume; or
            3.   Distilled spirits, which is that substance known as ethyl
alcohol, ethanol or spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
         (b)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE does not include trace amounts not readily
consumable as a beverage.
      HIGHWAY. A road or street including the entire area within the right-of-
way.
      LIMOUSINE. A luxury vehicle used to provide prearranged passenger
transportation on a dedicated basis at a premium fare that has a seating
capacity of at least five and no more than 14 persons behind the driver with a
physical partition separating the driver seat from the passenger compartment.
LIMOUSINE does not include taxicabs, hotel or airport buses or shuttles or
buses.
      OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINER. Except as provided in Neb. RS 53-
123.04(3) and 53-123.11(1)(c), any bottle, can or other receptacle:
         (a)   That contains any amount of alcoholic beverage; and
         (b)   1.   That is open or has a broken seal; or
            2.   The contents of which are partially removed.
      PASSENGER AREA. The area designed to seat the driver and passengers while
the motor vehicle is in operation and any area that is readily accessible to
the driver or a passenger while in their seating positions, including any
compartments in the area. PASSENGER AREA does not include the area behind the
last upright seat of the motor vehicle if the area is not normally occupied by
the driver or a passenger and the motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is unlawful for any
person in the passenger area of a motor vehicle to possess an open alcoholic
beverage container while the motor vehicle is located in a public parking area
or on any highway in this city.
   (C)   Except as provided in §
113.03 or division (D) below, it is unlawful for any person to consume an
alcoholic beverage:
      (1)   In a public parking area or on any highway in this city; or
      (2)   Inside a motor vehicle while in a public parking area or on any
highway in this city.
   (D)   This section does not apply to persons who are passengers of, but not
drivers of, a limousine or bus being used in a charter or special party service
as defined by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the State Public
Service Commission and subject to Neb. RS, Chapter 75, Article 3. Such
passengers may possess open alcoholic beverage containers and may consume
alcoholic beverages while such limousine or bus is in a public parking area or
on any highway in this city if:
      (1)   The driver of the limousine or bus is prohibited from consuming
alcoholic liquor; and
      (2)   Alcoholic liquor is not present in any area that is readily
accessible to the driver while in the driver’s seat, including any compartments
in such area.
(Neb. RS 60-6,211.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
MOTOR VEHICLE AND HIGHWAY OFFENSES
§ 133.35 ABANDONED AUTOMOBILES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor vehicle is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended, with no license plates or valid “In
Transit” stickers issued pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Registration Act affixed
thereto, for more than six hours on any public property;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            4.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            5.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            6.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (b)   An all-terrain vehicle or minibike is an ABANDONED VEHICLE:
            1.   If left unattended for more than 24 hours on any public
property, except a portion thereof on which parking is legally permitted;
            2.   If left unattended for more than 48 hours, after the parking
of such vehicle has become illegal, if left on a portion of any public property
on which parking is legally permitted;
            3.   If left unattended for more than seven days on private
property if left initially without permission of the owner, or after permission
of the owner is terminated;
            4.   If left for more than 30 days in the custody of a city law
enforcement agency after the agency has sent a letter to the last-registered
owner and lienholder under division (D) below; or
            5.   If removed from private property by the city pursuant to a
city ordinance or this code.
         (c)   A mobile home is an ABANDONED VEHICLE if left in place on
private property for more than 30 days after a local governmental unit,
pursuant to an ordinance or resolution, has sent a certified letter to each of
the last-registered owners and posted a notice on the mobile home, stating that
the mobile home is subject to sale or auction or vesting of title as set forth
in Neb. RS 60-1903.
         (d)   No motor vehicle subject to forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431
shall be an ABANDONED VEHICLE under this section.
      MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on
its own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a
permanent foundation for year-round living. It may consist of one or more units
that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity,
or of two or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one
integral unit and shall include a manufactured home as defined in Neb. RS 71-
4603. MOBILE HOME does not include a mobile home or manufactured home for which
an affidavit of affixture has been recorded pursuant to Neb. RS 60-169.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned property which is not included
within the definition of public property.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley or park
or other state, county or city-owned property.
(Neb. RS 60-1901)
   (B)   If an abandoned vehicle, at the time of abandonment, has no license
plates of the current year or valid “In Transit” stickers issued pursuant to
Neb. RS 60-376 affixed and is of a wholesale value, taking into consideration
the condition of the vehicle, of $500 or less, title shall immediately vest in
the city. Any certificate of title issued under this division (B) to the city
shall be issued at no cost to the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1902)
   (C)   (1)   Except for vehicles governed by division (B) above, the city
shall make an inquiry concerning the last-registered owner of such vehicle as
follows:
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle with license plates affixed, to the
jurisdiction which issued such license plates; or
         (b)   Abandoned vehicle with no license plates affixed, to the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall notify the last-registered owner, if any, and any
lienholder, if any, within 15 business days that the vehicle in question has
been determined to be an abandoned vehicle and that, if unclaimed, either:
         (a)   It will be sold or will be offered at public auction after five
days from the date such notice was mailed; or
         (b)   Title will vest in the city 30 days after the date such notice
was mailed.
      (3)   If the agency described in divisions (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) above
also notifies the city that a lien or mortgage exists, such notice shall also
be sent to the lienholder or mortgagee. Any person claiming such vehicle shall
be required to pay the cost of removal and storage of such vehicle.
      (4)   Title to an abandoned vehicle, if unclaimed, shall vest in the
city:
         (a)   Five days after the date the notice is mailed if the vehicle
will be sold or offered at public auction under division (C)(2)(a) above;
         (b)   Thirty days after the date the notice is mailed if the city will
retain the vehicle; or
         (c)   If the last-registered owner cannot be ascertained, when notice
of such fact is received.
      (5)   After title to the abandoned vehicle vests pursuant to division (C)
(4) above, the city may retain for use, sell or auction the abandoned vehicle.
If the city has determined that the vehicle should be retained for use, the
city shall, at the same time that the notice, if any, is mailed, publish in a
newspaper of general circulation in the jurisdiction an announcement that the
city intends to retain the abandoned vehicle for its use and that title will
vest in the city 30 days after the publication.
(Neb. RS 60-1903)
   (D)   (1)   If a city law enforcement agency has custody of a motor vehicle
for investigatory purposes and has no further need to keep it in custody, it
shall send a certified letter to each of the last-registered owners, if any,
and lienholders, if any, within 15 calendar days stating that the vehicle is in
the custody of the law enforcement agency, that the vehicle is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes and that after 30 days the agency will dispose of
the vehicle.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to
forfeiture under Neb. RS 28-431.
      (3)   No storage fees shall be assessed against the registered owner of a
motor vehicle held in custody for investigatory purposes under this division
(D) unless the registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when
it is taken into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor related to the
offense for which the law enforcement agency took the vehicle into custody. If
a registered owner or the person in possession of the vehicle when it is taken
into custody is charged with a felony or misdemeanor but is not convicted, the
registered owner shall be entitled to a refund of the storage fees.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.01)
   (E)   (1)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to remove an abandoned or
trespassing vehicle from private property upon the request of the private
property owner on whose property the vehicle is located and upon information
indicating that the vehicle is an abandoned or trespassing vehicle. After
removal, the law enforcement agency with custody of the vehicle shall follow
the procedures in Neb. RS 60-1902 and 60-1903.
      (2)   A law enforcement agency is authorized to contact a private towing
service in order to remove an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from private
property upon the request of the private property owner on whose property the
vehicle is located and upon information indicating that the vehicle is an
abandoned or trespassing vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division (E)
(2) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the private
towing service which towed the vehicle.
      (3)   A private property owner is authorized to remove or cause the
removal of an abandoned or trespassing vehicle from such property and may
contact a private towing service for such removal. A private towing service
that tows the vehicle shall notify, within 24 hours, the designated law
enforcement agency in the jurisdiction from which the vehicle is removed and
provide the registration plate number, the vehicle identification number, if
available, the make, model and color of the vehicle, and the name of the
private towing service and the location, if applicable, where the private
towing service is storing the vehicle. A vehicle towed away under this division
(E)(3) is subject to Neb. RS 52-601.01 through 52-605 and 60-2410 by the
private towing service that towed the vehicle.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, a TRESPASSING VEHICLE is a vehicle
that is parked without permission on private property that is not typically
made available for public parking.
(Neb. RS 60-1903.02)
   (F)   If a state agency caused an abandoned vehicle described in divisions
(A)(a)5. or (A)(b)4. above to be removed from public property in this city, the
state agency shall be entitled to custody of the vehicle. If a state agency
caused an abandoned vehicle described in divisions (A)(a)1., (A)(a)2., (A)(a)3.
or (A)(a)4. or (A)(b)1., (A)(b)2. or (A)(b)3. above to be removed from public
property in this city, the state agency shall deliver the vehicle to the city
which shall have custody.
(Neb. RS 60-1904)
   (G)   Any proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle in the city’s
custody less any expenses incurred by the city shall be held by the city
without interest, for the benefit of the owner or lienholders of such vehicle
for a period of two years. If not claimed within such two-year period, the
proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
(Neb. RS 60-1905)
   (H)   Neither the owner, owner’s agent, owner’s employee, lessee, nor
occupant of the premises from which any abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the
city, shall be liable for any loss or damage to such vehicle which occurs
during its removal or while in the possession of the city or its contractual
agent, while in the possession of a private towing service, or as a result of
any subsequent disposition.
(Neb. RS 60-1906)
   (H)   No person shall cause any vehicle to be an abandoned vehicle as
described in divisions (A)(a)1., (A)(a)2., (A)(a)3. or (A)(a)4. or (A)(b)1.,
(A)(b)2. or (A)(b)3. above.
(Neb. RS 60-1907)
   (I)   No person other than one authorized by the city or appropriate state
agency shall destroy, deface or remove any part of a vehicle which is left
unattended on a highway or other public place without license plates affixed or
which is abandoned. Anyone violating this division (I) shall be guilty of an
offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1908)
   (J)   The last-registered owner of an abandoned vehicle shall be liable to
the city for the costs of removal and storage of such vehicle.
(Neb. RS 60-1909)
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offense.
(Neb. RS 60-1911)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Registration Act, see Neb. RS 60-301
§ 133.36 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or be in the actual
physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   While under the influence of alcoholic liquor or of any drug;
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of ten-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of his or her blood;
or
      (3)   When such person has a concentration of ten-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per two hundred ten liters of his or her breath.
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in this state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or urine for
purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the presence of drugs in
such blood, breath or urine.
   (C)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the municipality
may require any person arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to
have been committed while the person was driving or was in actual physical
control of a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
drugs to submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath or
urine for the purpose of determining the concentration of alcohol or the
presence of drugs in such blood, breath or urine when the officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that such person was driving or was in the actual
physical control of a motor vehicle in the municipality while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor or drugs in violation of this section.
   (D)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests for
violation of traffic laws of the state or of ordinances of the municipality may
require any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the municipality to submit to a preliminary test of his or her
breath for alcohol concentration if the officer has reasonable grounds to
believe that such person has alcohol in his or her body, has committed a moving
traffic violation or has been involved in a traffic accident. Any person who
refuses to submit to such preliminary breath test or whose preliminary breath
test results indicated an alcohol concentration in violation of division (A)
above shall be placed under arrest. Any person who refuses to submit to such
preliminary breath test shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood, breath or urine for a determination of the concentration
of alcohol or the presence of drugs. If the chemical test discloses the
presence of a concentration of alcohol in violation of division (A) above, or
if any person refuses to submit to such test or tests required pursuant to this
section, such person shall be subject to the administrative revocation
procedures provided in Neb. RS 60-6,205 through 60-6,208 and shall be guilty of
an offense.
   (F)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests, pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Prior Code, 6-343) (Ord. 671, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,196, 60-6,197 and 60-6,203
§ 133.37 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE; PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to operate
or be in the actual physical control of any motor vehicle:
      (1)   When such person has a concentration of two-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of his or her blood but less
than the concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(b); or
      (2)   When such person has a concentration of two-hundredths of one gram
or more by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of his or her breath but less than
the concentration prescribed under Neb. RS 60-6,196(1)(c).
   (B)   Any person who operates or has in his or her actual physical control a
motor vehicle in the state shall be deemed to have given his or her consent to
submit to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the
purposes of determining the concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath.
   (C)   (1)   Any peace officer who has been duly authorized to make arrests
for violations of traffic laws of this state or of ordinances of the
municipality may require any person under 21 years of age to submit to a
chemical test or tests of his or her blood or breath for the purpose of
determining the concentration of alcohol in such blood or breath when the
officer has probable cause to believe that such person was driving or was in
actual physical control of a motor vehicle in the municipality in violation of
this section.
      (2)   Such peace officer may require such person to submit to a
preliminary breath test. Any person who refuses to submit to such preliminary
breath test or whose preliminary breath test results indicate an alcohol
concentration in violation of this section shall be placed under arrest.
   (D)   (1)   Any person arrested as provided in this section may, upon the
direction of a peace officer, be required to submit to a chemical test or tests
of his or her blood or breath for a determination of the concentration of
alcohol.
      (2)   If the chemical test discloses the presence of a concentration of
alcohol in violation of this section, or such person refuses to submit to such
test or tests required pursuant to this section shall be guilty of an offense.
   (E)   Upon the conviction of any person for the violation of this section,
there shall be assessed as part of the court costs the fee charged by any
physician or any agency administering tests pursuant to a permit issued in
accordance with Neb. RS 60-6,201, for the test administered and the analysis
thereof if such test was actually made.
(Prior Code, § 6-344) (Ord. 672, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 782, passed 4-6-1999)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,211.01, 60-6,211.02 and 60-6,203
WEAPONS OFFENSES
§ 133.50 SLINGSHOTS, AIR GUNS, BB GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a slingshot, air gun, BB
gun or the like loaded with rock or other dangerous missiles at any time or
under any circumstances within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.51 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person who
carries a weapon or weapons concealed on or about his or her person, such as a
revolver, pistol, bowie knife, dirk or knife with a dirk blade attachment,
brass or iron knuckles or any other deadly weapon, commits the offense of
carrying a concealed weapon.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense that the defendant was engaged in any
lawful business, calling or employment at the time he or she was carrying any
weapon or weapons and the circumstances in which such person was placed at the
time were such as to justify a prudent person in carrying the weapon or weapons
for the defense of his or her person, property or family.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person who is the holder of a valid
permit issued under the Concealed Handgun Permit Act if the concealed weapon
the defendant is carrying is a handgun defined in Neb. RS 69-2429.
(Prior Code, § 6-308)
Statutory reference:
Concealed Handgun Permit Act, see Neb. RS 69-2427 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1202
§ 133.52 DISCHARGING A FIREARM OR WEAPON FROM ANY PUBLIC HIGHWAY, ROAD OR
BRIDGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or weapon using
any form of compressed gas as a propellant from any public highway, road or
bridge in this state.
(Prior Code, § 6-333) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1335
§ 133.53 SHOOTING HIGHWAY SIGNS, MARKERS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously shoot upon
the public highway and injure, deface, damage or destroy any signs, monuments,
road markers, traffic control or surveillance devices or other public notices
lawfully placed upon said highways.
(Prior Code, § 6-338) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 60-6,130(1)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Prostitution
   
134.02   Keeping a place of prostitution
   
134.03   Debauching a minor
   
134.04   Indecency with an animal
   
134.05   Stalking
   
134.06   Sexual predator residency restrictions
§ 134.01 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, any person who performs,
offers or agrees to perform any act of sexual contact or sexual penetration, as
those terms are defined in Neb. RS 28-318, with any person not his or her
spouse, in exchange for money or other thing of value, commits the offense of
prostitution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
such person was a trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830.
   (C)   If the law enforcement officer determines, after a reasonable
detention for investigative purposes, that a person suspected of or charged
with a violation of division (A) above is:
      (1)   A person engaging in those acts as a direct result of being a
trafficking victim as defined in Neb. RS 28-830, such person shall be immune
from prosecution for a prostitution offense; or
      (2)   A person under 18 years of age, such person shall be immune from
prosecution for a prostitution offense under this section and shall be subject
to temporary custody under Neb. RS 43-248 and further disposition under the
State Juvenile Code. A law enforcement officer who takes a person under 18
years of age into custody under this section shall immediately report an
allegation of a violation of Neb. RS 28-831 to the Department of Health and
Human Services which shall commence an investigation within 24 hours under the
Child Protection and Family Safety Act, being Neb. RS 28-710 et seq.
(Neb. RS 28-801) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION.
   Any person who has or exercises control over the use of any place which
offers seclusion or shelter for the practice of prostitution and who knowingly
grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose of prostitution commits
the offense of keeping a place of prostitution.
(Prior Code, § 6-323) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-804
§ 134.03 DEBAUCHING A MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, not a minor, to debauch or deprave the
morals of any boy or girl under the age of 17 years by:
   (A)   Lewdly inducing such boy or girl carnally to know any other person;
   (B)   Soliciting any such boy or girl to visit a house of prostitution or
other place where prostitution, debauchery or other immoral practices are
permitted or encouraged, for the purpose of prostitution or sexual penetration;
   (C)   Arranging or assisting in arranging any meeting for such purpose
between any such boy or girl and any female or male of dissolute character or
any inmate of any place where prostitution, debauchery or other immoral
practices are permitted or encouraged; or
   (D)   Arranging or aiding or assisting in arranging any meeting between any
such boy or girl and any other person for the purpose of sexual penetration.
(Prior Code, § 6-324) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-805
§ 134.04 INDECENCY WITH AN ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to subject an animal to sexual
penetration as defined in Neb. RS 28-318(6).
(Prior Code, § 6-325) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-1003
§ 134.05 STALKING.
   (A)   Any person who willfully harasses another person or a family or
household member of such person with the intent to injure, terrify, threaten or
intimidate commits the offense of stalking.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COURSE OF CONDUCT. A pattern of conduct composed of a series of acts over
a period of time, however short, evincing a continuity of purpose, including a
series of acts of following, detaining, restraining the personal liberty of or
stalking the person, or telephoning, contacting or otherwise communicating with
the person.
      DATING RELATIONSHIP. Frequent, intimate associations primarily
characterized by the expectation of affectional or sexual involvement but does
not include a casual relationship or an ordinary association between persons in
a business or social context.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. A spouse or former spouse of the victim,
children of the victim, a person presently residing with the victim or who has
resided with the victim in the past, a person who had a child in common with
the victim, other persons related to the victim by consanguinity or affinity or
any person presently involved in a dating relationship with the victim or who
has been involved in a dating relationship with the victim.
      HARASS. To engage in a knowing and willful course of conduct directed at
a specific person which seriously terrifies, threatens or intimidates the
person and which serves no legitimate purpose.
(Prior Code, § 6-345) (Ord. 673, passed 10-4-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 28-311.02 and 28-311.03
§ 134.06 SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   The state legislature has found that certain sex offenders present
a high risk to commit repeat offenses and has enabled municipalities to
restrict such persons place of residency as provided in the Sexual Predator
Residency Restriction Act, being Neb. RS 29-4015 et seq.
      (2)   Sex offenders who prey on children and who are high risks to repeat
such acts present an extreme threat to public safety. The cost of sex offender
victimization to these children and to society at large, while incalculable, is
exorbitant.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating certain areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers where certain sexual predators
cannot reside.
(Prior Code, § 6-346)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed pursuant to the Child Care
Licensing Act, being Neb. RS 71-1908 et seq.
      RESIDE. To sleep, live or dwell at a place, which may include more than
one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      RESIDENCE. A place where an individual sleeps, lives or dwells, which may
include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory.
      SCHOOL. A public, private, denominational or parochial school which meets
the requirements for state accreditation or approval.
      SEX OFFENDER. An individual who has been convicted of a crime listed in
Neb. RS 29-4003 and who is required to register as a sex offender pursuant to
the Sex Offender Registration Act, being Neb. RS 29-4001 et seq.
      SEXUAL PREDATOR. An individual who is required to register under the Sex
Offender Registration Act, who has been classified as Level 3 because of a high
risk of recidivism, as determined by the State Patrol under Neb. RS 29-4013,
and who has victimized a person 18 years of age or younger.
(Prior Code, § 6-347)
   (C)   Violations; exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any sexual
predator to reside within 500 feet from a school or child care facility.
      (2)   Measure of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the distance shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the residence to the nearest outer
boundary line of the school or child care facility.
      (3)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished as
provided generally in this code.
      (4)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to a sexual predator who:
         (a)   Resides within a prison or correctional or treatment facility
operated by the state or a political subdivision;
         (b)   Established a residence before July 1, 2006, and has not moved
from that residence; or
         (c)   Established a residence after July 1, 2006, and the school or
child care facility triggering the restriction was established after the
initial date of the sexual predator’s residence at that location.
(Prior Code, § 6-348)
(Ord. 857, passed 6-13-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES
      
152.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
153.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits and Regulations
   
150.001   Requirement
   
150.002   Duplicate to County Assessor
   
150.003   Fees; application to zoning jurisdiction
   
150.004   Excavations and exposures; barricades and lights
Moving of Buildings
   
150.015   Regulations
   
150.016   Deposit
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.030   Definition
   
150.031   Prohibitions
   
150.032   Determination; notice
   
150.033   Appeal; demolition; duty to inform county
   
150.034   Emergency
   
150.035   Special assessments
Building Inspector
   
150.050   Power and authority
   
150.051   Right of entry
   
150.052   Time of inspection
   
150.053   Appeal from decision
Building Codes
   
150.065   Building Code
   
150.066   Plumbing Code
   
150.067   Electrical Code
Wells
   
150.080   Permit
   
150.081   Location and usage
   
150.082   Cross-connections prohibited
   
150.083   Registration
   
150.084   Discontinuance by Council
Billboards and Signs
   
150.095   Billboards; permits required
   
150.096   Signs; permits required
 
   
150.999   Penalty
BUILDING PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.001 REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to commence or proceed to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish or relocate any
building or dwelling, or cause the same to be done, shall file with the
Utilities Superintendent an application for a building permit. The application
shall be in writing on a form to be furnished by the Utilities Superintendent
for that purpose. Every such application shall set forth the legal description
of the land upon which the construction, relocation or demolition is to take
place, the nature of the use or occupancy, the principal dimensions, the
estimated cost, the names of the owner, architect and contractor and such other
information as may be requested thereon. Applications shall be accompanied by
one set of building plans. If a variance is required, appeal must be made to
the Board of Adjustment. The Utilities Superintendent will be responsible for
the issuing of building permits, collection of permit fees and ensuring the
repairing, remodeling or new construction is in compliance with zoning district
regulations and all adopted city building and housing codes.
   (B)   Fees payable upon a permit granted for the work listed as above set
forth shall be based on the estimated costs as follows.
 
New Construction, Remodeling and Repair
$1 to $5,000       $10
$5,001 to $25,000  $25
$25,001 to $50,000 $50
$50,001 and more   $100
 
   (C)   Permits are also required on the following items, and the fees for
each are as follows.
 
Curb cut                        No charge
Demolition permits              $10
Driveway construction or repair See table above
Fences                          See table above
Moving permits                  $25
Repair of foundations           $10
 
   (D)   The following repairs and remodeling to structures are exempt from
obtaining permits and payment of any fees therefor: replacing of storm doors or
windows (unless structure is altered); replacing gutters or shingles; painting;
wallpapering; carpeting; and re-roofing of structures; provided, however, that
if a flat roof is being pitched, then a permit is required and payment of fees
required in accordance with the above schedule of fees based on estimated costs
as set forth above.
(Prior Code, § 9-201) (Ord. 789, passed 10-10-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-130 through 17-132, 17-550 and 17-1001
§ 150.002 DUPLICATE TO COUNTY ASSESSOR.
   Whenever a building permit is issued for the erection, alteration or repair
of any building within the city’s corporate limits or extraterritorial zoning
jurisdiction, if the improvement is $2,500 or more, a duplicate of the permit
shall be issued to the County Assessor.
(Neb. RS 18-1743)
§ 150.003 FEES; APPLICATION TO ZONING JURISDICTION.
   The building permit fees provided for in §
150.001 shall apply and be controlling throughout the municipality and
throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-203) (Ord. 789, passed 10-10-1999)
§ 150.004 EXCAVATIONS AND EXPOSURES; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any owner, tenant or lessee causing the construction, demolition or moving
of any building or improvement within the city shall protect all excavations,
exposures, open basements, building materials and debris by suitable barricades
or guards by day and by warning lights at night. The failure, neglect or
refusal of the owner, tenant or lessee to erect and maintain such protections
shall constitute a violation of this section, and the Building Inspector or
other city law enforcement authority may stop all work upon the buildings and
improvements until suitable protections are erected and maintained in the
required manner.
Penalty, see §
150.999
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.015 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to move any
building or structure within the city without a written permit to do so.
Application may be made to the City Clerk and shall include the present and
future location of the building to be moved, the proposed route, the equipment
to be used and such other information as the City Council may require. The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by the County
Treasurer to the effect that all the provisions regulating the moving of
buildings have been complied with on the part of the owner of the real estate
upon which the building is presently located.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall refer the application to the City Council or its
designee for approval of the proposed route over which the building is to be
moved. Upon approval, the City Clerk shall issue the permit, provided that a
good and sufficient corporate surety bond, check or cash in an amount set by
motion of the City Council and conditioned upon moving the building without
doing damage to any private or city property is filed with the City Clerk prior
to the granting of any permit.
   (C)   No moving permit shall be required to move a building that is ten feet
wide or less, and 20 feet long or less, and when in a position to move, 15 feet
high or less.
   (D)   In the event it will be necessary for any licensed building mover to
interfere with the telephone or telegraph poles and wires, or a gas line, the
company or companies owning, using or operating the poles, wires or line shall,
upon proper notice of at least 24 hours, be present and assist by disconnecting
the poles, wires or line relative to the building moving operation. All expense
of the disconnection, removal or related work shall be paid in advance by the
licensee unless the disconnection or work is furnished on different terms as
provided in the company’s franchise.
   (E)   Whenever the moving of any building necessitates interference with a
water main, sewer main, pipes or wire belonging to the city, notice in writing
of the time and route of the building moving operation shall be given to the
various officials in charge of the city utility departments, who shall proceed
in behalf of the city and at the expense of the mover to make such
disconnections and do such work as is necessary.
Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate moving of buildings, see Neb. RS 17-142
§ 150.016 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   At such time as the building moving has been completed, the Building
Inspector or other designated official shall inspect the premises and report to
the City Clerk as to the extent of damages, if any, resulting from the
relocation and whether any city laws have been violated during the operation.
   (B)   Upon a satisfactory report from the Building Inspector or other
designated official, the City Clerk shall return the corporate surety bond,
cash or check deposited by the applicant. In the event the basement, foundation
or portion thereof is not properly filled, covered or in a clean and sanitary
condition, the City Council may apply the money deposited for the purpose of
defraying the expense of correcting the conditions.
   (C)   If the expense of correcting the hazardous condition is greater than
the amount of the deposit set by the City Council, the City Council may recover
the excess expense by civil suit or otherwise as prescribed by law.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.030 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Includes any building, shed, fence or other human-made
structure:
         (a)   Which is dangerous to the public health because of its condition
and which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of
the occupants of it or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Which because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair
or any other cause is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a
fire hazard; or
         (c)   Which by reason of faulty construction or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by the collapse or fall of all or any part of
the structure.
   (B)   Any such unsafe building in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.031 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any unsafe
building in the city, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in an
unsafe condition or to occupy the building or permit it to be occupied while it
is in an unsafe condition.
Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prevent and abate nuisances, see Neb. RS 18-1720
§ 150.032 DETERMINATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the City Council or its designee has made a
determination that a building or other structure in the city is an unsafe
building, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to post the property
accordingly and to file a copy of such determination or resolution in the
office of the County Register of Deeds to be recorded.
(Neb. RS 18-1722.01)
      (2)   The Clerk shall also serve written notice upon the owner and any
occupant of the building or other structure by certified mail or personal
service.
   (B)   This notice shall state that the building has been declared to be in
an unsafe condition, that the dangerous condition must be removed or remedied
by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it, and that the
condition must be remedied within 60 days from the date of receipt. The notice
may be in the following terms:
 
“To                                                       (owner-occupant of premises), of the premises known and described as
                                  .
 
“You are hereby notified that                                     (describe building) on the premises above mentioned has been
determined to be an unsafe building and a nuisance after inspection by                                      . The causes for this
decision are                                       (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
 
“You must remedy this condition or demolish the building within 60 days from the date of receipt of this notice or the city will
proceed to do so. Appeal of this determination may be made to the City Council, acting as the Board of Appeals, by filing with the
City Clerk within ten days from the date of receipt of this notice a request for a hearing.”
 
   (C)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied within 60 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, or taken an appeal from the
determination that a dangerous building exists within ten days from the time
when this notice is served upon that person by personal service or certified
mail, the Building Inspector or other designated official may, upon orders of
the City Council, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the unsafe
building.
§ 150.033 APPEAL; DEMOLITION; DUTY TO INFORM COUNTY.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice to repair or demolish the building, the
owner of the building, within the time stipulated, may in writing to the City
Clerk request a hearing before the City Council, sitting as the Board of
Appeals, to present reasons why the building should not be repaired or
demolished. The City Council shall grant such a hearing within ten days from
the date of receiving the request. A written notice of the City Council’s
decision following the hearing shall be sent to the property owner by certified
mail.
   (B)   If the City Council rejects the appeal, the owner shall have 60 days
from the sending of the decision to begin repair or demolition and removal. If
after the 60-day period the owner has not begun work, the City Council shall
proceed to cause the work to be done, except that the property owner may appeal
the decision to the appropriate court for adjudication, during which
proceedings the decision of the City Council shall be stayed.
   (C)   Any city police officer or member of the City Council shall at once
inform the County Treasurer of the removal or demolition of or a levy of
attachment upon any item of real property known to him or her.
(Neb. RS 77-1725.01)
§ 150.034 EMERGENCY.
   Where any unsafe building or structure poses an immediate danger to the
health, safety or general welfare of any person or persons and the owner fails
to remedy the situation in a reasonable time after notice to do so, the city
may summarily repair or demolish and remove that building or structure.
§ 150.035 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   In case the owner of any building or structure shall fail, neglect or
refuse to comply with notice by or on behalf of the municipality to repair,
rehabilitate or demolish and remove a building or structure which is unsafe and
a public nuisance, the municipality may proceed with the work specified in the
notice to the property owner.
   (B)   A statement of the cost of such work shall be transmitted to the
governing body, which is authorized to:
      (1)   Levy the cost as a special assessment against the lot or real
estate upon which the building or structure is located, such special assessment
shall be a lien on the real estate and collected in the manner provided for
special assessments; or
      (2)   Collect the cost from the owner of the building or structure and
enforce the collection by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-406) (Ord. 589, passed 6-4-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720, 18-1722 and 18-1722.01
BUILDING INSPECTOR
§ 150.050 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   The Building Inspector shall be the city official who shall have the duty of
enforcing all city building and housing regulations, if any. He or she shall
inspect all buildings repaired, altered, built or moved in the city as often as
necessary to ensure compliance with all city ordinances. He or she shall have
the power and authority to order, at the direction of the City Council, all
work stopped on any construction, alteration or relocation which violates any
provisions prescribed in any city building and housing regulations. He or she
shall, at the direction of the City Council, issue permission to continue any
construction, alteration or relocation when the City Council is satisfied that
no provision will be violated. If the stop order is an oral one, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one hour. This written order may be
served by any city officer. In the event that the city has building and housing
regulations and the Mayor fails to appoint a Building Inspector, the chief city
law enforcement officer shall be the Building Inspector ex officio.
§ 150.051 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to allow the Building
Inspector entry into any building or structure where the work of construction,
alteration, repair or relocation is taking place, for the purpose of making
official inspections at any reasonable hour.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.052 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his or
her agent, shall make the following inspections of the building or structure
and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall
notify the permit holder or his or her agent that the work fails to comply with
the requirements of the city code: Foundation inspection shall be made after
trenches are excavated and the necessary forms erected; frame inspection shall
be made after the roof, framing, fire-blocking and backing is in place and all
pipes, chimneys and vents are complete; and final inspection shall be made
after the building is completed and ready for occupancy. It shall be unlawful
for any person to do work or cause work to be done beyond the point indicated
in each successive inspection without the written approval of the Building
Inspector.
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.053 APPEAL FROM DECISION.
   In the event it is claimed that the true intent and meaning of any city
building or housing regulation has been wrongly interpreted by the Building
Inspector, that the time allowed for compliance with any order of the Building
Inspector is too short, or that conditions peculiar to a particular building
make it unreasonably difficult to meet the literal requirements prescribed by
the regulation and by the Building Inspector, the owner, his or her agent or
the occupant may file a notice of appeal within ten days after the decision or
order of the Building Inspector has been made. The City Council shall hear all
appeals and shall have the power and authority, when appealed to, to modify the
decision or order of the Building Inspector. Such a decision shall be final,
subject only to any remedy which the aggrieved person may have at law or
equity. Applications for review shall be in writing and shall state the reasons
why the variance should be made. A variance shall be granted only where it is
evident that reasonable safety and sanitation is assured and may include
conditions not generally specified by the building or housing regulation to
achieve that end. A copy of any variance so granted shall be sent to both the
Building Inspector and the applicant.
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.065 BUILDING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable design, methods of construction and uses of materials in buildings
hereafter erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, relocated and
converted, the Uniform Building Code, 1985 Edition, recommended by the
International Conference of Building Officials and printed in book or pamphlet
form is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all amended editions as
though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not conflict with the
statutes of the state. One copy of the Building Code is on file at the office
of the Municipal Clerk and is available for public inspection at any reasonable
time. The provisions of the Building Code shall be controlling throughout the
municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-501) (Ord. 508, passed 12-2-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902 and 19-922
§ 150.066 PLUMBING CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and stable installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of plumbing and heating, the National Plumbing Code, 1955 Edition,
published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and printed in book
or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by reference in addition to all
amended editions as though printed in full herein insofar as said code does not
conflict with the statutes of the state. One copy of the Plumbing Code is on
file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and is available for public
inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the Plumbing Code shall be
controlling throughout the municipality and throughout its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-502)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902 and 19-922
§ 150.067 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   To provide certain minimum standards, provisions and requirements for safe
and fireproof installation, methods of connection and uses of materials in the
installation of electrical wiring and appliances, the National Electrical Code,
1965 Edition, as recommended and published by the National Fire Prevention
Association and printed in book or pamphlet form, is hereby incorporated by
reference in addition to all amended editions as though printed in full herein
insofar as said Code does not conflict with the statutes of the state. One copy
of the Electrical Code is on file at the office of the Municipal Clerk and is
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. The provisions of the
Electrical Code shall be controlling throughout the municipality and throughout
its zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-503)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1001, 18-132, 19-902 and 19-922
WELLS
§ 150.080 PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dig, drill or
construct a well within the zoning jurisdiction of the city, without having
first obtained a permit therefor from said city. Additionally, if said permit
is granted, before commencing to dig, drill or construct said well, there shall
be filed with the city a written permit granted for said well from the Lower
Big Blue Natural Resources District. The applications for private wells shall
be submitted in writing and shall set forth:
      (1)   The location of proposed well;
      (2)   The intended use of the water;
      (3)   The depth of proposed well;
      (4)   The size and kind of casing to be installed;
      (5)   The pumping equipment;
      (6)   The name, address and license of well driller;
      (7)   The well driller’s certification that design meets State Department
of Health regulations; and
      (8)   That the applicant agrees to apply for a permit for said well from
the Lower Big Blue Natural Resources District.
   (B)   Such application shall be accompanied with an application fee of $25
which shall cover the cost of inspection and study of plans, no part of which
shall be refunded if the application is denied. The provisions of this section
shall apply to test wells.
   (C)   A well drilling log shall be filed with said city on completion of
each well. This log shall contain at a minimum the strata encountered in
drilling, the elevation at which there is a change in strata and the static
water level.
(Prior Code, § 9-601) (Ord. 532, passed 4-5-1988; Ord. 903, passed 6-11-2013)
Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.081 LOCATION AND USAGE.
   No well drilled after the effective date of this regulation shall be located
within 25 feet of any sewer line, private or public. After the effective date
of this regulation no permit will be issued if a septic tank or other
wastewater disposal system not industrial in nature, is used on the premises or
within 300 feet of the proposed well.
(Prior Code, § 9-602) (Ord. 532, passed 4-5-1988) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.082 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No water from any private well shall be plumbed or connected in such a
manner that city water and well water are or can be connected to the same
piping system or appliance either both at the same time, or each separately at
different times. The City Superintendent or his or her designated
representative may enter on to and inspect the owner’s premises, at all
reasonable times when necessary to determine that no such cross-connection or
cross-connections exist. If any cross-connections are found by the City
Superintendent to exist, he or she may order the use of the private well to be
permanently discontinued and/or the system permanently disconnected from the
city water system. The owner, tenant or lessee shall be liable severally and
jointly for all damages to the city water system and users caused by such
cross-connection.
(Prior Code, § 9-603) (Ord. 532, passed 4-5-1988) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.083 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All owners and/or operators of water wells located within the zoning
jurisdiction of the city shall register their wells with said city no later
than 60 days from the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   All registration forms shall be in writing and shall set forth:
      (1)   Location of well;
      (2)   Use of water from well;
      (3)   Depth of well;
      (4)   Size and kind of casing installed;
      (5)   Pumping equipment used; and
      (6)   Sanitary seal description.
   (C)   No well shall be modified in any manner without application for a well
permit. This registration requirement shall apply to all uncapped and unsealed
wells whether they are currently producing water or not.
(Prior Code, § 9-604) (Ord. 532, passed 4-5-1988)
§ 150.084 DISCONTINUANCE BY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the power and authority to refuse to issue well
drilling permits, if it appears that the plan of drilling and construction is
not sound, or the proposed driller does not have proper equipment, or if it
appears that such well may endanger, impair or in any way interfere with the
city water system.
(Prior Code, § 9-605) (Ord. 532, passed 4-5-1988)
BILLBOARDS AND SIGNS
§ 150.095 BILLBOARDS; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Before any person shall be allowed to erect any billboards along any street,
avenue, alley or lane or adjacent thereto, within the corporate limits of the
city, he or she shall secure a permit from the City Council to erect said
billboard or billboards and the same shall be built under the direction of the
Street Commissioner of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-501)
§ 150.096 SIGNS; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to hang any business sign or
advertisement over or in any manner so as to project wholly or partially over
any street or sidewalk in the city, or to suffer or permit any sign owned by
him or her so as to remain except where the following conditions are complied
with.
   (A)   The person desiring to erect or maintain any illuminated or other sign
shall make written application to the City Council which application shall give
full information as to the size, weight and character of the sign, together
with the distance it will project over the sidewalk and shall furnish a drawing
or other data showing the method of securing and fastening the same.
   (B)   If, upon the information and data submitted, the Council shall be
satisfied that such sign will be safe and secure and not a menace to the public
passing along such street or sidewalk where said sign or signs are sought to be
located, it shall, by appropriate motion or resolution, instruct and authorize
the City Clerk to issue a permit therefor.
   (C)   The permit in the possession of the owner of any such sign or signs
shall constitute the only authority for such person to erect or maintain such
sign.
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the Council, any wooden, metal or electric sign
is dangerous and likely to injure the public passing along such street or
sidewalk, it shall direct and authorize an officer designated by the city to
remove such sign forthwith.
(Prior Code, § 10-502) Penalty, see §
150.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-131, 17-555, 69-1701 and 69-1707
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 9-701)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a nuisance exists as defined in this chapter, the
municipality may proceed by a suit in equity to enjoin and abate the same, in
the manner provided by law.
      (2)   Whenever, in any action, it is established that a nuisance exists,
the court may together with the fine or penalty imposed, enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case.
(Prior Code, § 9-702)
(Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1720 and 18-1722
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Location outside of mobile home parks
   
151.03   Copy of state license to be filed with City Clerk
   
151.04   Construction, expansion, remodeling or alterations
   
151.05   Density
   
151.06   Setbacks
   
151.07   Drives
   
151.08   General maintenance and supervision
   
151.09   Inspections
   
151.10   Motor vehicle parking
   
151.11   Duty of attendant and owner
   
151.12   Skirting, stabilizers and anchors
   
151.13   Utility systems
   
151.14   Refuse, garbage and solid waste disposal
   
151.15   Insect, rodent and weed control
   
151.16   Drainage
   
151.17   Nuisance notice
   
151.18   Abandonment
   
151.19   Travel trailers, campers and converted buses
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on its
own chassis, connected to utilities and designed with or without a permanent
foundation for year round living. It may consist of one or more units that can
be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional capacity, or of two
or more units, separately towable but designed to be joined into one integral
unit.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A designated portion of a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home and its accessory buildings or structures for
the exclusive use of the occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which have been so
designated and improved that it contains two or more mobile home lots available
to the general public for the placement thereon of mobile homes for occupancy.
The term MOBILE HOME PARK shall not be construed to include mobile homes,
buildings, tents or other structures temporarily maintained by any individual,
corporation, company or other entity on its own premises and used exclusively
to house its own labor force.
   MOBILE HOME PARK DRIVES. Lanes and roadways within the mobile home park,
privately owned.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling made up of several pieces, consisting of standard
“modules” transported to or constructed at the site and generally not
distinguishable from conventional permanent housing.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock company or association, political subdivision,
governmental agency or other legal entity, including any trustee, receiver,
assignee or other legal representative thereof.
   STREET. Any public street, avenue, road, alley or highway located in the
city and established for the use of vehicles, the boundaries of which are
hereby determined to be the outer boundaries of said street, avenue, road or
alley, as platted and dedicated as shown by the official records of the city
and the county as shown in the office of the County Clerk.
   TRAVEL TRAILER, CAMPER and CONVERTED BUS. Any portable structure or vehicle
supported upon its own axle or axles used or so constructed as to permit its
being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons for a limited
or temporary time, or basically designed for travel or camping purposes,
propelled or drawn by its own or other motive power.
(Prior Code, § 10-401)
§ 151.02 LOCATION OUTSIDE OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   No person shall occupy any mobile home outside an approved mobile home park.
A modular home may be occupied for business or residential use outside a mobile
home park when mounted upon a permanent type foundation and, as such, shall
conform to all applicable requirements of the Building, Electrical, Plumbing
and Zoning Codes and all other applicable codes and ordinances of the city.
Mobile homes may be used as field offices during construction. Mobile homes may
be displayed for sale on approved mobile home sales lots or at mobile home
manufacturing plants, one of which may be used as a sales office only and not a
residential unit.
(Prior Code, § 10-402) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 COPY OF STATE LICENSE TO BE FILED WITH CITY CLERK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, operate, maintain or
permit to be established, operated or maintained upon any property owned or
controlled by such person, a mobile home park within the zoning and planning
jurisdictional boundaries of the city, without having first secured any
required annual license to do so from the State Department of Health. Each such
person shall file with the City Clerk a copy of said state license within 15
days of the issuance thereof by the state.
(Prior Code, § 10-403) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 81-15,280 through 81-15,282
§ 151.04 CONSTRUCTION, EXPANSION, REMODELING OR ALTERATIONS.
   No construction, expansion, remodeling or alteration upon a mobile home park
and the appurtenances thereto shall be permitted unless and until a permit for
same has been obtained from the State Department of Health and said permit has
been filed with the City Clerk. One copy of the final plans and specifications
for the aforesaid construction, expansion, remodeling or alteration of a mobile
home park, as approved by the State Department of Health, shall also be filed
with each of the City Clerk and the City Building Inspector prior to any person
beginning actual work in any of the activities listed herein. No permit is
required for the making of minor repairs or in matters of general maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 10-404) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 DENSITY.
   The density of mobile homes within any mobile home park shall not exceed one
mobile home per 6,400 square feet of the mobile home park site area. Mobile
home lot size need not be uniform, however, the overall density of mobile homes
within the mobile home park, obtained by dividing the total area of said park
by the number of units therein, must equal or exceed the density standard set
forth in this section. The maximum permissible ratio of total mobile home floor
area to its mobile home lot area shall be 0.20.
(Prior Code, § 10-405) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Mobile homes shall set back a minimum of ten feet from the back lot
line.
   (B)   The front setback of a mobile home shall be a minimum of 20 feet from
the curb on interior drives.
   (C)   The side setback of a mobile home shall provide for a minimum distance
of 20 feet between units.
(Prior Code, § 10-406)
§ 151.07 DRIVES.
   (A)   Drives. Interior mobile home park drives shall be improved to a
minimum of 30 feet in width.
(Prior Code, § 10-407)
   (B)   Drive surfacing. Interior drives shall be graded and provided with
adequate drainage and shall at a minimum be graveled or shall be concrete or
asphalt.
(Prior Code, § 10-408)
   (C)   Street maintenance. All mobile home park drives will be maintained by
the owner in a satisfactory and safe condition at all times.
(Prior Code, § 10-409)
   (D)   Drives; access to public street. The interior drive system within the
mobile home park shall connect to the public streets at two or more points and
shall provided access to each mobile home lot.
(Prior Code, § 10-410)
§ 151.08 GENERAL MAINTENANCE AND SUPERVISION.
   All mobile home parks shall be maintained under the management and
supervision of the owner or person in control of the premises on which the same
is located, or a duly authorized representative of such owner, who shall be
personally responsible for the maintenance of the mobile home park in
accordance with all sanitary and fire protection rules and regulations of the
city and the state.
(Prior Code, § 10-411)
§ 151.09 INSPECTIONS.
   All mobile home parks shall be subject to inspections at reasonable times by
duly authorized representatives of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-412)
§ 151.10 MOTOR VEHICLE PARKING.
   Mobile home parks shall provide ample space for the parking of motor
vehicles. Such mobile home parks shall have two motor vehicle parking spaces
for each mobile home lot provided in said mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 10-413)
§ 151.11 DUTY OF ATTENDANT AND OWNER.
   It shall be made the duty of the attendant or person in charge, together
with the owner, to:
   (A)   Keep at all times a register of all occupants of each mobile home lot
which shall be open at reasonable times to inspection by officers of the city,
showing for all such occupants:
      (1)   Names and addresses;
      (2)   Date of entrance and departure; and
      (3)   License numbers of all trailers and towing vehicles, to include
state of issuance.
   (B)   Maintain the camp in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times; or
   (C)   Report to proper authorities any conditions adversely affecting the
health or welfare of the occupants of said mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 10-414)
§ 151.12 SKIRTING, STABILIZERS AND ANCHORS.
   Each mobile home shall be skirted within 45 days after location on its
mobile home lot. Such skirting shall be designed in such manner and of such
material so as not to provide a harborage for rodents and insects or to create
a fire or safety hazard. Each mobile home shall be stabilized by jacks or
stabilizers in order to prevent movement on the springs while the mobile home
is parked and occupied. A minimum of four anchors shall be provided for each
mobile home lot. Each mobile home shall be anchored within ten days after
location on said mobile home lot.
(Prior Code, § 10-415)
§ 151.13 UTILITY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be
provided to each mobile home lot, and facilities shall be provided and properly
maintained for the collection and disposal, or treatment and disposal, of
sewage from all mobile homes and other facilities, if any, within a mobile home
park. The water supply system and sanitary sewer system shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with the current rules, regulations and standards
governing mobile home parks as promulgated, and from time to time hereafter
amended, by the State Department of Health.
   (B)   The electrical system of a mobile home park together with its gas fuel
supply system shall also be designed, constructed and maintained in accordance
with the current rules, regulations and standards governing mobile home parks
as promulgated, and from time to time hereafter amended, by the State
Department of Health.
(Prior Code, § 10-416)
§ 151.14 REFUSE, GARBAGE AND SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The storage, collection, transportation and disposal of refuse,
garbage and solid waste shall be so conducted as to not create unsanitary
conditions, nuisances, rodent harborages, insect breeding areas, accident or
fire hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse, garbage and solid waste shall be stored in flytight,
watertight, rodent-proof containers which shall be maintained in clean
condition and in good repair.
   (C)   Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
properly store all refuse, garbage and solid waste. Whether the licensee of the
mobile home park or each occupant of a mobile home provides the container or
containers depends entirely upon the internal rules of each mobile home park.
   (D)   Concrete platforms, metal racks or holders shall be provided for all
refuse, garbage and solid waste containers and such platforms, racks or holders
shall be so designed and constructed as to prevent the containers from being
tipped, to minimize spillage and to facilitate cleaning around the containers.
   (E)   Refuse, garbage and solid waste shall be removed from the mobile home
park premises at least once weekly. Where adequate refuse, garbage and solid
waste removal service is not available, the licensee of the mobile home park
shall provide such service and the removal and disposal shall conform to local
ordinance, if any is applicable.
   (F)   All refuse, garbage and solid waste shall be collected and transported
in a leak-proof covered vehicle or covered containers.
   (G)   Where adequate city or private solid waste disposal service is not
available, the mobile home park licensee shall provide for disposal of refuse,
garbage and solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 10-417)
§ 151.15 INSECT, RODENT AND WEED CONTROL.
   (A)   Grounds, building and structures shall be maintained free of insect
breeding areas, rodent harborage and infestation of insects, rodents or vermin
that transmit disease to humans.
   (B)   All exterior openings of management buildings or other applicable
structures shall be effectively screened or insects, rodents and vermin
excluded by other effective means.
   (C)   The growth of grass, brush and weeds shall be controlled to prevent
the harborage of noxious insects.
   (D)   Mobile home parks shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of
ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak and other noxious plants detrimental to human
health and well-being.
(Prior Code, § 10-418)
§ 151.16 DRAINAGE.
   All areas of mobile home parks shall be adequately drained to the mobile
home park drives and to dedicated streets or drainage ways.
(Prior Code, § 10-419)
§ 151.17 NUISANCE NOTICE.
   Every mobile home moved on to any plot of land, except within an authorized
mobile home park, or except as provided above, within the city, shall be deemed
a public nuisance. If the owner, after five days written notice served upon him
or her, in person or by certified mail, shall fail to abate the nuisance, by
removal of the mobile home, trailer or camper, the city may proceed with
procedures and proceedings for the abatement of said nuisance as provided
elsewhere in this code for the removal of public nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 10-420)
§ 151.18 ABANDONMENT.
   Whenever any plot of land, within the city, shall cease to be occupied by a
mobile home for a period of 30 days, the right of occupancy of said plot by a
mobile home shall cease and shall be considered an abandonment of said plot for
the occupancy of same by a mobile home, and said plot shall not be reoccupied
by a mobile home except as herein provided as a mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 10-421)
§ 151.19 TRAVEL TRAILERS, CAMPERS AND CONVERTED BUSES.
   It shall be lawful for any person to store or otherwise keep on any premises
travel trailers, campers or converted buses propelled or drawn by its own or
other motive power, upon any area; provided, that said trailer, camper or
converted bus, be stored as near as possible to the rear of said premises. It
further shall be lawful for any person to keep and maintain a travel trailer,
camper, trailer, converted bus or mobile home propelled or drawn by its own or
other motive power, upon any premises to be used for occupants as dwelling or
sleeping space for any period not to exceed two weeks in duration. Any travel
trailer, camper, trailer, converted bus or mobile home, propelled or drawn by
its own or other motive power, so temporarily placed, shall be placed upon said
premises or portion thereof as far away as possible from the street abutting
said premises.
(Prior Code, § 10-422) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
City Property
   
152.001   Definitions
   
152.002   Special improvement district; assessment and creation
   
152.003   Improvement district; land adjacent
   
152.004   Maintenance and control
   
152.005   Permitted use of public street space
   
152.006   Poles, wires and pipe lines
   
152.007   Dangerous stairways and entrances
   
152.008   Prohibited obstructions
   
152.009   Trees in sidewalk space
   
152.010   Overhanging branches
   
152.011   Signs and canopies
   
152.012   Cutting into paving, curb or sidewalk
   
152.013   Heavy equipment
Sale and Acquisition of Property; Public Works
   
152.025   Sale and conveyance; real and personal property
   
152.026   Acquisition or construction of property; election requirements
   
152.027   Acquisition of real property generally
   
152.028   Acquisition of real property; appraisal
Sidewalks
   
152.040   Requirement to keep clean
   
152.041   Use of space beneath
   
152.042   Demolition, removal and construction by owner
   
152.043   Construction and repair at city direction
   
152.044   Municipal construction
   
152.045   Construction by petition
Streets and Alleys
   
152.060   Opening, widening, improving or vacating
   
152.061   Vacating public ways
   
152.062   Crossings
   
152.063   Names and numbers
   
152.064   Driveway approaches
   
152.065   Excavations
   
152.066   Driving stakes
   
152.067   Mixing concrete
   
152.068   Harmful liquids
   
152.069   Construction assessment
   
152.070   Improvement districts; objections
   
152.071   Improvement of streets on corporate limits
   
152.072   Improvement of main thoroughfares
   
152.073   Petition for improvements
   
152.074   Deferral from special assessments
 
   
152.999   Penalty
CITY PROPERTY
§ 152.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The portion of a street between curb lines and adjacent
property lines.
   STREET COMMISSIONER. The city official with general charge, direction and
control of streets and sidewalks. If one official is responsible for streets
and another official is responsible for sidewalks, STREET COMMISSIONER shall
mean whichever one is appropriate in the context the term is used.
§ 152.002 SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; ASSESSMENT AND CREATION.
   (A)   The municipality’s governing body may by ordinance create a special
improvement district for the purpose of replacing, reconstructing or repairing
an existing water line, sewer line or any other such improvement.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431, the
governing body shall have power to assess, to the extent of such benefits, the
costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited
thereby, whether or not such properties were previously assessed for the same
general purpose.
      (2)   In creating such special improvement district, the governing body
shall follow procedures applicable to the creation and assessment of the same
type of improvement district as otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8-111) (Ord. 524, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1751
§ 152.003 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT; LAND ADJACENT.
   Supplemental to any existing law on the subject, a municipality may include
land adjacent to such municipality when creating an improvement as a sewer,
water, water extension or sanitary sewer extension district. The governing body
shall have power to assess, to the extent of special benefits, the costs of
such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited thereby,
except as provided in §
152.074.
(Prior Code, § 8-112) (Ord. 525, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2427
§ 152.004 MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL.
   The governing body shall have the care, supervision and control of all
public highways, bridges, streets, alleys, public squares and commons within
the municipality and shall cause the same to be kept open and in repair as set
forth herein and free from nuisances. The cost of repair and maintenance of
alleys shall be the sole responsibility of the property owners whose property
is adjacent to, abutting upon or served by the alley or alleys in question, and
said costs and expenses of improvements may be assessed upon the lots and
pieces of ground adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefitting from said
alley, as set forth in §§
152.060 through
152.069.
(Prior Code, § 8-102) (Ord. 933, passed 11-14-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 152.005 PERMITTED USE OF PUBLIC STREET SPACE.
   Any person engaged in the erection, construction, reconstruction, wrecking
or repairing of any building, or the construction or repair of a sidewalk along
any street, may occupy the public street space with the building material and
equipment as long as is necessary if such person makes application to and
receives a permit to do so in writing from the Street Commissioner. No permit
shall authorize the occupancy of more than one-third of the roadway of the
public space adjacent to the real estate on which the building or sidewalk is
to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, wrecked or repaired. A suitable
passageway for pedestrians shall be maintained within the public space included
in the permit, which passageway shall be protected and lighted in the manner
required by the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.006 POLES, WIRES AND PIPE LINES.
   (A)   Poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other appurtenances
of public service companies shall be located or erected over, upon or under the
streets, alleys and common grounds of the city. Application for location of
such appurtenances shall be made to the City Council in writing. Approval by
the Council shall be issued in writing. Any public service company granted a
right-of-way for the erection and maintenance of poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances shall at all times erect and locate
their appurtenances at such places and in such manner as shall be designated by
the Council.
   (B)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and other
appurtenances shall be removed or relocated by the companies at their own
expense when requested to do so by the Council. Any such removal or relocation
shall be ordered by resolution of the Council and the City Clerk shall notify
any and all companies affected. The companies shall, within 24 hours after
receiving notice, at their own expense, cause the poles, wires, conduits, gas
mains, pipe lines or other appurtenances to be removed or relocated. The
Council shall designate another location as closely as possible where the
appurtenances may be reset or placed.
   (C)   All poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines or other
appurtenances shall be reset, placed or erected in such a manner that they will
not interfere with the water system; the sewerage system; any poles, wires,
conduits, mains, lines or other appurtenances of any public utility; any
adjacent buildings; or travel on the public ways and property. Whenever
possible, all poles, wires, conduits, gas mains, pipe lines and appurtenances
shall be confined to the alleys of the city.
§ 152.007 DANGEROUS STAIRWAYS AND ENTRANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any stairway,
open cellarway, open basement way or open entrance thereto in or adjacent to
any sidewalk, pavement or street, and any such entrance is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, except that all existing stairways, open cellarways, open
basement ways or open entrances thereto in or adjacent to sidewalks, pavements
or streets may be permitted to remain from and after the adoption of this
prohibition if the person owning or using the opening in the sidewalk, pavement
or street satisfies the Street Commissioner that the opening is properly
protected by a balustrade, or coping of durable material, and furnishes the
city with a bond in the amount set by the City Council for the benefit of any
person who might suffer an injury or damage by reason of the use of the
stairway, cellarway, basement way or entrance.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.008 PROHIBITED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encumber, by
fences, gates, buildings, structures or otherwise, any of the streets, alleys
or sidewalks.
   (B)   The public ways and property shall be considered to be obstructed when
the owner or occupant of the adjacent property permits or suffers to remain on
any premises owned or controlled by him or her any hedge, shrubbery, bush or
similar growth within two feet adjacent to the lot line, whether there is a
sidewalk abutting or adjoining the premises or not. It shall be the duty of
owners and occupants to at all times keep trimmed and pruned all such similar
growth.
   (C)   Trees and shrubs growing upon the lot line partially on public ground
and partially upon the abutting property, or wholly upon the abutting property,
and interfering with the use, making or construction of any public improvement
or so that the roots thereof interfere with any utility wire or pipe shall be
deemed an obstruction. Such trees and shrubs and their roots may be removed by
the city at the expense of the owner of the property upon which the trees or
shrubs are partially or wholly located if the owner fails or neglects, after
notice, to do so.
   (D)   When any obstruction described in this section is determined to exist,
the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to
the sidewalk space as provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.009 TREES IN SIDEWALK SPACE.
   (A)   No person shall plant any tree or allow any tree to grow within the
sidewalk space without first making a written or verbal application to and
receiving a written permit from the Street Commissioner upon payment of the
fee, if any, established by the City Council.
   (B)   Any tree planted within the sidewalk space after the adoption of this
prohibition shall be deemed to be unlawfully planted and growing and may be
determined to be a nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
apply to any trees growing within the sidewalk space prior to the adoption of
this prohibition.
   (C)   When any such tree is determined to be a nuisance, the city may
proceed against the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the sidewalk
space as provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.010 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot, piece or parcel of ground abutting
or adjacent to any street or sidewalk over which there extend the branches of
trees shall at all times keep the branches or limbs thereof trimmed to the
height of at least eight feet above the surface of the walk and at least 14
feet above the surface of the street or to the heights otherwise specified by
the City Council.
   (B)   Whenever the branches or limbs of any tree extend over streets or
sidewalks contrary to such provisions so as to interfere with the lighting of
the street from street lights or with the convenience of the public using the
street or sidewalk, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant of the
property abutting or adjacent to the street or sidewalk as provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.011 SIGNS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard, poster or rigid
canopy over any street, sidewalk or alley or on other public property without
having first obtained a permit therefor. Permits for signs, signboards, posters
and canopies shall be issued by the City Clerk, subject to the approval of the
Street Commissioner, upon the payment of the fee, if any, established by the
City Council.
   (B)   All signs, signboards, posters and canopies extending over any public
sidewalk, street, alley or other public place must be securely fastened and
constructed so that there will be no danger of the them being dislodged by
ordinary winds or falling from other causes.
   (C)   No sign, signboard, poster or canopy shall be erected or maintained
which extends over any public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in
such a location as to obstruct the view of any traffic light, sign or signal.
   (D)   Upon a determination that a sign, signboard, poster or canopy is in
violation of this section, the city may proceed against the owner or occupant
of the premises where such the sign, signboard, poster or canopy is located as
provided in §
91.16.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.012 CUTTING INTO PAVING, CURB OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut into any paving, curb or
sidewalk for the purpose of constructing a driveway or any other purpose
whatsoever without first having obtained a written permit from the City
Council. Before any person obtains a permit, he or she shall inform the City
Clerk of the place where such cutting is to be done and it shall be the duty of
the Street Commissioner to inspect the proposed place of entry into the paving,
sidewalk or curb.
   (B)   When cutting into any paving, curb or sidewalk, it shall be the duty
of the party to comply with such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the Council or the City Engineer. When the applicant is ready to close the
opening made, he or she shall inform the Street Commissioner, who shall
supervise and inspect the materials used and the work done in closing the
opening.
   (C)   It shall be discretionary with the Council to order the Street
Commissioner, under the supervision and inspection of the City Engineer or the
committee of the Council on the streets and alleys, to do the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk and charge the costs thereof to the
party who obtained the permit. The Council may consent to the cutting and
closing of the paving, curb or sidewalk by the party holding the permit.
   (D)   Before any permit is issued by the Council, the applicant for the
permit shall deposit with the City Treasurer a sum set by resolution of the
Council for all paving, curb or sidewalk to be cut. Such sum shall be set on a
per square foot cost of construction basis. The deposit shall be retained by
the city for the purpose of replacing the paving, curb or sidewalk in the event
the work is done by the city. If the Board elects to require the applicant to
replace the paving, curb or sidewalk, the deposit shall be retained by the city
until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the Street Commissioner or
of the committee of the Council on streets and alleys.
   (E)   In addition to making the deposit, the applicant shall, before any
permit is issued, execute a bond to the city with a good and sufficient surety
to be approved by the Council in a sum set by resolution.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.013 HEAVY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or operate heavy equipment
across any curb, gutter, bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing on
any unpaved street without first having protected such curb, gutter, bridge,
culvert, sidewalks, crosswalk or crossing with heavy plank sufficient in
strength to warrant against the breaking or damaging of such curb, gutter,
bridge, culvert, sidewalk, crosswalk or crossing.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
71.008, it shall be unlawful to run, drive, move, operate or convey over or
across any paved street a vehicle, machine or implement with sharp discs or
sharp wheels that bear upon the pavement; with wheels having cutting edges;
with wheels having lugs, any protruding parts or bolts thereon that extend
beyond a plain tire so as to cut, mark, mar, indent or otherwise injure or
damage any pavement, gutter or curb, except that where heavy vehicles,
structures and machines move along paved or unpaved streets the city is hereby
authorized and empowered to choose the route over which the moving of such
vehicles, structures or machines will be permitted and allowed.
Penalty, see §
152.999
SALE AND ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY; PUBLIC WORKS
§ 152.025 SALE AND CONVEYANCE; REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (I) below, the power of the
municipality to convey any real and personal property owned by it, including
land used for park purposes and public squares, except real property used in
the operation of public utilities, shall be exercised by resolution, directing
the sale at public auction or by sealed bid of such real and personal property
and the manner and terms thereof, except that such real and personal property
shall not be sold at public auction or by sealed bid when:
      (1)   Such property is being sold in compliance with the requirements of
federal or state grants or programs;
      (2)   Such property is being conveyed to another public agency; or
      (3)   Such property consists of streets and alleys.
   (B)   The governing body may establish a minimum price for such real and
personal property at which bidding shall begin or shall serve as a minimum for
a sealed bid.
   (C)   After the passage of the resolution directing the sale, notice of all
proposed sales of real and personal property described in division (A) above
and the terms thereof shall be published once each week for three consecutive
weeks in a legal newspaper published in or of general circulation in the
municipality.
   (D)   If within 30 days after the third publication of the notice a
remonstrance against such sale is signed by registered voters of the
municipality equal in number to 30% of the registered voters of the
municipality voting at the last regular municipal election held therein and is
filed with the governing body, such property shall not then, nor within one
year thereafter, be sold. If the date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the signatures shall be collected within the
30-day period, but the filing shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked
on or before the next business day.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of the remonstrance, the governing body, with the aid
and assistance of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk, shall determine
the validity and sufficiency of signatures on the remonstrance. The governing
body shall deliver the remonstrance to the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. Upon receipt of the remonstrance, the Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall issue to the governing body a written
receipt that the remonstrance is in the custody of the Election Commissioner or
County Clerk. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall compare the
signature of each person signing the remonstrance with the voter registration
records to determine if each signer was a registered voter on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the governing body. The Election
Commissioner or County Clerk shall also compare the signer’s printed name,
street and number or voting precinct and municipal or post office address with
the voter registration records to determine whether the signer was a registered
voter. The signature and address shall be presumed to be valid only if the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk determines that the printed name, street
and number or voting precinct and municipal or post office address matches the
registration records and that the registration was received on or before the
date on which the remonstrance was filed with the governing body. The
determinations of the Election Commissioner or County Clerk may be rebutted by
any credible evidence which the governing body finds sufficient. The express
purpose of the comparison of names and addresses with the voter registration
records, in addition to helping to determine the validity of the remonstrance,
the sufficiency of the remonstrance and the qualifications of the signer, shall
be to prevent fraud, deception and misrepresentation in the remonstrance
process. Upon completion of the comparison of names and addresses with the
voter registration records, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall
prepare in writing a certification under seal setting forth the name and
address of each signer found not to be a registered voter and the signature
page number and line number where the name is found, and if the reason for the
invalidity of the signature or address is other than the nonregistration of the
signer, the Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall set forth the reason
for the invalidity of the signature. If the Election Commissioner or County
Clerk determines that a signer has affixed his or her signature more than once
to the remonstrance and that only one person is registered by that name, the
Election Commissioner or County Clerk shall prepare in writing a certification
under seal setting forth the name of the duplicate signature and shall count
only the earliest dated signature. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall certify to the governing body the number of valid signatures necessary to
constitute a valid remonstrance. The Election Commissioner or County Clerk
shall deliver the remonstrance and the certifications to the governing body
within 40 days after the receipt of the remonstrance from the governing body.
The delivery shall be by hand carrier, by use of law enforcement officials or
by certified mail, return receipt requested. Not more than 20 signatures on one
signature page shall be counted.
   (F)   The governing body shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the
remonstrance and certifications from the Election Commissioner or County Clerk,
hold a public hearing to review the remonstrance and certifications and receive
testimony regarding them. The governing body shall, following the hearing, vote
on whether or not the remonstrance is valid and shall uphold the remonstrance
if sufficient valid signatures have been received.
   (G)   Real estate now owned or hereafter owned by the municipality may be
conveyed without consideration to the state for state armory sites or, if
acquired for state armory sites, such property shall be conveyed strictly in
accordance with the conditions of Neb. RS 18-1001 through 18-1006.
   (H)   Following passage of the resolution directing a sale, publishing of
the notice of the proposed sale and passing of the 30-day right-of-remonstrance
period, the property shall then be sold. Such sale shall be confirmed by
passage of an ordinance stating the name of the purchaser and terms of the
sale. The Municipal Clerk shall upon passage of such ordinance certify the name
of the purchaser to the Register of Deeds of the county in which the property
is located.
   (I)   Divisions (A) through (H) above shall not apply to the sale of real
and personal property if the authorizing resolution directs the sale of an item
or items of real and personal property, the total fair market value of which is
less than $5,000. Following passage of the resolution directing the sale of the
property, notice of the sale shall be posted in three prominent places within
the municipality for a period of not less than seven days prior to the sale of
the property. The notice shall give a general description of the property
offered for sale and state the terms and conditions of sale. Confirmation of
the sale by passage of an ordinance may be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-105) (Ord. 677, passed 10-4-1994; Ord. 735, passed 12-3-1996;
Ord. 778, passed 12-1-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-503 and 17-503.01
§ 152.026 ACQUISITION OR CONSTRUCTION OF PROPERTY; ELECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The municipality is authorized and empowered to: purchase; accept by
gift or devise; purchase real estate upon which to erect; and erect a building
or buildings for an auditorium, fire station, municipal building or community
house for housing municipal enterprises and social and recreation purposes, and
other public buildings, and maintain, manage and operate the same for the
benefit of the inhabitants of the municipality.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, before any such purchase can
be made or building erected, the question shall be submitted to the electors of
the municipality at a general municipal election or at an election duly called
for that purpose, or as set forth in Neb. RS 17-954, and be adopted by a
majority of the electors voting on such question.
   (C)    If the funds to be used to finance the purchase or construction of a
building pursuant to this section are available other than through a bond
issue, then either:
      (1)    Notice of the proposed purchase or construction shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality and no election shall
be required to approve the purchase or construction unless within 30 days after
the publication of the notice, a remonstrance against the purchase or
construction is signed by registered voters of the municipality equal in number
to 15% of the registered voters of the municipality voting at the last regular
municipal election held therein and is filed with the governing body. If the
date for filing the remonstrance falls upon a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the signatures shall be considered timely if filed or postmarked on or
before the next business day. If a remonstrance with the necessary number of
qualified signatures is timely filed, the question shall be submitted to the
voters of the municipality at a general municipal election or a special
election duly called for that purpose. If the purchase or construction is not
approved, the property involved shall not then, nor within one year following
the election, be purchased or constructed; or
      (2)   The governing body may proceed without providing the notice and
right of remonstrance required in division (C)(1) above if the property can be
purchased below the fair market value as determined by an appraisal, there is a
willing seller and the purchase price is less than $25,000. The purchase shall
be approved by the governing body after notice and public hearing as provided
in Neb. RS 18-1755.
(Prior Code, § 8-110) (Ord. 736, passed 12-3-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-953 and 17-953.01
§ 152.027 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY GENERALLY.
   (A)   The city shall acquire an interest in real property by purchase or
eminent domain only after the governing body has authorized the acquisition by
action taken in a public meeting after notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The city shall provide to the public a right of access for
recreational use to real property acquired for public recreational purposes.
Such access shall be at designated access points and shall be equal to the
right of access for recreational use held by adjacent landowners. The right of
access granted to the public for recreational use shall meet or exceed such
right held by a private landowner adjacent to the real property.
(Prior Code, § 8-113) (Ord. 707, passed 10-3-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-1755
§ 152.028 ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; APPRAISAL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the city shall not purchase,
lease-purchase or acquire for consideration real property having an estimated
value of $100,000 or more unless an appraisal of such property has been
performed by a certified real property appraiser.
(Prior Code, § 8-114) (Ord. 708, passed 10-3-1995)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 13-403
SIDEWALKS
§ 152.040 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP CLEAN.
   It shall be unlawful for the occupant of any lot or lots or the owner of any
vacant lot or lots within the corporate limits to allow snow, sleet, mud, ice
or other substance to accumulate on the sidewalks or to permit any snow, sleet,
ice, mud or other substance to remain upon the sidewalk. Unless the City
Council has provided otherwise, all sidewalks within the Business District
shall be cleaned within five hours after the cessation of a storm, unless the
storm or fall of snow shall have taken place during the night, in which case
the sidewalk shall be cleaned before 9:00 a.m. the following day, and sidewalks
within the residential areas of the city shall be cleaned within 24 hours after
the cessation of the storm.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.041 USE OF SPACE BENEATH.
   No person shall be allowed to keep or use the space beneath the sidewalk
lying between lot line and curb line unless a permit has been obtained from the
City Council. Before any permit is granted, the applicant shall submit plans
and specifications of any present or proposed construction to the City
Engineer. If the plans or specifications are disapproved by the Engineer, no
permit shall be granted. All permits hereafter granted shall continue only upon
the condition that the party receiving them builds, maintains and keeps in
repair a sidewalk over the space used or constructed to be used and pays all
damages that may be sustained by any person by reason of such use or by reason
of the sidewalk being defective or in a dangerous condition. As a condition
precedent to the issuance or continuance of any permit for the use of any space
underneath the city sidewalks as contemplated in this section, the City Council
may require the applicant to furnish a bond to the city as obligee for the
benefit of any person who may suffer an injury or damage by reason of such use.
The bond shall be in such sum as the City Council, in its discretion, may
designate.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.042 DEMOLITION, REMOVAL AND CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   Any person desiring to demolish, remove or construct, or cause to be
demolished, removed or constructed, any sidewalk shall do so only as herein
provided. It shall be unlawful for any person to demolish, remove or construct
any sidewalk within the municipality without first having a permit from the
municipality.
   (B)   In order to obtain said permit, the owner or person contracted with by
the owner shall make a written application in the office of the Municipal
Clerk. A written application shall give a legal description and street address
of the lot or tract of land upon which the sidewalk is to be demolished,
removed or constructed and shall further provide for a complete description of
the work to be completed, which shall include the specific location of the
sidewalk to be demolished, removed or constructed, upon said real property. No
permit shall be issued for demolition or removal of a sidewalk unless the
application shall set forth that a new sidewalk shall be constructed in the
same location as the sidewalk to be demolished or removed and that said new
sidewalk construction shall be completed within 120 days from the date the
permit is issued. The Utilities Superintendent shall issue the desired permit
unless good cause shall appear why said permit should be denied; provided, that
if it is desired to construct a new sidewalk in any manner other than the
regularly prescribed location, grade or elevation, the Utilities Superintendent
shall submit the application to the governing body, who shall determine whether
the permit should be granted or denied. It shall be unlawful for any person to
construct, or cause to be constructed, a sidewalk at any other location, grade
or elevation than so designated by the municipality.
   (C)   All sidewalks shall be built and constructed on the established grade,
or elevation, and if there is no established grade, then on the grade or
elevation indicated by the Utilities Superintendent. All sidewalks shall be at
least four inches thick and shall be constructed in conformity with such
specifications as may be set forth by the governing body, and construction
shall be completed within 120 days from the date the permit therefor is issued.
(Prior Code, § 8-205) (Ord. 881, passed 4-6-2010; Ord. 883, passed 6-8-2010;
Ord. 885, passed 8-10-2010) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.043 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR AT CITY DIRECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor and City Council may construct and repair sidewalks or
cause the construction and repair of sidewalks in such manner as the Mayor and
City Council deem necessary and assess the expense of such construction or
repairs on the property in front of which such construction or repairs are
made, after having given notice:
         (a)   By publication in one issue of a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the city; and
         (b)   By either causing a written notice to be served upon the
occupant in possession of the property involved or to be posted upon such
premises ten days prior to the commencement of such construction or repair.
      (2)   The powers conferred under this section are in addition to those
provided in Neb. RS 17-509 through 17-521 and may be exercised without creating
an improvement district.
      (3)   If the owner of any property abutting any street or avenue or part
thereof fails to construct or repair any sidewalk in front of the owner’s
property within the time and in the manner as directed and requested by the
Mayor and City Council, after having received due notice to do so, the Mayor
and City Council may cause the sidewalk to be constructed or repaired and may
assess the cost of such construction or repairs against the property.
(Neb. RS 17-522)
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be constructed and repaired in conformity with
such plans and specifications as may be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Assessments made under the provisions of this section shall be made
and assessed in the following manner:
      (1)   Such assessment shall be made by the City Council at a special
meeting by a resolution taking into account the benefits derived or injuries
sustained in consequence of such improvements, and the amount charged against
the same, which, with the vote, shall be recorded in the minutes. Notice of the
time of holding such meeting and the purpose for which it is to be held shall
be published in a legal newspaper in or of general circulation in the in the
city at least four weeks before the same shall be held or, in lieu thereof,
personal service may be made upon persons owning or occupying property to be
assessed; and
      (2)   All such assessments shall be known as special assessments for
improvements and shall be levied and collected as a separate tax, in addition
to the taxes for general revenue purposes, and shall be placed on the tax roll
for collection, subject to the same penalties and collected in like manner as
other city taxes.
(Neb. RS 17-524)
Statutory reference:
    Authority to improve through sidewalk district, see Neb. RS 19-2417 through
19-2419
§ 152.044 MUNICIPAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The governing body may by resolution order the construction of a
sidewalk on any lot or piece of ground within the municipality. Notice of the
governing body’s intention to construct said sidewalk shall be given by the
Municipal Clerk by publication of notice one time in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality.
   (B)   A copy of said notice shall be personally served upon the occupant in
possession of such property or, when personal service is not possible, said
notice shall be mailed to such property owner ten days prior to the
commencement of construction. The notice required in this section shall be
prepared by the Municipal Attorney in accordance with the provisions of this
section. Such service shall include a form of return evidencing personal
service or posting as herein required.
   (C)   Said notice shall notify the owner of the premises of the passage of
the resolution ordering him or her to construct or cause to be constructed a
sidewalk within 30 days after the date of publication and further that if he or
she fails to construct the sidewalk or cause the same to be done within the
time allowed, the municipality will cause the sidewalk to be constructed, and
the cost thereof shall be levied and assessed as a special tax against the
premises; provided, that the notice shall contain the official estimate of the
cost of said construction and no special assessment in excess of this estimate
shall be assessed against the property. In the event the property owner is a
nonresident of the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall,
before levying any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any
notice required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property owner.
The last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at
the time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-206)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-522 and 17-523
§ 152.045 CONSTRUCTION BY PETITION.
   If the owners of the record title representing more than 60% of the front
footage of the directly abutting property, subject to assessment for sidewalk
improvements, petition the governing body to make the same, the governing body
shall proceed in all things as though such construction had been ordered by it.
Upon the petition of any freeholder who is an abutting owner in fee simple of
property subject to assessment for sidewalk improvements, the governing body
may order permanent sidewalks built in accordance with this subchapter upon the
freeholder making, executing and delivering to the municipality an agreement to
the effect that the petitioning freeholder will pay the engineering service
fee, and all other incidental construction costs, until paid, shall be a
perpetual lien upon the real estate along which the freeholder desires such
sidewalk to be constructed and that the petitioner gives and grants to the
municipality the right to assess and levy the costs of such construction
against the freeholder’s real estate abutting the sidewalk improvement and
promises to pay such costs with interest. The total cost of such improvement
shall be levied, allocated, financed and specially assessed as provided by law.
In the event the property owner is a nonresident of the county in which the
property lies, the municipality shall, before levying any special assessment
against that property, send a copy of any notice required by law to be
published by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the nonresident property owner. The last known address shall
be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the time such required
notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-207)
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 152.060 OPENING, WIDENING, IMPROVING OR VACATING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall have power to open, widen or otherwise improve or
vacate any street, avenue, alley or lane within the limits of the city and also
to create, open and improve any new street, avenue, alley or lane. All damages
sustained by the citizens of the city, or by the owners of the property
therein, shall be ascertained in that manner as shall be provided by ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever any street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated, the same
shall revert to the owners of the abutting real estate, one-half on each side
thereof, and become a part of that property, unless the city reserves title in
the ordinance vacating such street or alley. If title is retained by the city,
such property may be sold, conveyed, exchanged or leased upon such terms and
conditions as shall be deemed in the best interests of the city.
      (3)   When a portion of a street, avenue, alley or lane is vacated only
on one side of the center thereof, the title to the land shall vest in the
owner of the abutting property and become a part of that property, unless the
city reserves title in the ordinance vacating a portion of such street or
alley. If title is retained by the city, such property may be sold, conveyed,
exchanged or leased upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed in the
best interests of the city.
      (4)   When the city vacates all or any portion of a street, avenue, alley
or lane, the city shall, within 30 days after the effective date of the
vacation, file a certified copy of the vacating ordinance with the Register of
Deeds for the county in which the vacated property is located to be indexed
against all affected lots.
      (5)   The title to property vacated pursuant to this section shall be
subject to the following:
         (a)   There is reserved to the city the right to maintain, operate,
repair and renew public utilities existing at the time title to the property is
vacated there; and
         (b)   There is reserved to the city, any public utilities and any
cable television systems the right to maintain, repair, renew and operate water
mains, gas mains, pole lines, conduits, electrical transmission lines, sound
and signal transmission lines and other similar services and equipment and
appurtenances, including lateral connections or branch lines, above, on or
below the surface of the ground that are existing as valid easements at the
time title to the property is vacated for the purposes of serving the general
public or the abutting properties and to enter upon the premises to accomplish
such purposes at any and all reasonable times.
(Neb. RS 17-558)
   (B)   The city shall have power to create, open, widen or extend any street,
avenue, alley, off-street parking area or other public way, or annul, vacate or
discontinue the same.
(Neb. RS 17-559)
§ 152.061 VACATING PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   “Special damages” defined. For the purpose of this section, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      SPECIAL DAMAGES. Only those losses, damages or injuries which a property
owner suffers that are peculiar, special or unique to his or her property and
which result from the governing body vacating a street, avenue, alley, lane or
similar public way within the municipality, such as loss of ingress and egress
to and from his or her property onto said vacated public way. SPECIAL DAMAGES
shall not mean those losses, damages or injuries that a property owner suffers
that are in common with the rest of the city or public at large, even though
those losses, damages or injuries suffered by the property owner are greater in
degree than the rest of the city or public at large.
   (B)   The measure of special damages. Owners of real estate abutting the
vacated public way shall be entitled to recover as compensation for such
vacation, the difference between the fair market value of such real estate
immediately before and immediately after the vacating thereof. If there is no
difference in value of the abutting owner’s real estate before and after the
vacation, said owner shall receive no compensation for the vacation of said
public way. No other method of ascertaining damages shall be utilized, and loss
of anticipated profits from the continued operation of any business located
upon real estate abutting the vacated public way shall not be considered as a
separate element of damages for which compensation is paid.
   (C)   Procedure for vacating public ways. Whenever the governing body
decides that is would be in the best interests of the municipality to vacate a
street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way, the governing body shall
comply with the following procedure.
      (1)   Notice.
         (a)   Notice shall be given to all owners of property abutting the
public way to be vacated either by first class mail to their last known
address, or if there is no known address, then by publishing the notice two
times in a newspaper that is in general circulation in the municipality. Notice
shall be mailed to the abutting owners at least 14 days prior to the date of
the hearing on special damages, and the last publication of notice of said
hearing shall be at least three calendar days prior to said hearing.
         (b)   The notice shall name and/or otherwise identify the segment of
street, avenue, alley, lane or other public way which is proposed to be vacated
and shall advise said property owners that they have the right to appear before
the governing body to be heard regarding any special damages to their property.
The notice will show the date, time and place of the regular or special meeting
at which the governing body will consider vacating such public way, and of the
hearing to be held to ascertain special damages, if any, to owners of abutting
property. The hearing on special damages may be held during the same meeting at
which the vacation of the public way is taken up and may be continued from time
to time by the governing body upon reasonable cause shown by an abuttting
owner.
      (2)   Consent/waiver.
         (a)   The governing body may have all the abutting property owners
sign a form stating that they consent to the action being taken by the
governing body and waive their right of access. The signing of such form has no
effect on claims for special damages, as defined herein, by the abutting
property owners, but does create the presumption that the governing body’s
action was proper.
         (b)   However, if all the abutting property owners do not sign the
consent/waiver form, the governing body may still proceed with vacating such
street, avenue, alley, lane or similar public way under the authority granted
them by Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559, in accordance with this section.
      (3)   Vacation and ascertainment of special damages.
         (a)   The governing body shall determine whether vacation of the
public way in question is in the best interests of the municipality and
expedient for the public good. If the governing body determines that the public
way should be vacated, it shall proceed to consider all relevant evidence
regarding special damages to owners of abutting property, and each such owner
may present evidence in support of his or her claim for damages. The governing
body may, but is not required to, obtain independent appraisals or commission
the Municipal Engineer or other consultant to report on special damages
incurred by owners or property abutting the vacated public way and may make a
view of the property in question. Evidence of special damages may be presented
in written or oral form, and the hearing on special damages may be recorded at
the expense of the party requesting the record, and it may be continued from
time to time upon reasonable cause shown. The Mayor shall preside over the
hearing unless the governing body shall by majority vote appoint a special
hearing officer to preside. The decision of the governing body regarding
special damages shall be based upon all relevant evidence presented or obtained
in regard thereto.
         (b)   Following the hearing on special damages, the governing body
shall pass an ordinance which shall contain the following:
            1.   A declaration that the action is expedient for the public good
and in the best interest of the municipality;
            2.   A statement that the municipality shall have an easement for
maintaining all utilities;
            3.   A statement of the description and name of the segment or
portion of public way vacated thereby;
            4.   A statement providing that one-half of such vacated public way
shall revert to owners of real estate adjacent to said vacated public way; and
            5.   A specific finding of the special damages found to be suffered
by each owner of real estate abutting the vacated public way, or a general
finding that no special damages were incurred by any abutting property owner,
and provision for the payment thereof, if applicable.
      (4)   Filing. The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of the ordinance
with the County Register of Deeds to ensure that abutting property owners can
gain title to their share of the vacated street, avenue, alley, lane or similar
public way and so that such land will be drawn to the attention of the County
Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 8-317) (Ord. 504, passed 11-4-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-558 and 17-559
§ 152.062 CROSSINGS.
   The City Council may order and cause to be constructed, under the
supervision of the Street Commissioner, those street, avenue and alley
crossings as the City Council deems necessary. When a petition for the
construction of any such crossings is filed by an interested resident in the
office of the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer the application to the
Street Commissioner, who shall investigate and make a recommendation to the
City Council. Action by the City Council on the application, whether the
application is approved or rejected, shall be considered final.
§ 152.063 NAMES AND NUMBERS.
   (A)   The governing body may at any time, by ordinance, rename any street or
provide a name for any new street. Buildings used for residence or business
purposes and located along such streets shall retain such numbers as the
governing body may require. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Clerk, upon
the erection of any new building or buildings, to assign the proper numbers to
said building or buildings and give notice to the owner or owners and occupant
or occupants of the same.
   (B)   The intersection of First Street and Main Street in the city is hereby
designated as the starting point for the numbering of buildings. The first
block in each direction from said point shall be numbered in the 100 series
starting with 100. Each succeeding block thereafter shall be numbered in the
succeeding 100 series insofar as possible. Even numbers shall be located on the
north side of east and west streets and on the east side of north and south
streets and the odd numbers are assigned to the opposite sides of the streets.
The plan and system of numbering the buildings filed this date with the City
Clerk is hereby approved and adopted and the same shall govern the numbers
assigned to the several lots and tracts of land within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-301)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-567
§ 152.064 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES.
   (A)   The Street Commissioner may require the owner of property served by a
driveway approach constructed or maintained upon the street right-of-way to
repair or replace any such driveway approach which is cracked, broken or
otherwise deteriorated to the extent that it is causing or is likely to cause
damage to or interfere with any street structure, including pavement or
sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give the property owner notice by registered
letter or certified mail, directed to the last known address of the owner or
the agent of the owner, directing the repair or replacement of the driveway
approach. If within 30 days of mailing the notice the property owner fails or
neglects to cause the repairs or replacements to be made, the Street
Commissioner may cause the work to be done and assess the cost upon the
property served by the approach.
(Neb. RS 18-1748) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.065 EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any street or
streets for any purpose whatsoever unless a written permit is issued by the
Street Commissioner authorizing those excavations.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.066 DRIVING STAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any peg or stake of any kind
into the pavement in any street or alley without first procuring the written
consent of the Street Commissioner.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.067 MIXING CONCRETE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mix any concrete or plastering
material directly on the street pavement for any reason whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.068 HARMFUL LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to leak in the gutter
of any street any waste gasoline, kerosene or high lubricating oils, which
damage or act as a solvent upon the streets.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.069 CONSTRUCTION ASSESSMENT.
   To defray the costs and expenses of street improvements, as may be
authorized by law, the governing body shall have power and authority to levy
and collect special taxes and assessments upon the lots and pieces of ground
adjacent to, abutting upon or especially benefiting from, the street, avenue,
alley or sidewalk in whole or in part opened, widened, curbed, curbed and
guttered, graded, paved, repaired, graveled, macadamized, parked, extended,
constructed or otherwise improved or repaired. The governing body, sitting as
the Board of Equalization, shall review all such improvements in accordance
with the procedure provided by law. All special assessments shall be made by
the governing body at a regular or special meeting by resolution, taking into
account the benefits derived or injuries sustained in consequence of such
improvements and the amount charged against same. The vote shall be recorded in
the minutes. Notice of the time of holding such meeting and the purpose for
which it is to be held shall be published in some legal newspaper published, or
of general circulation, in the municipality at least four weeks before the same
shall be held. In lieu of such aforementioned notice, personal service may be
had upon the persons owning or occupying the property to be assessed. Such
assessments shall be known as special assessments for improvements and with the
cost of notice shall be levied and collected as a special tax in addition to
the taxes for general revenue purposes, subject to the same penalties and
collected in like manner as other municipal taxes and shall be certified to the
County Clerk by the Municipal Clerk forthwith after the date of levy, for
collection by the Treasurer of said county unless otherwise specified. After it
shall become delinquent said assessment shall draw interest at the legal
interest rate per annum. In the event the property owner is a nonresident of
the county in which the property lies, the municipality shall, before levying
any special assessment against that property, send a copy of any notice
required by law to be published by means of certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the nonresident property owner. The
last known address shall be that address listed on the current tax rolls at the
time such required notice was first published.
(Prior Code, § 8-310)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511 and 17-524
§ 152.070 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS; OBJECTIONS.
   Whenever the governing body deems it necessary to make any improvements
allowed by statute which are to be funded by a levy of special assessment on
the property especially benefited, the governing body shall by ordinance create
a paving, graveling or other improvement district and, after the passage,
approval and publication or posting of such ordinance, shall publish notice of
the creation of any such district for six days in a legal newspaper of the
municipality, if a daily newspaper, or for two consecutive weeks if it is a
weekly newspaper. If no legal newspaper is published in the municipality, the
publication shall be in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality. If the owners of the record title representing more than 50% of
the front footage of the property directly abutting on the street or alley to
be improved file with the Municipal Clerk within 20 days after the first
publication of such notice written objections to the creation of such district,
such improvement shall not be made as provided in such ordinance, but such
ordinance shall be repealed. If objections are not filed against the district
in the time and manner prescribed in this section, the governing body shall
immediately cause such work to be done or such improvement to be made, shall
contract for the work or improvement and shall levy assessments on the lots and
parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such street or alley especially
benefited in such district in proportion to such benefits to pay the cost of
such improvement.
(Prior Code, § 8-311) (Ord. 737, passed 12-3-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-511
§ 152.071 IMPROVEMENT OF STREETS ON CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Mayor and Council shall have the power to improve any street or part
thereof which divides the municipal corporate area and the area adjoining the
municipality. When creating an improvement district including land adjacent to
the municipality, the Council shall have power to assess, to the extent of
special benefits, the costs of such improvements upon the properties found
especially benefited thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-312)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-509
§ 152.072 IMPROVEMENT OF MAIN THOROUGHFARES.
   The Mayor and City Council shall have the power by a three-fourths’ vote of
the governing body to create by ordinance a paving, graveling or other
improvement district and to order such work done upon any federal or state
highway in the municipality or upon a street or route, designated by the Mayor
and City Council as a main thoroughfare that connects, on both ends, to either
a federal or state highway or a county road. The governing body shall contract
therefor and shall have the power to assess, to the extent of special benefits,
the costs of such improvements upon the properties found especially benefited
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 8-313)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-512
§ 152.073 PETITION FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   Whenever a petition, signed by the owners of record title representing more
than 60% of the front footage of the property directly abutting upon the
street, streets, alley, alleys, public way or the public grounds proposed to be
improved, shall be presented and filed with the Municipal Clerk, petitioning
therefor, the governing body shall by ordinance create a paving, graveling or
other improvement district or districts, and shall cause such work to be done
or such improvement to be made, and shall contract therefor, and shall levy
assessments on the lots and parcels of land abutting on or adjacent to such
street, streets, alley or alleys, especially benefited thereby in such district
in proportion to such benefits, to pay the cost of such improvement. The
governing body shall have the discretion to deny the formation of the proposed
district when the area has not previously been improved with a water system,
sewer system and grading of streets. If the governing body should deny a
requested improvement district formation, it shall state the grounds for such
denial in a written letter to interested parties.
(Prior Code, § 8-314)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-510
§ 152.074 DEFERRAL FROM SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the governing body of a municipality creates an
improvement district as specified in §
152.002 which includes land adjacent to the municipality which is within an
Agricultural Use Zone and is used exclusively for agricultural use, the owners
of record title of such adjacent land may apply for a deferral from special
assessments.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of land as described in Neb. RS 77-1359, so
that incidental use of the land for nonagricultural or non-horticultural
purposes shall not disqualify the land.
         AGRICULTURAL USE ZONE. Designation of any land predominantly for
agricultural or horticultural use by any political subdivision pursuant to Neb.
RS 19-925 through 19-933; Chapter 14, Article 4; Chapter 15, Article 9; Chapter
16, Article 9; Chapter 17, Article 10; or Chapter 23, Article 1.
      (3)   The primary objective of the agricultural use zoning shall be to
preserve and protect agricultural activities and the potential for
agricultural, horticultural or open use of land. Uses to be allowed on such
lands include primarily agricultural-related or horticultural-related uses, and
nonagricultural or non-horticultural industrial, commercial or residential uses
allowed on such lands shall be restricted so that they do not conflict with or
detract from this objective.
   (B)   Any owner of record title eligible for the deferral granted by this
section shall, to secure such assessment, make application to the governing
body of the municipality within 90 days after creation of an improvement
district as specified in §
152.026. Any owner of record title who makes application for the deferral
provided by this section shall notify the County Register of Deeds of such
application in writing prior to approval by the governing body. The governing
body shall approve the application of any owner of record title upon
determination that the property:
      (1)   Is within an Agricultural Use Zone and is used exclusively for
agricultural use; and
      (2)   The owner has met the requirements of this section.
   (C)   The deferral provided for in this section shall be terminated upon any
of the following events:
      (1)   Notification by the owner of record title to the governing body to
remove such deferral;
      (2)   Sale or transfer to a new owner who does not make a new application
within 60 days of the sale or transfer, except as provided in this division
(C);
      (3)   Transfer by reason of death of a former owner to a new owner who
does not make application within 125 days of the transfer;
      (4)   The land is no longer being used as agricultural land; or
      (5)   Change of zoning to other than an agricultural zone.
   (D)   Whenever property which has received a deferral pursuant to this
section becomes disqualified for such deferral, the owner of record title of
such property shall pay to the municipality an amount equal to:
      (1)   The total amount of special assessments which would have been
assessed against such property, to the extent of special benefits, had such
deferral not been granted; and
      (2)   Interest upon the special assessments not paid each year at the
rate of 6% from the dates at which such assessments would have been payable if
no deferral had been granted.
   (E)   In cases where the deferral provided by this section is terminated as
a result of a sale or transfer described in divisions (B) or (C) above the lien
for assessments and interest shall attach as of the day preceding such sale or
transfer.
(Prior Code, § 8-315) (Ord. 526, passed 11-3-1987)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-2428 through 19-2431
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
CHAPTER 153: MUNICIPAL PLANNING
Section
Comprehensive Plan
   
153.01   Comprehensive plan adopted
Zoning Regulations
   
153.15   Zoning regulations adopted
   
153.16   Manufactured homes; standards
Subdivision Regulations
   
153.30   Subdivision regulations adopted
   
153.31   Subdivisions; platting; designation of extraterritorial jurisdiction
 
   
153.99   Penalty
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
§ 153.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   In order to accommodate anticipated long-range future growth, the
comprehensive development plan, and any amendments that may be made therein
from time to time for the city, as prepared by Vision 17 has been adopted.
   (B)   One copy of the adopted plan shall be kept on file with the Municipal
Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the public during office
hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 357, passed 12-7-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 18-132
ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 153.15 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   Zoning regulations.
      (1)   There are hereby zoning regulations for the city which shall be
designated as “Zoning Regulations for the City of Wilber.” These zoning
regulations were created in accordance with the city’s comprehensive
development plan designed to accommodate and anticipate long-range future
growth based upon population and economic projections for the community.
      (2)   These zoning regulations shall regulate and restrict the following:
         (a)   The height, number of stories and size of buildings and other
structures;
         (b)   The percentage of lot that may be occupied;
         (c)   The size of yards, courts and other open spaces;
         (d)   The density of population; and
         (e)   The location and use of buildings, structures and land for
trade, industry, residence or other purposes in the city, and an area extending
up to one mile from the corporate limits thereof.
      (3)   These zoning regulations shall regulate and restrict the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land in the city, and an area extending up to one mile from the
corporate limits thereof, to divide the said city and an area extending up to
one mile from the corporate limits thereof, into zoning districts and providing
for the boundaries of said districts and the manner in which said districts
shall be determined, established and enforced, and from time-to-time amended,
supplemented or changed.
      (4)   Further, these zoning regulations shall make certain exceptions;
create the office of Zoning Administrator and the Board of Adjustment; and
provide for the enforcement of and the penalties for the violation of any of
its provisions.
      (5)   The zoning regulations are adopted for the purpose of promoting
health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community and are
incorporated by reference as if adopted in full herein. One copy of the zoning
regulations shall be kept on file with the Municipal Clerk and available for
inspection by the public during office hours.
   (B)   Zoning map. The city hereby has a zoning map and an extraterritorial
jurisdiction map for the purpose of dividing the city’s jurisdiction into
zoning districts.
(Prior Code, § 11-201) (Ord. 870, passed 1-13-2009; Ord. 891, passed 6-7-2011;
Ord. 905, passed 11-12-2013; Ord. 906, passed 11-12-2013; Ord. 917, passed 3-
28-2016)
§ 153.16 MANUFACTURED HOMES; STANDARDS.
   (A)   A manufactured home may be used as a residential structure in any zone
in which residential uses are permitted if such manufactured home bears an
appropriate seal which indicates that it was constructed in accordance with the
standards of the Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational
Vehicles, the State Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units Act or the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (B)   Manufactured homes permitted pursuant to this section shall be located
and installed according to same standards for foundation systems, permanent
utility connections, setback and minimum square footage which would apply to
site-built, single-family dwelling on the same lot, including, but not limited
to, the following standards which are applicable to site-built, single-family
dwellings.
      (1)   The home shall be located and installed on a permanent perimeter
foundation and shall meet the required footings and foundation wall
requirements of the city for residential development.
      (2)   The home shall be installed with permanent utility connections,
directly connected to the structure.
      (3)   The home shall comply with all setback and lot requirements of the
residential zone in which it is located.
      (4)   The home shall comply with the minimum square footage requirements
of the residential zone in which it is located.
   (C)    Manufactured homes shall also meet the following standards.
      (1)   The home shall have no less than 900 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The home shall have no less than an 18-foot exterior width.
      (3)   The roof shall be pitched with a minimum vertical rise of two and
one-half inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run.
      (4)   The exterior material shall be of a color, material and scale
comparable with those existing in residential site-built, single-family
construction.
      (5)   The home shall have a nonreflective roof material which is or
simulates asphalt or wood shingles, tile or rock.
      (6)   The home shall have wheels, axles, transporting lights and
removable towing apparatus removed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to supersede any valid
restrictive covenants of record.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, MANUFACTURED HOME shall mean:
      (1)   A factory-built structure which is to be used as a place for human
habitation, which is not constructed or equipped with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing it to be moved other than to a permanent site, which does
not have permanently attached to its body or frame any wheels or axles, and
which bears a label certifying that it was built in compliance with national
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, 24 C.F.R. parts 3280 et
seq. promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development; or
      (2)   A modular housing unit as defined in Neb. RS 71-1557, bearing a
seal in accordance with the State Uniform Standards for Modular Housing Units
Act.
(Prior Code, § 11-202) (Ord. 710, passed 10-3-1995; Ord. 805, passed 6-12-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 19-902
   State Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes, see Neb. RS 71-1555
   Uniform Standard Code for Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles, see
Neb. RS 71-4601
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 153.30 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   To provide for harmonious development of the municipality and its
environs; for the integration of new subdivision streets with other existing or
planned streets or with other features of the comprehensive plan; for adequate
open spaces for traffic, recreation, light and air; for the distribution of
population and traffic in a manner which will tend to create conditions
favorable to health, safety, convenience or prosperity; to ensure conformance
of subdivision plans with the capital improvement program of the municipality;
and, to secure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing uniform
procedures and standards for observance by subdividers and the Planning
Commission and governing body, the subdivision regulations for the city, as
prepared by Vision 17 and published in pamphlet form, and any amendments
thereto as may be made therein from time to time, have been adopted.
   (B)   One copy of the adopted subdivision regulations shall be kept on file
with the Municipal Clerk and available for inspection by any member of the
public during office hours.
(Prior Code, § 11-301) (Ord. 357, passed 12-7-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1003 and 18-132
§ 153.31 SUBDIVISIONS; PLATTING; DESIGNATION OF EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The territory located within one mile of the corporate limits of the
municipality is hereby designated as within the municipality’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction for the purpose of exercising the powers and duties granted by
Neb. RS 17-1002 and 17-1003, with respect to subdivisions and platting.
(Prior Code, § 11-302) (Ord. 679, passed 10-4-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Neb. RS 17-1002 and 17-1004
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this chapter, set forth at full length herein or
incorporated by reference shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. A new
violation shall be deemed to have been committed every 24 hours of such failure
to comply.
(Prior Code, § 11-401) (Ord. 808, passed 12-11-2001)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Nebraska Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NEBRASKA REVISED STATUTES
 
Neb. RS Section Code Section
Neb. RS Section             Code Section
3-501 through 3-514         32.07
9-201 et seq.               114.04
9-201                       114.15
9-239                       114.02;
                            114.03
9-301 et seq.               114.15
9-401 et seq.               114.15
9-601 et seq.               114.15
9-642.01                    114.15
9-646                       114.16
10-101 through 10-143       35.12
10-606 through 10-612       35.12
Chapter 11, Article 1       32.66
11-101                      33.41
11-104                      33.40
11-105                      33.40
11-109                      33.40
11-110                      33.40
11-111                      33.40
11-112                      33.40
11-113                      33.40
11-114                      33.40
11-115                      33.40
11-116                      33.40
11-117                      33.40
11-118                      33.40
13-403                      152.028
13-503                      35.01
13-504                      35.28
13-505                      35.28
13-506                      35.29
13-507                      35.29
13-508                      35.30
13-509                      35.30;
                            35.54
13-509.01                   35.27
13-509.02                   35.27
13-510                      35.33
13-511                      35.34
13-518 through 13-522       35.29;
                            35.34
13-519                      34.04
13-606                      35.02
13-609                      35.14
13-903                      35.05
13-1802                     32.67
13-2016.01                  51.01
Chapter 14, Article 4       152.074
Chapter 15, Article 9       152.074
16-318(3)                   31.04
16-691.01                   35.11
16-714 through 16-716       35.10
Chapter 16, Article 9       152.074
17-102                      30.15
17-103                      30.15
17-104                      30.15
17-106                      33.19
                            30.02;
17-107                      31.01;
                            31.08;
                            32.68
17-108                      33.55
                            30.01;
17-108.02                   30.15;
                            31.02
17-110                      30.01
17-111                      30.01
17-112                      30.01
17-113                      30.01
17-114                      30.01;
                            51.03
17-117                      30.01
17-118                      32.67
17-119                      31.12;
                            31.13
                            31.06;
17-121                      32.03;
                            91.01;
                            91.02
17-123                      51.03;
                            92.013
17-129                      131.01
17-130 through 17-132       150.001
17-131                      150.096
                            111.02;
17-134                      111.04—
                            111.08;
                            111.10
17-138                      92.006
                            131.02;
17-142                      131.03;
                            150.015
17-143                      115.01
17-147                      32.20
17-148                      30.16
17-149                      53.002;
                            53.003
17-150                      31.14
17-501 to 17-560            31.10
17-502                      11.01
17-503                      152.025
17-503.01                   152.025
17-505                      36.01
17-506                      35.50
17-507                      35.51
17-509                      152.071
17-509 through 17-521       152.043
17-510                      152.073
17-511                      152.069;
                            152.070
17-512                      152.071
17-522                      152.043;
                            152.044
17-523                      152.044
17-524                      152.043;
                            152.069
17-525                      110.04;
                            111.04
                            92.002;
                            92.008;
                            92.013;
17-526                      92.045;
                            92.048;
                            92.049;
                            92.051;
                            92.052
17-531                      52.02
17-534                      52.02
17-536                      52.14
                            52.03;
                            52.05;
                            52.07;
                            52.11;
17-537                      52.12;
                            52.15;
                            52.18;
                            52.22;
                            52.29
17-538                      50.04
17-539                      52.06
17-540                      35.11
17-541                      31.10
17-542                      52.28;
                            52.29
17-543                      31.10
17-547                      92.002;
                            92.008
                            92.008;
17-548                      92.009;
                            92.053
17-549                      93.60—
                            93.64
                            93.29—
17-550                      93.33;
                            150.001
17-551                      115.02
                            115.01;
17-552                      115.02;
                            115.05
                            91.17;
17-555                      131.02—
                            131.04;
                            150.096
                            93.45;
                            93.46;
17-556                      93.62;
                            93.63;
                            131.01;
                            131.06
17-557                      131.02;
                            131.03
17-558                      152.060;
                            152.061
17-559                      152.060;
                            152.061
17-561                      115.04
17-563                      133.06
17-567                      152.004;
                            152.063
17-568                      31.14
17-568.01                   31.14;
                            35.03
17-568.02                   35.03
17-602                      34.03
                            31.01;
17-604                      33.40;
                            33.55
17-605                      31.03
17-606                      31.04
17-606(2)                   31.04
17-607                      35.09
17-608                      35.11
17-609                      35.11
17-610                      31.05
17-611                      33.55
17-612                      33.55
                            35.03;
17-613                      36.04;
                            36.06—
                            36.08
                            10.15;
17-614                      36.04;
                            36.05;
                            36.08
17-614(3)                   36.05
17-615                      36.07
17-616                      36.05
17-701                      35.25
17-702                      35.08;
                            35.54
17-703                      35.06
17-706                      35.31
17-708                      35.04
17-709                      35.04
17-710                      35.07
17-711                      35.04
17-714                      35.05
17-715                      35.05
17-718                      32.20
17-720                      35.10
17-801                      32.10
17-802                      32.10
17-802.01                   32.10
17-803                      35.11
17-804                      31.10
17-805                      32.10
17-806                      32.10
17-807                      32.10
17-808                      32.10
17-810                      32.10
17-901                      53.004
                            53.003;
                            53.004;
17-902                      54.03— 54.06;
                            54.09;
                            54.13
17-902 through 17-904       54.01
17-906                      54.01
17-909                      54.01
17-919                      31.14
17-920                      131.04
                            50.04;
17-925.01                   53.002;
                            53.111
17-925.02                   53.110;
                            53.112
17-952                      32.09
17-953 et seq.              32.20
17-953                      152.026
17-953.01                   152.026
17-954                      152.026
17-966                      32.05
Chapter 17, Article 10      152.074
                            150.001;
17-1001                     150.065;
                            150.067
17-1002                     153.31
17-1003                     153.30;
                            153.31
17-1004                     153.31
18-131                      36.06
                            36.01;
                            91.04;
                            93.25;
18-132                      150.065;
                            150.067;
                            153.01;
                            153.30
18-305 through 18-312       33.56
18-412                      36.33
18-412.01                   35.03
18-412.02                   36.33
18-415                      55.18
                            50.04;
18-503                      53.005;
                            53.060
18-1001 through 18-1006     152.025
18-1214                     35.57
18-1216                     35.06
18-1303                     51.04—
                            51.07
18-1701                     31.03
18-1719                     115.01
                            10.99;
                            91.15;
                            91.17;
                            91.22;
                            91.23;
                            91.35;
18-1720                     112.06;
                            113.99;
                            130.02;
                            133.06;
                            150.031;
                            150.035;
                            150.999
                            10.99;
18-1722                     113.99;
                            150.035;
                            150.999
18-1722.01                  150.032;
                            150.035
18-1729                     72.19
18-1736                     72.30;
                            72.31
                            72.31;
18-1737                     72.32;
                            72.38
18-1738                     72.33
18-1738.01                  72.34
18-1738.02                  72.33;
                            72.34
                            72.31;
18-1739                     72.32;
                            72.35
18-1740                     72.36
18-1741                     72.37
18-1741.01                  72.30;
                            72.38
18-1741.04                  72.38
18-1741.06                  72.38
18-1743                     150.002
18-1748                     53.053;
                            152.064
18-1751                     152.002
18-1755                     152.026;
                            152.027
18-1756                     35.03
18-1801 through 18-1805     35.12
18-2101 through 18-2144     32.08
18-2102.01                  32.02
18-2147 through 18-2153     32.08
18-2438                     33.22
18-2501 through 18-2511     36.20
18-2501 through 18-2531     36.99
18-2512 and 18-2513         36.21
18-2516                     36.23
18-2517                     36.24
18-2518                     36.24
18-2519                     36.26
18-2520                     36.27
18-2521                     36.28;
                            36.30
18-2522                     36.29
18-2523 through 18-2526     36.30
18-2527 and 18-2528         36.31
18-2529 through 18-2531     36.32
18-2532 through 18-2535     36.99
18-2536                     36.33
18-2537                     36.33
18-2803                     35.35
18-2804                     35.35
18-2805                     35.35
18-2806                     35.35
18-2807                     35.35
18-2808                     35.35
18-3301                     31.14
19-613                      30.15
19-710                      91.17
19-901 et seq.              32.02;
                            32.03
19-901                      32.03
19-901 to 19-914            32.03
                            91.04;
                            93.25;
19-902                      150.065;
                            150.067;
                            153.16
19-903                      32.02
19-903 through 19-904.01    32.03
19-907                      32.03
19-908                      32.03
19-909                      32.03
19-910                      32.03
19-912                      32.03
19-912.01                   32.03
19-915                      36.08
19-916                      32.02
                            36.01;
19-922                      93.25;
                            150.065;
                            150.067
19-925 through 19-933       32.02;
                            152.074
19-926                      32.02
19-927                      32.02
19-928                      32.02
19-929                      32.02
19-930 through 19-933       32.02
19-1101                     31.04
19-1102                     31.03
19-1102                     31.03
19-1103                     31.03;
                            31.04
19-1104                     31.03
19-1301                     35.08
19-1302                     35.08
19-1303                     35.08
19-1304                     35.08
19-1305                     52.02
19-1309                     35.52
19-1310                     35.52
19-1311                     35.52
19-1312                     35.52
19-1404                     54.04—
                            54.11
19-2101 through 19-2106     51.20
19-2105                     51.08
19-2106                     51.02
19-2417 through 19-2419     152.043
19-2427                     152.003
19-2428 through 19-2431     152.002;
                            152.074
                            52.04;
19-2701                     53.003;
                            54.03
19-2902                     35.02
19-2903                     35.02
19-2904                     35.02
19-2905                     35.02
19-2906 through 19-2909     35.02
19-3701                     36.08
Chapter 23, Article 1       152.074
23-122                      31.03
23-378                      32.45
25-505.01                   34.10
25-510.02                   36.22
25-515                      36.22
25-1801                     50.03
25-21,149 through 25-21,164 36.22
25-21,275                   50.03
25-21,276                   50.03
25-21,277                   50.03
25-21,278                   50.03
25-2514                     36.22
25-2703                     36.01
28-109                      92.999
Chapter 28, Article 3       113.18
28-311.02                   134.05
28-311.03                   134.05
28-318                      134.01
28-318(6)                   134.04
Chapter 28, Article 4       113.18
28-431                      133.35
28-511.01                   130.09
28-512                      54.14;
                            130.06
28-514                      130.06
28-519                      93.03;
                            130.05
28-520                      130.01
28-521                      71.057;
                            130.01
28-523                      133.04
28-609                      132.01
28-610                      132.02
Chapter 28, Article 7       113.18
28-710 et seq.              134.01
Chapter 28, Article 8       113.18
28-801                      134.01
28-804                      134.02
28-805                      134.03
28-830                      134.01
28-831                      134.01
28-903                      132.03
28-904                      132.04
28-906                      132.05
28-907                      132.07
                            93.02;
                            93.04;
28-908                      93.06;
                            93.10;
                            132.06
Chapter 28, Article 10      113.18
28-1003                     134.04
28-1004                     92.012
28-1005                     92.012
28-1008                     92.006;
                            92.049
28-1009                     92.006
28-1012                     92.006
28-1013                     92.006
Chapter 28, Article 11      113.18
Chapter 28, Article 12      113.18
28-1202                     133.51
                            93.48;
28-1213                     93.62;
                            93.63
28-1213 through 28-1239     93.48
28-1229                     93.62;
                            93.63
28-1233                     93.62;
                            93.63
28-1233(3)                  93.62;
                            93.63
28-1235                     93.64
28-1239.01                  93.48
28-1241                     93.45;
                            93.48
28-1242                     93.46
28-1244                     93.45
28-1245                     93.45
28-1246 through 28-1250     93.47
28-1247                     93.48
28-1303                     133.05
28-1304                     133.03
                            91.17;
                            91.22;
28-1321                     91.23;
                            130.02;
                            133.01
28-1322                     131.05
28-1335                     133.52
28-1419                     133.20
28-1427                     133.20
28-1429.02                  133.22
28-1465                     32.67
28-1466                     32.67
28-1472                     32.67
29-215                      32.67
29-422 through 29-429       92.006
29-426                      72.17
Chapter 29, Article 8       92.031
29-4001 et seq.             134.06
29-4003                     134.06
29-4013                     134.06
29-4015 et seq.             134.06
32-101                      30.15;
                            Ch. 34
32-109                      30.01;
                            30.15
32-110                      34.03
32-115                      34.03
32-404                      34.01;
                            34.05
                            34.04;
32-405                      34.10;
                            36.30
32-533                      30.15
32-552                      30.15
32-553                      30.15
32-554                      30.15
32-556                      34.01
32-557                      30.15;
                            34.05
32-559                      34.04;
                            36.30
32-560                      30.02;
                            30.17
32-560 through 32-572       30.02;
                            30.17
32-561                      30.02;
                            30.17
32-562                      34.10
32-567 to 32-570            34.10
32-568                      30.02;
                            30.17
32-569                      30.17
32-574                      34.10
32-603                      30.01;
                            30.15
32-604                      30.15
32-606                      34.07
32-607                      34.07
32-608                      34.08;
                            34.09
32-615                      34.09
32-616                      34.09
32-617                      34.09
32-618                      34.09
32-621                      34.09
32-622                      34.07
32-625                      34.07
32-625(2)                   34.09
32-627                      34.07;
                            34.09
32-628                      34.09;
                            36.23
32-628 through 32-631       35.53
                            34.09;
32-629                      34.10;
                            36.24
                            34.09;
32-630                      34.10;
                            36.24
32-710                      34.09
32-802                      34.02;
                            35.53
32-918                      34.11
32-952 through 32-959       34.04
32-1202                     34.04
32-1301                     34.10
32-1302                     34.10
32-1303                     34.10
32-1304                     34.10
32-1305                     34.10
32-1306                     34.10
32-1307                     34.10
                            30.02;
32-1308                     30.17;
                            34.10
32-1309                     34.10
32-1524                     34.11
32-1525                     34.11
33-139.01                   32.22
33-141                      31.04
35-102                      32.22
35-103                      32.22
35-108                      32.22
35-514.02                   32.45
37-1254.01                  32.67
37-1254.02                  32.67
Chapter 39                  73.999
39-301                      131.03
39-302                      131.03
39-311                      71.049;
                            71.050
39-2512                     31.12;
                            31.13
43-248                      134.01
43-2,129                    133.20
44-4301 through 44-4339     33.01
44-4303                     33.01
45-623                      35.13
48-115                      32.22
49-801(16)                  10.05
49-1408                     33.56
49-1425                     33.56
49-1499.03                  33.56
49-1499.04                  33.56
49-14,102                   33.56
49-14,103.01                33.56
49-14,103.02                33.56
49-14,103.03                33.56
49-14,103.04                33.56
49-14,103.05                33.56
49-14,103.06                33.56
51-201                      35.53;
                            90.01
51-201 through 51-219       32.01;
                            90.02
51-201.01                   90.04
51-202                      32.01
51-204                      32.01
51-205                      90.02
51-207                      90.02
51-209                      90.01
                            90.02;
51-211                      90.03;
                            90.04
51-212                      90.04
51-213                      90.05
51-214                      90.06
51-215                      35.08
51-216                      35.08
51-501                      35.53
52-601.01 through 52-605    133.35
Chapter 53, Article 1       114.15
                            111.19;
                            113.01;
                            113.03;
                            113.15;
53-101 et seq.              113.17;
                            113.18;
                            113.20;
                            113.23—
                            113.26
53-103.01 through 53-103.51 113.01
53-116.01                   113.20
53-118                      113.47
53-123.04(3)                133.23
53-123.11(1)(c)             133.23
53-123.12                   111.19
53-124                      111.19;
                            113.22
53-124.01                   111.19
53-124.12                   113.22
53-124.15                   113.45
53-124.17                   111.19
53-125                      113.18
53-129                      111.19
53-131                      111.19
53-132                      111.19
53-132(h)                   113.16
53-133                      111.19;
                            113.45
53-134                      111.19
53-134.03                   111.19;
                            113.47
53-134.04                   113.26
53-135                      113.21
53-135.01                   111.19;
                            113.21
53-148                      113.23
53-167.02                   113.52
53-167.03                   113.52
53-168.06                   113.15
53-175                      113.17
53-177                      113.45
53-177.01                   113.45
53-178                      113.46
53-179                      113.48
53-180                      113.02
53-183                      113.49
53-184                      113.50
53-186                      113.03
53-186(2)                   113.03
53-186.01                   113.03
53-194.03                   113.17
53-1,101                    113.24
53-1,102                    113.25
53-1,115                    113.26
53-1,121                    113.04
54-601                      92.048
54-602                      92.048
54-603                      92.045
54-603(3)                   92.045
54-605                      92.046
54-606                      92.048
54-607                      92.002
54-617                      92.049
54-618                      92.049
54-619                      92.049
54-620                      92.049
54-621                      92.049
54-622.01                   92.049;
                            92.999
54-623                      92.049
54-907 through 54-912       92.007
54-911                      92.007
54-912                      92.007
Chapter 60                  73.999
Chapter 60, Article 1       73.083
60-101                      73.095
60-169                      133.35
Chapter 60, Article 3       73.083
                            35.57;
60-301                      73.083;
                            73.095;
                            133.35
60-301 to 60-3,258          71.072
60-302                      71.072
60-311                      71.072
60-321                      71.072
60-352.01                   72.30
60-376                      133.35
60-399                      71.072
60-3,104                    35.57
60-3,113                    72.31;
                            72.32
Chapter 60, Article 4       71.072;
                            73.083
                            70.04;
60-462                      73.083;
                            73.095
60-4,126                    73.046
60-4,163                    32.67
60-4,164                    32.67
                            71.040;
60-4,182                    71.042;
                            73.999
60-4,186                    71.072
Chapter 60, Article 5       73.083
60-505                      73.051
60-569                      73.083;
                            73.095
Chapter 60, Article 6       70.01
60-606 through 60-676       70.01
60-658.01                   71.010
                            70.03;
                            70.08;
                            71.004;
                            71.043;
                            71.044;
60-680                      71.048;
                            71.052;
                            71.053;
                            72.06;
                            72.10;
                            72.16;
                            Ch. 75
60-681                      71.001
60-682.01                   71.010;
                            71.999
60-683                      70.04
60-696                      71.009
60-697                      71.009
60-6,109                    71.004
60-6,110                    70.05
60-6,119                    70.06
60-6,121                    70.02
60-6,129                    71.006
60-6,130                    71.007
60-6,130(1)                 133.53
60-6,133                    71.045
60-6,134.01                 71.010
60-6,136                    71.045
60-6,138                    71.002
60-6,139                    71.046
60-6,140                    71.046;
                            71.048
60-6,142                    71.056;
                            73.001
60-6,148                    71.005
60-6,159                    71.004
60-6,161 through 60-6,163   71.004
60-6,165                    72.18
                            71.044;
60-6,166                    72.01;
                            93.05
60-6,167                    72.10;
                            72.11
60-6,168                    72.14
60-6,169                    71.043
60-6,178                    71.055
60-6,179                    71.051;
                            71.053
60-6,183                    71.046;
                            93.08
60-6,184                    93.07
60-6,185                    71.025
60-6,186                    71.026;
                            Ch. 74
60-6,187                    71.026;
                            71.028
                            71.026;
60-6,188                    71.028;
                            71.999
60-6,189                    71.027
60-6,190                    71.028;
                            Ch. 74
60-6,196                    32.67;
                            133.36
60-6,196(1)(b)              133.37
60-6,196(1)(c)              133.37
60-6,197                    32.67;
                            133.36
60-6,201                    133.36;
                            133.37
60-6,203                    133.36;
                            133.37
60-6,205 through 60-6,208   133.36
60-6,211.01                 32.67;
                            133.37
60-6,211.02                 32.67;
                            133.37
60-6,211.08                 113.03;
                            133.23
60-6,212                    71.041
60-6,213 through 60-6,218   71.040
60-6,219                    71.070;
                            73.015
60-6,220                    71.070
60-6,224                    71.070
60-6,235                    71.070
60-6,243                    71.052;
                            71.071
60-6,244                    71.070
60-6,250                    71.008
60-6,267                    70.09
60-6,278 through 60-6,282   73.017
60-6,285                    71.070
60-6,286                    71.052;
                            71.070
60-6,288                    71.008
60-6,304                    71.071
60-6,305                    71.026;
                            71.028
60-6,307                    73.015
60-6,308                    71.046
60-6,309                    73.095
60-6,310                    73.096
60-6,311                    73.097
60-6,312                    73.098
                            71.026;
60-6,313                    71.028;
                            73.097;
                            73.099
60-6,315                    73.001
60-6,316                    71.053
60-6,317                    73.001
60-6,318                    73.001
60-6,335                    73.030;
                            73.031
60-6,337                    73.031
60-6,338                    73.032
60-6,343                    73.033
60-6,347                    73.080;
                            73.083
60-6,348                    73.081;
                            73.082
60-6,352                    73.080
60-6,355                    73.045
60-6,358                    73.047
60-6,359                    73.049
60-6,360                    73.050
60-6,361                    73.051
60-6,362                    73.999
60-6,371                    71.070
60-1901                     133.35
60-1902                     133.35
60-1903                     133.35
60-1903.01                  133.35
60-1903.02                  133.35
60-1904                     133.35
60-1905                     133.35
60-1906                     133.35
60-1907                     133.35
60-1908                     133.35
60-1909                     133.35
60-1911                     133.35
60-2410                     133.35
69-170                      150.096
69-1707                     150.096
69-2427 et seq.             133.51
69-2429                     133.51
70-504                      36.33
70-624.04                   33.56
70-650.01                   36.33
70-650.02                   36.33
70-1601                     50.06
70-1602 et seq.             50.01
70-2103                     130.01
70-1601 through 70-1615     50.02
71-423                      113.04
71-1522                     32.06
71-1524 through 71-1526     32.06
71-1529                     32.06
71-1536                     32.06
71-1547                     32.06
71-1555                     153.16
71-1557                     153.16
71-1637                     35.53
71-1908 et seq.             134.06
71-4401                     92.025
71-4402                     92.026
71-4404                     92.026
71-4405                     92.026
71-4406                     92.027
71-4407                     92.027
                            92.008;
71-4408                     92.029;
                            92.053
71-4410                     92.031
71-4411                     92.029
71-4412                     92.031;
                            92.045
71-4601                     153.16
71-4603                     133.35
71-5101 et seq.             32.45
71-5301                     52.08
73-101 et seq.              35.03
74-596                      115.03
74-1323                     115.06
Chapter 75, Article 3       133.23
75-323 through 75-335       111.02
75-325                      111.06
75-329                      111.05
77-1359                     152.074
77-1601                     35.54
77-1606                     35.53
77-1632                     35.54
77-1633                     35.56
77-1725.01                  150.033
77-2201                     31.04
77-2201 through 77-2215     31.04
77-2202                     31.04
77-2209                     31.04
77-2210                     31.04
77-2212                     31.04
77-2337                     35.08
77-2341                     35.11
77-2362                     35.09
77-2363                     35.09
77-2364                     35.09
77-2365.01                  35.09;
                            35.10
77-2366                     35.09;
                            35.10
77-2386                     35.09
77-3442                     35.53;
                            90.01
77-3443                     35.53;
                            90.01
77-3444                     34.04;
                            35.53
80-203 through 80-205       36.33
81-201                      92.006
81-501.01 through 81-531    32.25
81-502                      93.25
81-506                      32.28
81-512                      32.25;
                            93.27
81-520.01                   93.34
81-829.65                   32.67
81-1438                     31.08
81-1439 through 81-1446     31.08
81-1444                     32.66
81-1501 through 81-1532     51.21
81-1517                     51.21
81-1519                     51.21
81-15,280 through 81-15,282 151.03
81-2005                     71.058
84-712 through 84-712.09    31.03;
                            31.04
84-712(2)                   31.03
84-1201 through 84-1227     31.03
84-1408                     33.16
84-1409                     33.15;
                            35.56
84-1410                     33.21
                            33.16;
84-1411                     33.17;
                            33.20
84-1411(7)                  33.16
84-1412                     33.22
84-1413                     33.24;
                            33.26
86-329 through 86-331       50.02
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
 
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-208              31.06
1-215              31.15
1-216              31.16
1-217              31.17
1-218              31.18
1-219              31.19
1-401              11.01
1-510              33.18
1-1001             36.20
1-1002             36.21
1-1003             36.22
1-1004             36.23
1-1005             36.24
1-1006             36.25
1-1007             36.26
1-1008             36.27
1-1009             36.28
1-1010             36.29
1-1011             36.30
1-1012             36.31
1-1013             36.32
1-1014             36.99
1-1015             36.33
1-1101             33.01
1-1201             33.02
1-1202             33.02
1-1203             33.02
1-1301             33.99
2-205              32.05
2-206              32.06
2-207              32.06
2-208              32.06
2-209              32.06
2-210              32.06
2-211              32.06
2-212              32.07
2-213              32.08
2-301              32.99
3-101              52.02
3-102              52.01
3-103              52.03
3-104              52.04
3-105              52.05
3-106              52.07
3-107              52.07
3-108              52.09
3-109              52.28
3-110              52.29
3-111              52.11
3-112              52.12
3-113              52.13
3-114              52.14
3-115              52.06
3-116              52.05
3-117              52.15
3-118              52.16
3-119              52.17
3-120              52.18
3-121              52.18
3-122              52.10
3-123              52.19
3-124              52.20
3-125              52.21
3-126              52.22
3-127              52.08
3-128              52.26
3-129              52.27
3-130              52.25
3-131              52.23
3-132              52.24
3-201              53.002
3-202              53.001
3-203              53.003
3-204              53.004
3-205              53.005
3-206              53.110
3-207              53.111
3-208              53.112
3-210              53.113
3-211              53.114
3-212              53.115
3-213              53.116
3-214              53.117
3-215              53.118
3-216              53.119
3-217              53.120
3-218              53.020
3-219              53.021
3-220              53.022
3-223              53.035
3-224              53.035
3-225              53.036
3-226              53.037
3-227              53.038
3-228              53.050
3-229              53.051
3-230              53.052
3-231              53.053
3-232              53.054
3-233              53.055
3-234              53.056
3-235              53.057
3-236              53.058
3-237              53.059
3-238              53.060
3-239              53.075
3-240              53.076
3-241              53.077
3-242              53.078
3-243              53.079
3-244              53.080
3-245              53.081
3-246              53.081
3-247              53.006
3-248              53.082
3-249              53.095
3-250              53.095
3-251              53.095
3-252              53.096
3-253              53.097
3-255              53.999
3-301              54.01
3-302              54.02
3-303              54.03
3-304              54.04
3-305              54.05
3-306              54.06
3-307              54.07
3-308              54.08
3-309              54.09
3-310              54.10
3-311              54.11
3-312              54.12
3-313              54.13
3-314              54.14
3-315              54.25
3-316              54.26
3-317              54.27
3-318              54.28
3-319              54.29
3-401              50.01
3-403              50.04
3-404              50.02
3-405              50.06
3-406              50.05
3-507              32.29
3-508              32.30
3-601              32.45
3-602              32.46
3-603              32.47
3-604              32.48
3-605              32.49
3-606              32.50
3-607              32.51
3-805              90.03
3-901              51.20
3-902              51.21
3-1001             50.99
4-103              91.04
4-201              51.01
4-202              51.01
4-203              51.01
4-203.01           51.01
4-204              51.02
4-205              51.03
4-206              51.04
4-207              51.05
4-208              51.06
4-209              51.07
4-301              91.15
4-302              91.15
4-303              91.16
4-304              91.17
4-305              91.18
4-401              91.35
4-402              91.19
4-403              91.19
4-404              91.19
4-405              91.19
4-406              91.19
4-407              91.19
4-408              91.36
4-409              91.20
4-410              91.20
4-411              91.21
4-412              91.22
4-413              91.23
4-414              91.37
4-501              91.99
5-101              70.01
5-201              71.001
5-203              70.03
5-205              71.004
5-206              71.004
5-207              71.004
5-208              71.004
5-213              71.049
5-214              71.050
5-217              Ch. 74, Sch. I
5-217.01           Ch. 74, Sch. I
5-217.02           Ch. 74, Sch. I
5-220              71.040
5-221              71.040
5-222              71.041
5-223              71.042
5-224              71.043
5-225              71.044
5-226              71.045
5-227              71.045
5-228              71.046
5-229              71.047
5-230              71.047
5-231              71.048
5-232              71.051
5-233              71.052
5-234              71.053
5-235              71.054
5-236              71.055
5-238              71.057
5-239              71.058
5-240              71.009
5-241              71.052
5-243              70.09
5-244              71.056
5-245              71.056
5-246              71.999
5-247              71.003;
                   71.999
5-248              71.010
5-249              71.010
5-304              70.08
5-305              70.08
5-401              71.070
5-402              71.071
5-403              71.071
5-404              71.072
5-405              71.072
5-406              71.070
5-501              73.001
5-502              73.015
5-503              73.016
5-503.01           73.017
5-503.02           73.999
5-504              73.080
5-505              73.081
5-506              73.082
5-507              73.083
5-508              73.030
5-509              73.031
5-510              73.032
5-511              73.033;
                   73.999
5-512              73.095
5-513              73.096
5-514              73.097
5-515              73.098
5-516              73.099
5-517              73.100
5-602              72.10
5-604              72.12
5-605              Ch. 75, Sch. I
5-611              72.11
5-613              72.09
5-614              72.30
5-614.01           72.31
5-614.02           72.32
5-614.03           72.33
5-614.04           72.34
5-614.05           72.35
5-614.06           72.36
5-614.07           72.37
5-614.08           72.38
5-614.09           72.39
5-615              72.18
5-616              72.19
5-617              72.08;
                   Ch. 75, Sch. I
5-618              Ch. 75, Sch. I
5-620              72.06
5-621              72.16
5-622              72.16
5-623              72.16
5-624              72.16
5-625              72.16
5-626              72.17
5-627              72.04
5-701              73.045
5-702              73.046
5-703              73.047
5-704              73.048
5-705              73.049
5-706              73.050
5-707              73.051
5-708              73.999
5-709              73.052
5-710              73.065
5-801              70.99
6-107              92.011
6-113              92.051
6-114              92.052
6-117              92.053
6-119              92.016
6-121              92.054;
                   92.999
6-122              92.015
6-123              92.070
6-124              92.071
6-125              92.072
6-126              92.073
6-127              92.074
6-128              92.075
6-129              92.076
6-130              92.077
6-131              92.078
6-132              92.079
6-133              92.080
6-202              92.013
6-204              92.014
6-205              92.012
6-206              92.012
6-207              92.012
6-208              92.999
6-302              130.05
6-303              130.06
6-307              131.06
6-308              133.51
6-312              133.04
6-317              133.06
6-323              134.02
6-324              134.03
6-325              134.04
6-328              132.07
6-333              133.52
6-335              130.08
6-338              133.53
6-339              130.09
6-341              130.04
6-342              133.22
6-343              133.36
6-344              133.37
6-345              134.05
6-346              134.06
6-347              134.06
6-348              134.06
6-401              10.99
6-402              10.99
7-101              93.01
7-102              93.02
7-103              93.03
7-104              93.04
7-105              93.05
7-106              93.06
7-107              93.07
7-108              93.08
7-109              93.09
7-110              93.10
7-201              93.25
7-202              93.26
7-203              93.27
7-204              93.28
7-205              93.29
7-206              93.30
7-207              93.31
7-208              93.32
7-209              93.33
7-211              93.34
7-301              93.60
7-302              93.61
7-303              93.62
7-401              93.62
7-402              93.63
7-403              93.64
7-404              93.45
7-405              93.46
7-406              93.47
7-407              93.48
7-408              93.62
7-501              93.99
8-102              152.004
8-105              152.025
8-110              152.026
8-111              152.002
8-112              152.003
8-113              152.027
8-114              152.028
8-205              152.042
8-206              152.044
8-207              152.045
8-301              152.063
8-310              152.069
8-311              152.070
8-312              152.071
8-313              152.072
8-314              152.073
8-315              152.074
8-317              152.061
8-501              152.999
9-201              150.001
9-203              150.003
9-406              150.035
9-501              150.065
9-502              150.066
9-503              150.067
9-601              150.080
9-602              150.081
9-603              150.082
9-604              150.083
9-605              150.084
9-701              150.999
9-702              150.999
10-103             113.16
10-116             113.50
10-118             113.51
10-130             113.52
10-201             111.01
10-202             111.02
10-203             111.03
10-204             111.04
10-205             111.05
10-206             111.06
10-207             111.07
10-208             111.08
10-209             111.09
10-210             111.10
10-301             114.01
10-302             114.02
10-303             114.03
10-304             114.04
10-401             151.01
10-402             151.02
10-403             151.03
10-404             151.04
10-405             151.05
10-406             151.06
10-407             151.07
10-408             151.07
10-409             151.07
10-410             151.07
10-411             151.08
10-412             151.09
10-413             151.10
10-414             151.11
10-415             151.12
10-416             151.13
10-417             151.14
10-418             151.15
10-419             151.16
10-420             151.17
10-421             151.18
10-422             151.19
10-501             150.095
10-502             150.096
10-601             112.01
10-602             112.02
10-603             112.03
10-604             112.04
10-605             112.05
10-606             112.06
10-701             51.08
10-801             55.01
10-802             55.02
10-803             55.03
10-804             55.04
10-901             55.15
10-902             55.16
10-903             55.17
10-904             55.18
10-905             55.19
10-906             55.20
10-907             55.21
10-908             55.22
10-1001            115.01
10-1002            115.02
10-1003            115.03
10-1004            115.04
10-1005            115.05
10-1006            115.06
10-1101            110.04
10-1113            110.15
10-1114            110.16
10-1115            110.17
10-1116            110.18
10-1117            110.18
10-1118            110.19
10-1119            110.20
10-1201            114.15
10-1202            114.16
10-1301            113.99
10-1302            113.99
11-101             153.01
11-201             153.15
11-202             153.16
11-301             153.30
11-302             153.31
11-401             153.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
201      5-1-1958    112.04
357      12-7-1976   153.01;
                     153.30
469      3-6-1984    54.08
496      5-6-1985    52.03
491      9-3-1985    55.19
514      4-7-1986    52.29
499      9-22-1986   72.04
504      11-4-1986   152.061
507      11-4-1986   133.06
508      12-2-1986   150.065
509      12-2-1986   55.18
512      3-3-1987    52.09
518      7-7-1987    91.15
522      11-3-1987   33.01
523      11-3-1987   73.045—
                     73.052
524      11-3-1987   152.002
525      11-3-1987   152.003
526      11-3-1987   152.074
527      11-3-1987   55.04
529      1-5-1988    32.05
532      4-5-1988    150.080—
                     150.084
534      6-7-1988    52.08
538      10-4-1988   32.07
539      10-4-1988   51.04—
                     51.07
540      10-4-1988   73.017;
                     73.999
541      10-4-1988   71.056;
                     71.999
542      10-4-1988   72.18
543      10-4-1988   92.012;
                     92.999
544      10-4-1988   93.45
545      10-4-1988   93.48
550      12-6-1988   53.118
551      12-6-1988   54.08
549      2-7-1989    52.29
553      2-7-1989    32.05
554      2-7-1989    52.09
557      5-2-1989    91.16
559      5-2-1989    110.04
565      12-5-1989   72.33
567      12-5-1989   93.63
576      9-4-1990    32.49
577      1-8-1991    54.08
585      6-4-1991    70.09
588      6-4-1991    92.012
589      6-4-1991    150.035
590      6-4-1991    114.02
596      11-5-1991   54.08
603      6-2-1992    72.33
604      6-2-1992    113.50
613      1-5-1993    52.27
614      1-5-1993    52.26
616      3-2-1993    54.08
617      3-2-1993    52.29
618      3-2-1993    53.112
619      3-2-1993    33.02
620      3-2-1993    33.02
621      3-2-1993    33.02
622      5-4-1993    33.18
626      8-3-1993    36.31
627      8-3-1993    72.33
628      8-3-1993    133.22
629      8-3-1993    Ch. 75, Sch. II
638      2-1-1994    Ch. 75, Sch. II
640      4-5-1994    Ch. 75, Sch. II
642      8-2-1994    110.04
648      8-2-1994    70.01
650      8-2-1994    71.054
651      8-2-1994    71.072
652      8-2-1994    71.072
653      9-6-1994    71.070
654      9-6-1994    73.001
655      9-6-1994    73.015
656      9-6-1994    73.017
657      9-6-1994    73.096
658      9-6-1994    73.097
659      9-6-1994    73.098
660      9-6-1994    73.099
661      9-6-1994    73.046
662      9-6-1994    72.10
665      10-4-1994   72.31;
                     72.33
666      10-4-1994   72.32;
                     72.33
667      10-4-1994   72.30;
                     72.33
668      10-4-1994   72.33;
                     72.36
669      10-4-1994   72.33;
                     72.38
670      10-4-1994   72.39
671      10-4-1994   133.36
672      10-4-1994   133.37
673      10-4-1994   134.05
674      10-4-1994   93.62
675      10-4-1994   93.63
676      10-4-1994   93.62
677      10-4-1994   152.025
678      10-4-1994   113.52
679      10-4-1994   153.31
680      11-1-1994   52.29
681      11-1-1994   53.112
682      11-1-1994   54.08
683      12-6-1994   52.29
684      12-6-1994   53.112
685      12-6-1994   52.07
689      6-6-1995    32.49
690      6-6-1995    32.50
692      7-11-1995   53.112
694      8-1-1995    52.25
697      8-1-1995    133.06
703      9-5-1995    91.18
704      10-3-1995   51.01
705      10-3-1995   133.04
706      10-3-1995   93.34
707      10-3-1995   152.027
708      10-3-1995   152.028
710      10-3-1995   153.16
715      3-5-1996    54.08
718      10-1-1996   33.18
722      10-1-1996   50.02
724      10-1-1996   71.072
725      11-5-1996   71.072
726      11-5-1996   71.070
727      11-5-1996   72.31
728      11-5-1996   72.30
729      11-5-1996   72.33
730      11-5-1996   72.34
731      11-5-1996   72.35
732      12-3-1996   72.36
733      12-3-1996   72.37
734      12-3-1996   72.38
735      12-3-1996   152.025
736      12-3-1996   152.026
737      12-3-1996   152.070
741      5-6-1997    54.08
742      7-1-1997    32.49
746      7-1-1997    Ch. 74, Sch. I
753      10-7-1997   71.003;
                     71.999
760      1-6-1998    50.01
763      1-6-1998    110.15—
                     110.20
761      2-3-1998    72.30
766      6-9-1998    52.23
771      9-8-1998    114.15
772      9-8-1998    114.16
773      11-3-1998   132.07
774      11-3-1998   71.010
775      11-3-1998   71.010
778      12-1-1998   152.025
781      4-1-1999    110.04
782      4-6-1999    133.37
783      4-6-1999    50.06
784      6-1-1999    110.04
786      7-6-1999    54.08
787      9-7-1999    52.29
788      9-7-1999    53.112
789      10-10-1999  150.001
789      10-10-1999  150.003
791      11-2-1999   Ch. 74, Sch. I
792      12-8-1999   52.03;
                     52.07
794      3-7-2000    33.18
795      3-7-2000    92.013
801      11-14-2000  Ch. 74, Sch. I
805      6-12-2001   153.16
                     10.99;
                     32.99;
                     33.99;
                     50.99;
                     70.99;
808      12-11-2001  91.99;
                     93.99;
                     113.99;
                     150.999;
                     152.999;
                     153.99
809      1-8-2002    71.003;
                     71.999
822      4-8-2003    54.08
830      12-10-2003  52.29
831      12-10-2003  53.112
834      9-14-2004   70.09
837      2-8-2005    54.08
843      6-14-2005   53.051
851      3-14-2006   52.29
852      3-14-2006   53.112
855      5-9-2006    32.49
856      6-13-2006   110.04
857      6-13-2006   134.06
859      3-13-2007   54.08
860      3-13-2007   Ch. 75, Sch. II
                     91.15—
863      9-11-2007   91.23;
                     91.35—
                     91.37
866      4-15-2008   110.16
867      6-10-2008   54.08
                     91.16;
868      11-11-2008  91.22;
                     91.23
869      12-10-2008  52.21
870      1-13-2009   153.15
872      7-14-2009   54.08
874      7-14-2009   73.046;
                     73.065
878      1-12-2010   54.08
881      4-6-2010    152.042
883      6-8-2010    152.042
885      8-10-2010   152.042
                     111.01;
884      9-14-2010   111.03;
                     111.09
886      10-12-2010  93.47
888      2-8-2011    54.08
890      2-8-2011    32.49
891      6-7-2011    153.15
892      12-12-2011  50.01;
                     50.04
893      2-14-2012   54.08
                     92.011;
                     92.015;
                     92.016;
895      6-12-2012   92.053;
                     92.054;
                     92.070—
                     92.080;
                     92.999
898      10-9-2012   52.23
900      4-9-2013    52.29
901      4-9-2013    53.112
902      5-14-2013   52.24
903      6-11-2013   150.080
                     50.05;
904      8-13-2013   52.03;
                     54.03
905      11-12-2013  153.15
906      11-12-2013  153.15
907      12-3-2013   32.49
909      2-11-2014   54.08
910      4-8-2014    91.21
912      3-10-2015   54.08
918      2-9-2016    54.08
917      3-28-2016   153.15
921      10-11-2016  52.07
926      5-9-2017    32.08
928      6-13-2017   54.08
929      6-13-2017   52.29
930      6-13-2017   53.112
933      11-14-2017  152.004
938      6-12-2018   73.045—
                     73.052; 73.999
939      7-10-2018   91.16
940      12-11-2018  73.065
941      12-11-2018  73.046;
                     73.048
942      2-27-2019   53.004
943      3-12-2019   54.08
946      10-8-2019   52.23
947      3-10-2020   54.08
956      10-12-2021  52.29
957      10-12-2021  53.112
960      2-8-2022    54.08
961      3-8-2022    33.18
                     71.004;
962      3-8-2022    72.08;
                     72.09;
                     72.12; Ch. 75, Sch. II
963      7-12-2022   54.02
965      10- -2022   31.19
967      1-10-2023   30.18
973      10-10-2023  52.29
974      10-10-2023  53.112
978      3-12-2024   33.18
979      5-14-2024   54.08
980      6-11-2024   52.29
981      6-11-2024   53.112
                    
 
